The following lines contains multiple episode transcripts of a Dungeons and Dragons game played by a group of players. Each episode transcript is delimited by [START OF EPISODE] and [END OF EPISODE]. The transcripts are followed by a question about the game statistics. Answer the question based on the transcripts. Do not try to guess, estimate or approximate the result. Do not ask the user for clarification or follow-up. Do step-by-step reasoning if needed. Return the final answer in \boxed{{}}. 

The following lines contain the mapping between player names and character names.
Matt plays the character DM.
Laura plays the character Vex'ahlia.
Travis plays the character Grog.
Marisha plays the character Keyleth.
Orion plays the character Tiberius.
Taliesin plays the character Percy.
Liam plays the character Vax'ildan.
Sam plays the character Taryon.
Ashley plays the character Pike.
Felicia plays the character Lyra.
Mary plays the character Zahra.
Wil plays the character Thorbir.
Will plays the character Kashaw.
Kit plays the character Lillith.
Jason plays the character Garthok.
Chris hardwick plays the character Gern.
Chris perkins plays the character Shale.
Patrick plays the character Kerrek.
Noelle plays the character Tova.
Jon plays the character Lionel.
Darin plays the character Sprigg.
Joe plays the character Arkhan.

Use this mapping when answering the questions below.

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello and good evening, everyone. Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us voice-actors get together and play Dungeons and Dragons-- crazy, fun, nerdy times. So we are unfortunately missing Travis Willingham again this evening, because he's a pussy and had to go see Avengers tonight, so feel free to let him know on Twitter. But anyway, we have a really fun, action-packed adventure-- as if last week's wasn't tension enough. Let's see how the rest of the group manages to recover from their climactic battle at the top of Emberhold. But in the meantime, let's go ahead and give you an intro and some of the character backgrounds before we come back. [dramatic music]
Ashley: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream: a dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal though divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time, Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. (roar, crunch) After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Travis: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (chuckle) (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and (chuckle) shiny things! Also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this-- well, this terrified little thing. And his disobedience cost him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die, exiled from his herd. It was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for lady favors. Also ale!
Marisha: A first impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. (chuckle) Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder) Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally! (soft chuckle) Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader to be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself, not knowing when, or if, she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays on repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attentions to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gunshot)
Sam: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he learned the ways of the world, and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down, Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood, unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia. From a politically respected family, at the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months, I would frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later, I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to things sometimes. I've also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite friendly for a dragonborn!
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Syngorn. But their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didn't last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. (roar) With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life's challenges in his own particular way, often by side-stepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn't enough, (knife scraping) the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don't fully accept her. Born of a human mother and an elven father who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of ten when the two were taken from their mother and brought to live in Syngorn, the isolated elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind, and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods; she preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear-- her own stolen Trinket-- to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also, he is adorable, and gives expert massages.
Matt: Hey guys, welcome back. While we are missing Travis, it's totally fine, Avengers is a fantastic film. It's a wonderful film and hope he doesn't spoil anything for us in his return, but he is missed. Travis, we miss you. We'll have you back next week, hopefully.
Orion: I'm going to spoil the movie for everybody they win!
Taliesin: But do they?
Laura: But do they?
Matt: I don't know. It's Joss Whedon (laughs)
Orion: I didn't say who 'they' were.
Matt: Oh, that's true. All right, so, welcome everyone. For those of you who's this the first time, (laughs) buckle up for some interesting-- So we're a bunch of voice actors who play Dungeons & Dragons and this is our campaign we've been running for a while. To give you a little heads-up on the story so far, the party was hired to find an individual named Lady Kima, and she is a halfling paladin. The platinum dragon Bahamut is her deity
Sam: And we found her!
Matt: You did. I was going to get to that. (all laugh)
Matt: So they went seeking her in caverns beneath the dwarven city of Kraghammer. After much fighting and surviving, they manage to find their way to a duergar fortress called Emberhold, where they found Lady Kima captive beneath. They released her and then, using her help, assaulted the throne room at the top and managed to slay King Murghol of the duergar. However, in the process, Grog, our intrepid barbarian, was kidnapped by the queen mage before she could be slain, who then also disintegrated a portion of the roof, letting an entire cavalcade of molten rock into the fortress. The party then had to make a heated escape. However, a number of the party members, due to the gaze of the two basilisks that were kept in the throne room as pets, Lady Kima and our Tiberius Stormwind, our dragonborn sorcerer, are currently stone. Dragging them out of the fortress as the magma began to fill the interior, a very deft escape was made, aside from Vax unfortunately getting his foot temporarily submerged in the lava, taking some serious damage to his foot. The party manage to make their way outside of the Emberhold proper, and you've all taken a moment to breathe at this point, realizing that thankfully, for the most part, you've all survived. Aside from the missing party member and a few in a state of flux at the moment. So, picking up there where we left off. You're all breathing heavily. The sincerity of the battle has just come over you. The adrenaline's still pumping through your system.
Laura: Your foot is melted off.
Liam: It's kind of there (groans).
Matt: Mostly. There's some... You can see four of the five toes.
Laura: Oh, that's not bad. It's four out of five.
Matt: About three and a half.
Liam: Did I lose the big or the small?
Matt: (laughs) This would be the small.
Ashley: Oh, you can do without the pinkie.
Marisha: Your balance is probably a little wonky.
Matt: Yeah, a little bit.
Liam: Clears that athlete's foot, though. Gone.
Matt: Sure enough.
Sam: Is anyone following us? Can we do a quick check around and just see?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Perception check? Starting it off with a 19.
Matt: Glancing around, you start hearing various duergar screams from above as the individuals that were still inside the fortress are in the process of trying to get out, or in the process of slowly melting in the molten rock. What you do also notice is that off towards the bottom base of the stronghold, a number of duergar that reside in the buildings that surround the exterior of Emberhold proper are mounting arms and charging up towards the stronghold to give aid to wherever this seeming, loud shouting and screaming is coming from
Laura: Can they see us?
Marisha: Does anyone seem to be paying attention to us?
Matt: No, they're far enough away where you don't think it's an issue, and you're off to the side, for the moment. But you do see probably close to 30 to 40 duergar are currently swarming out the small city, making their way towards Emberhold.
Marisha: So right now they're focused on the chaos of the temple?
Matt: From what you can see.
Sam: We should get out of here.
Laura: There was a path further down that led further on into the tunnels. I think we should follow that.
Marisha: Well, hang on. Grog can't be far, right?
Sam: He could be in another dimension.
Marisha: No, he can only be a thousand feet away.
Sam: Says who?
Marisha: They used the spell Dimension Door that Tiberius has.
Laura: So we hope he used Dimension Door.
Sam: I have a spell that can go to another dimension (chuckles).
Marisha: Well, I remember the gods on high telling us last week that we recognized the spell that was used.
Sam: By the way, this is the best conversation we've ever had with Tiberius. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh, Tiberius.
Marisha: Aw man, I feel that comes back to bite us in the ass later (nervous laugh) because he is still conscious, right?
Matt: No.
Laura: He has no idea what's happening.
Matt: He's in darkness. He can't hear. He's not conscious.
Sam: If Grog is close, we still need to get out of the way of these 30 people. So let's go hide.
Laura: We still need to hide. And heal.
Taliesin: Let's at least follow the path, find a place where we can hide, and recuperate.
Laura: Around the corner or something. Can we stealth further down?
Matt: You can try to. You currently are carrying two large solid stone statues with you, so it's definitely possible, but you're going to have to come up with a creative way of doing so.
Taliesin: Grog had the rug, didn't he?
Matt: Grog had the entire bag of holding.
Taliesin: Shit!
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and cast Pass Without a Trace on the party.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Percy, I think you and I are on Tiberius duty.
Taliesin: Yes. (sighs) Okay.
Sam: If we do not move, will this 30 duergar mass hit us at some point?
Matt: You can find out.
Sam: Oh, Jesus (laughs)
Orion: It's like asking the future.
Laura: Can I use my robe of infinite twine, which I have on my person in another game before. Because it's connected to my rope. Can I use that and tie it around Kima and hook it to Trinket so he can drag Kima along?
Matt: You can.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Very clever.
Matt: So I will say for this circumstance as you guys are preparing this: casting the spell, beginning dragging the stone. The group make an initiative check.
Sam: We took too much time!
Laura: We should just run.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: Yeah, you have some flashing, there we go.
Marisha: That's been a kind die to you.
Matt: So, 20 plus whatever your initiative modifier is.
Taliesin: 27.
Matt: 27.
Marisha: 13.
Orion: Who cares.
Sam: Ten.
Ashley: 12.
Laura: 17.
Liam: 15.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Distract them. Get them away from us.
Matt: You guys begin to drag the stone, or (chuckles) your two stone companions across the jagged obsidian floor in this deep, dark cavern. The heat from the nearby lava fall is still causing you to sweat profusely, and you're sore from the previous battle you just endured. Those of you who are wounded, you can feel the stretch of the muscles and tearing of what sinew has taken damage in the process. As you begin to pull, parallel to this duct of lava that pours off the side of Emberhold, you keep low so that you aren't actually blocking the light source, which would be a very keen visual to anything that's looking in that direction from a distance, but you slowly make your way across. At this point, the duergar have not been able to get there before you guys move off from the side, so they haven't caught up to the position you were previously, but they're beginning to swarm around the sides, and you see them yelling at each other and shouting commands. Some of them are starting to grab large rocks and fill in areas of the stronghold. Some of them you can see are robed individuals begin casting spells. You can see portions of other stone walls beginning to mount up and try and block the flow from the interior and exterior of Emberhold. However, you guys are still within eyesight, technically, of any duergar on that side of the fortress, so I'm going to ask everyone now to make a stealth check. Those that are pulling the statues with disadvantage.
Laura: So that's Trinket.
Orion: Plus ten.
Laura: But we all add plus ten?
Matt: Correct. To the final roll.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: I have a question. If I have advantage for other reasons-- I have a cloak of elvenkind which gives me advantage-- does the advantage and disadvantage cancel out into one?
Matt: They do. Your foot being wounded, though, is a disadvantage right now.
Liam: Right.
Matt: So that then goes back down to disadvantage.
Sam: Can't win with this guy.
Matt: Just for this circumstance, unfortunately. You're dragging a statue with a partially melted foot right now.
Taliesin: Liam, it doesn't matter.
Marisha: You still have plus ten to the roll because Pass Without a Trace.
Matt: So?
Sam: 14.
Matt: Plus the ten?
Sam: That's including the ten.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: 22.
Taliesin: 11.
Ashley: 20. That's my low roll.
Laura: That's 20 for Trinket and 29 for me.
Liam: 25.
Matt: All right, so you keep hunched low, slowly (stone grinding noise) dragging these stone obelisks of individuals across the jagged floor. You seemingly do so without any of the duergars' eyes catching you through the low light of the cavern. Partially due to the fact that you guys are doing a pretty decent job and partially the fact they're more obsessed that the central piece of their fortress right now is essentially about to be completely filled with molten rock. About 20, 25 minutes or so, you manage to pull just past where the lava flow dips down into what looks like a small opening in the flooring, and you are past the immediate heat of the magma river. You are now pressed up against the wall of the cavern as it begins to twist around and head downward, further deeper into this subterranean mountainous space. You're all beaten, you're all sore, and currently, what do you want to do?
Taliesin: Keyleth, can you cover the entrance to where we are to give us a little bit more of a stealthy--
Marisha: No.
Laura: No more spells?
Marisha: I am exhausted. I can't do anything else right now.
Liam: And what's the terrain? Is it just flat out out in the open to see, or is it scoured with ins and outs? Peaks and valleys?
Matt: It's the same type of topography you've encountered when you first entered this giant cavern. So you can see large, crooked black spires of obsidian rock shooting up and curving towards the ceiling. It's all over the place.
Marisha: I can make another Hallucinatory Terrain. I can do that still.
Laura: Okay, maybe you can make it--
Marisha: Can I make it to where it just looks like a wall?
Matt: How long does it last?
Marisha: I think Hallucinatory Terrain lasts an hour, if I think about it. Books, books, where's my book?
Laura: Can I look around and and see if there's anywhere that looks like we could hide, tuck in between rocks or something where we wouldn't be visible?
Taliesin: Please.
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception.
Laura: Oh wait, I get an advantage.
Matt: Because you are in the Underdark, correct.
Laura: 20.
Marisha: It lasts for 24 hours.
Sam: 24 hours!
Taliesin: Put a lava flow in front of us.
Sam: But you have to be concentrating the whole time. And you can't. You can't go to sleep.
Laura: 20.
Matt: As she's glancing at that, you make your way about ten minutes away from the area where the rest of the group is currently gathered, keeping a very very close eye on the topography of the wall of the cavern as it slowly curves around and further in that direction. You do manage to find portions of the wall that jut out and leave these small pockets. They themselves might not be super safe for a long period of time, but they give you a little bit of--
Laura: Cover.
Matt: Little bit of cover, depending on how well you were to dress. You might be able to see few individuals discovering you if you were to stay there.
Laura: Okay. Let's do that.
Marisha: It's not a concentration spell. It just takes a minute to cast and it lasts for 24 hours. So I'm going to go ahead and cast it and make it look like there's just a wall with another lava flow that's come out, and is starting to happen.
Matt: Okay, so as you walk back to notify the party, you watch as a portion of the mountain seemingly out of nowhere, extends, and a lava flow appears, pouring out of the wall.
Marisha: Wait, was someone not inside?
Sam: No, we're all in.
Matt: She was out and about while you did this.
Laura: I was searching for another place to hide.
Liam: It's fine. It's an illusion. Vax pokes his head through the illusionary lava and goes, We're in here.
Laura: Oh! Lovely.
Matt: So your heart rate eventually normalizes. You do have a decent pocket of space here that as long as nothing attempts to walk into the wall, you should be okay to rest here.
Taliesin: So we have some time. Let's regroup.
Laura: I think we should probably--
Taliesin: Sleep in shifts.
Marisha: Wait, here's what I'm afraid of. If we sleep we could lose Grog's trail. He could be nearby right now.
Taliesin: We're not much use to anyone right now.
Sam: Let's just make a decision right now to leave Grog and continue on.
Ashley: No!
Sam: Let's just forget about him. He was a good friend.
Laura: What?!
Sam: We'll have a toast to him.
Laura: Scanlan!
Ashley: Scanlan!
Sam: We'll sing about songs of his memory.
Marisha: You are shitting with us, right?!
Sam: Within a few days we'll forget he ever existed.
Taliesin: Scanlan, no one else wants to go to a whorehouse with you. You'll be going to whorehouses alone.
Sam: All right, fine.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: Here's another option. My foot hurts, but I'm not too bad. How are you?
Laura: (sighs) I'm okay.
Liam: We could go look.
Laura: Or maybe I can use my tracking and see if I can catch a scent. Grog does smell.
Marisha: I can use my beast sense; that is one more thing I can still do. I could theoretically-- We could use Trinket.
Liam: We need to undo the stone that has taken over Tiberius and Kima.
Taliesin: Do I have the necessary tools to synthesize a potion out of the basilisk blood?
Matt: You can certainly try. It's a very ramshackle set-up. You do not have an alchemical set, but you can certainly attempt to, using a small fire, a couple of your general smelting tools you use for your metal work. You could attempt to distill it down, but that would be a combination of a tinkering roll on your point, followed up by somebody else's medicine roll to attempt to properly prepare it.
Laura: Are all of Tiberius's things stone with him?
Matt: Yes.
Ashley: I'm going to walk over to Tiberius and cast Greater Restoration on him.
Matt: Okay. So as you're having this discussion. Tiberius, you briefly go from this moment in the heat of combat where you feel your muscles intensify and tensing up and not answering to your mind's command as you look up angrily at a series of duergar that have just been blown up by a fireball, to cold taking yourself. And as the cold fades, you are now in the center of a gargantuan cavern surrounded by all of your friends. You guys watch as Tiberius's form fades in through the stone.
Marisha: Tiberius!
Ashley: Tiberius!
Laura: Good job Pike!
Sam: I was so worried about you!
Taliesin: Or we could cast a spell. That also works well.
Orion: (Dwarven accent) What the hell is going on?
Ashley: I didn't know if that was going to work.
Marisha: But that the only time you can do that, right?
Laura: Wait, she can't do that again? You can't do it again for Kima.
Ashley: I have another 5th level now, so I could do it again.
Laura: And once we rest, you'll have it again?
Orion: (Dwarven accent) Whoa. What happened to all the other little dwarves?
Sam: You don't have to do the accent anymore.
Laura: You probably should keep your voice down, Tiberius.
Orion: Well, this is just how I sound.
Ashley: No. We already got through. We're on the other side. You don't have to act like a god anymore.
Laura: Grog is missing, actually.
Orion: (Dwarven accent) Oh, great.
Laura: And the queen took him.
Sam: Are you stuck like this?
Orion: No, I could change back anytime I want, but I really like how I look. (all laugh)
Ashley: Are we going to rest?
Sam: Wait, but what about Kima?
Marisha: We have to find Grog!
Laura: We have to find Grog but we have no spells. If we do find him, we can't do anything!
Sam: Can you unstone Kima now or?
Ashley: I can, but then I wouldn't have another 5th level.
Orion: (Dwarven accent) Clarota, what do you think we should do?
Matt: Clarota, who is currently like staring at the statue of Kima, you can see there's a brief bead of thought behind Clarota's eyes and the voice sinks into the rest of your minds simultaneously. "We may be able to leave her here for safekeeping."
Orion: I knew you were going to say that. A different option. Oh, and thank you, Pike.
Ashley: You're welcome, Tiberius. (all laugh)
Matt: "If you insist on bringing her, then we should do it soon. We should not be leaving anything behind. Trace of our passage."
Liam: Where did your kin take our big friend?
Matt: Clarota thinks for a second and says, "It was not my kin that took him but the duergar. If anything, I imagine he might be residing within that infernal city, though if they've taken him elsewhere I do not know the way of the ash-skins."
Orion: But Kima does.
Laura: We should wake her up.
Orion: Pike, you can do it one more time and take a little rest, right?
Ashley: I am going to walk on over to Kima. Touch her. Cast Greater Restoration again.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Where do you touch her? (laughs)
Ashley: I touch her arm.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Don't cheapen this.
Matt: Classy. As you reach out, the divine energy emanates from Pike's hand that begins to cascade across Kima's form. Kima, who is in mid battle, with her greatsword in the air, as soon as her flesh returns to her, she finishes her swing.
Ashley: I put my shield up!
Matt: However, it does (ping) into the side of your shield and you deflect the blow and you see Kima for a second is like, (panting slowing to normal breathing).
Liam: Easy! Easy!
Ashley: Calm down!
Matt: She throws the blade down on the ground and goes, "I am so sorry."
Ashley: It's okay! You were mid-swing, I get it. We are fine it was just a shield. We're fine.
Matt: She reaches around and she pulls her symbol of Bahamut out from her around her neck and just clutches it for a second and says, "What happened?"
Laura: You were turned to stone, the king got killed, the queen took Grog, we don't know where.
Sam: And Clarota was really helpful to us.
Laura: Actually, Clarota got you out of that castle alive.
Matt: She turns around and glares at Clarota briefly with a look of confusion and mistrust and Clarota just goes-- (all laugh)
Liam: You honestly would not be here if it weren't for the illithid. It's true.
Matt: She glances back at you and gives under her breath, "And there's a good chance none of us may be here if it gets its way down the road. (louder) Nevertheless, I thank you. It is good to know at least we took one of their top champions down. The fact that the queen still exists is worrisome, as at least from what I seemed to gather she had the true reign over most of the duergar down here."
Orion: Do you know where she would be at?
Matt: "Where did she escape? How did she take him?"
Liam: She disappeared with our goliath friend.
Laura: (gasps) Oh my gosh. Wait, did I Hunter's Mark the queen?
Liam: Yes, you did.
Laura: Did I?
Taliesin: You did.
Laura: I can use my Hunter's Mark to track her!
Sam: You can? (all cheer)
Sam: How long does it last and how does it work?
Liam: But that was just 30 minutes ago.
Sam: I know, but we all have to rest.
Laura: It maintains for up to eight hours!
Sam: Eight hours, but we have to rest!
Ashley: Because we need to heal. I am pretty low.
Sam: I'm at two.
Ashley: You're at two?!
Marisha: Okay. Theory? Proposition? Proposal. What if we use your Hunter's Mark, figure out where she is, get there, camp out nearby, tackle it in the morning?
Laura: Can I use my Hunter's Mark to find out where she is and then we rest and go there?
Matt: You can attempt that.
Ashley: What if we took a short rest?
Laura: Wait, wait, wait. Let's just find out where she is first.
Ashley: What if we just took a seven-hour nap? (all laugh)
Ashley: Because that's all really anyone sleeps anyway.
Taliesin: I think six hours is about what it takes.
Matt: Six to eight hours is the general long rest period that I would allow for that.
Laura: Okay.
Ashley: Okay.
Liam: I think we should all rest for a moment. I think Vex'ahlia and I should go out for an hour or two, just to see which direction-- I mean, they are not going to back to Emon.
Laura: I've got Hunter's Mark! Just stay put, Footless! (all laugh)
Orion: Wait a minute. What happened to your toe?
Sam: You're not stealth anymore. You got a busted foot. You're at disadvantage on everything.
Liam: I was pretty awesome 30 minutes ago. Now I'm just slightly less awesome.
Sam: Can we at least heal you up, before you go?
Laura: Yes. Just give us one second. Can I use the freaking Hunter's Mark?
Sam: How does it work?
Laura: I don't know!
Matt: So you take a moment, you step beyond the boundary of the illusion momentarily, close your eyes and concentrate on that small blip of nature based divine energy that you lent and grappled onto Queen Ulara with. You take a moment and concentrate and you recall her face, you recall, strangely, her scent. In a weird way, the bestial nature of your connection with Trinket and nature, scent is a very strong means of tracking and the scent of a duergar is a very terrible mix between salty brine and earth.
Liam: Like Axe for Men?
Matt: Essentially, yeah, yeah. It's Ye Olde Axe. You concentrate on this and you recall the stronghold, you begin to see a trace where all of a sudden her path in the stronghold is fading and is cold. A new path has opened up in the center of the duergar city at the base of the stronghold. It seems to have moved slightly in that direction, but you can't pinpoint where, and is currently at rest somewhere in that vicinity.
Sam: She is still close.
Laura: (whispers) The city, they're close. (louder) So that is right in front of the keep?
Marisha: Wait. Are they in an underground base?
Laura: They are in the city.
Matt: Essentially, where the cavern kind of rises up and meets the wall, Emberhold is at the top of that rising of the ground, and Emberhold lies there, where all the lava pours down and trickles down. You guys are off to the side. This whole portion of the floor that crawls up to Emberhold is covered in duergar buildings. It is a small city that surrounds it. She resides somewhere in the center of that.
Marisha: So we're on the same level as them or are they above us?
Matt: They are a little bit above. You guys are at a lower point, as the actual ground you follow curves around and descends.
Sam: But once we walk out of here we will be at the same level.
Marisha: I have a theory. I've a new skill that I've recently learned and was practicing a lot when I was with the Earth Ashari while we were gone for the past six months. They taught me the ways of the earth elementals.
Orion: Oh, that's fun.
Marisha: So. And as an earth-- but I am still new at it.
Ashley: That's okay, we all start somewhere.
Marisha: Thank you, Pike.
Ashley: You're welcome.
Marisha: Thank you. I mean I am a little self-conscious about it still, but I can travel through the earth.
Laura: And pop up, perhaps, where she is?
Orion: (Dwarven accent) Ooh, like a little gopher.
Laura: All of us? Or just you?
Marisha: It is not a burrowing thing, right?
Matt: You glide through the earth.
Liam: More like a Shadowcat kind of thing?
Matt: Essentially.
Laura: Is it all of us or just you?
Marisha: Just me. But I could get inside.
Laura: Well, but then you will be alone, surrounded by duergar and Grog.
Marisha: Well, I am not talking about right now.
Ashley: Could we put invisibility on her?
Marisha: If we do some sort of flanking thing.
Liam: Well that does sound useful.
Taliesin: It is. It is going to be useful.
Marisha: I am wondering if we can make a tunnel, though. I can theoretically-- okay, theoretically we could rest and I could keep all of my spells and use all of my magical focus to tunnel us out, depending on how far we are going. We can do an underground approach
Liam: But concretely, right now we need nappies.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Let's sleep.
Marisha: But what if they leave while we sleep?
Liam: But we are essentially powerless.
Taliesin: And what are we going to do if we find them?
Laura: I'm going to only sleep for a little bit, cause I didn't use all my spells I only need to rest for half the amount of time, maybe.
Matt: It doesn't work that way. (all laugh)
Matt: A solid six hours you'd probably be able to, since you guys are in a hidden area you'll feel more comfortable, depending on how you set your bedding here you could probably do it in six hours.
Laura: I think we'll be fine. Because she needs to rest as well. We hurt her pretty badly.
Liam: I think it is safe to assume she's brought Grog back to her seat of power. Why would she go anywhere else? She's at her strongest where she is.
Taliesin: I think they're staying.
Sam: We're going to rest.
Liam: Sleep.
Marisha: Okay. All right.
Laura: We've got to sleep, Keyleth.
Ashley: I know. You're right. I see what you're saying, but we need to...
Sam: Grog will be fine.
Ashley: He's at a two!
Marisha: I'm so mad at him. Why'd he get stolen?
Matt: Kima comes over, Kima puts her hand out a little bit and says, "It's all right, he's a strong one, he can handle himself. If I could survive what I've been through, he can do far better than that. Rest is good. I think we need to take some time, discuss our plan of attack, our current direction, and decide on how we'll move forward." She glances briefly over at Clarota, who's now further back towards the wall just sitting in this meditative state. "So. Let us rest."
Taliesin: Brilliant idea.
Liam: One last thing before we lay our heads down for the night. Pike, do you have any salve or anything you could help me put on my foot, or could your god help with my little toe?
Marisha: I could help you with some natural mediciney stuff, maybe.
Liam: It stings a bit.
Matt: You have not encountered a person with any sort of physical marring to this degree, necessarily, and those that usually did, it was a permanent thing. So this is something that you would have to experiment with.
Ashley: Could I try healing? A very concentrated energy just on his foot? A healing spell?
Matt: You could certainly try.
Laura: You can do it, Pike.
Marisha: Is there anyway I could assist her?
Matt: Possibly. All right.
Ashley: Let's try it.
Marisha: Possibly?
Liam: I mean a clockwork foot from Percy does sound cool.
Ashley: If we're going to rest, it doesn't hurt to try.
Marisha: That way we can sleep on it.
Ashley: You can sleep on it.
Liam: Literally.
Laura: Maybe this yellow vial of potion could do something for it as well.
Liam: That's Ben-gay.
Ashley: I'll try Cure Wounds at, I'll try 4th level, since we're going to sleep.
Matt: All right so go ahead and roll the corresponding dice for that.
Ashley: So I roll...
Matt: 4d8 + 5 Is what it would be.
Laura: Why do you keep putting your foot up near me? (all laugh)
Laura: Can I keep an ear out for anything approaching?
Matt: Very much so.
Ashley: Wait, plus my spell caster--
Matt: Plus your modifier, which is five.
Marisha: I start building a positive chi. Like a healing chi ball.
Sam: Is she doing a standard healing here? Is my song of rest going to help at all?
Matt: Your song of rest would actually be of aid to this.
Sam: Okay. So I'm going to sing while you heal, if that's all right.
Ashley: Please do.
Matt: All the healers convene, Scanlan begins--
Marisha: I light some sage.
Sam: Okay, ready? (singing) Wherever you go, whatever damage they've done, we will be right here waiting to heal you. No matter what hit points you take or how your foot breaks, we will be right here--
Sam: Waiting for you.
Ashley: Waiting for you.
Liam: All that improv school paid off. (all laugh)
Matt: As you take the healing energy you've gathered from your own nature-based casting, you infuse the healing spell. You do how many points of healing from the spell?
Ashley: 27.
Matt: 27. Go ahead and make a medicine check.
Marisha: Is this what I can maybe assist her with?
Laura: It looks really disgusting by the way. It's so gross.
Ashley: What do I roll? Do I roll the 20?
Matt: Roll a d20, and add your proficiency modifier
Liam: Can I apply my Luck feat to her?
Laura: You don't have any feet left. (all laugh)
Sam: Feet pun!
Ashley: 21.
Matt: 21. As you finish the spell, you can see where the mostly-gone second small toe has grown to mostly a full toe, and there's a small stub where the little one is.
Laura: You've got a toe nubbin.
Ashley: Hey man, we got a little stub. A little bit.
Matt: You're promoting a level of divine regeneration at a very, very slow pace. You've never attempted this before, and there is some progress, but this may be an over time thing you have to do.
Ashley: Over time, I just keep doing it?
Matt: Once a day, you might want to attempt this and eventually he probably will recover. But not immediately.
Sam: Until then, he's a gimp.
Liam: I think I see Pike's deity in my toenail! (all laugh)
Ashley: It's gonna take time. That was just a little manicure that we did real quick.
Marisha: We could just own it and call you--
Taliesin: Little piggy?
Marisha: Well I was going to say Vax the Nine-Toe.
Liam: And put a knife on it?
Taliesin: Could put a very tiny knife on it.
Laura: A teeny tiny little knife.
Taliesin: Could actually give you a nail clipper. You could clip your own nails.
Marisha: We can get you a prosthetic little toe that has a little compartment for poison.
Liam: I would take a brass claw.
Marisha: Or a brass claw toe. That's fun. Maybe we could get you a raptor claw. That's cool.
Taliesin: Let's sleep.
Sam: Before we go to sleep, I go over to Kima and I say to her, Lady Kima, I think we're all going to take a rest and you as well, correct?
Matt: "I think I should."
Sam: We can trust you while we're all asleep not to do anything to any of our companions, correct?
Matt: "If you're worried about the mind flayer, I'll be keeping an eye, but nothing beyond that. Remember: he has to make the side-step, the wrong step, before I take any action. Trust and know that if I were to strike a blow, it's at his own poor choice and actions."
Orion: That first part of what you said rhymed.
Sam: Does she seem to be telling the truth?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Sam: A what? What check?
Matt: Insight.
Sam: Insight. Okay, 18.
Matt: She seems to be true.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: She is legitimately concerned about Clarota. But also understands that at this moment, it has not done anything to necessarily draw her blade.
Liam: Lady Kima, Clarota, may I suggest you take the first watch?
Sam: (laughs) Oh my god, what if they start fucking? (all laugh)
Taliesin: So it's going to be that sort of evening, excellent.
Liam: Rated M, for mature.
Matt: Clarota says, "Should you insist." And Clarota's image shimmers and vanishes.
Orion: Sweet.
Taliesin: I'm falling asleep.
Matt: As you guys are all going to sleep, Kima's still sharpening her sword and she stops for a second and goes, "Everyone, I'm sorry you've lost your friend. If he lives, we shall find him."
Laura: He will live.
Taliesin: And we will find him.
Ashley: No, he will, Scanlan! You just calm down.
Matt: "But if they have indeed taken him prisoner and Emberhold is lost, there is only one place they would bring him: Yug'Voril."
Laura: (gasps) With the dude with the black horn.
Matt: "Considering the mess that you've made since entering their realm of living and work, you'd make for a great gift to their current standing demigod. If we aren't able to find him within the city, I think that may be the next place to look."
Marisha: Once again, are you afraid they're going to take him while we're asleep? Is this a genuine concern? Is this something we should move on now?
Matt: "Not as long as you're keeping concentration, we should be fine."
Laura: I'm concentrating so hard. (all laugh)
Liam: We're busted up.
Taliesin: There's legitimately nothing to be done.
Matt: There's a softness that hits Kima's face and you can see a bit of a quiver to her chin and she goes, "The guilt I feel for unknowingly putting you all in danger for my sake is immense. It's because of me and my actions that you even delved this far and nearly lost life and limb, merely at the behest of Allura and... I want you all to know that I appreciate it. I really, truly do."
Orion: That's great. If you can mention that to Allura, that'd be wonderful.
Matt: "I would really appreciate it to speak to Tiberius."
Orion: (mumbles, makes spell sounds, returns to normal voice) I would really appreciate it if you mentioned that to Allura. I'm trying to get into her good graces and whatnot.
Matt: She chuckles a moment and says, "All right. Allura is a good friend. Well we've known each other for... gods, 15 years now. Since we defeated the Scourged Rider, together. But she has always had more of a political mind than I do, so, when we were both offered a seat on the council of Tal'Dorei and Emon she stayed, and I... I'm a woman of action, and I knew my destiny was out in the world."
Orion: We share something in common, Lady Kima. I, too, have left my home and land because I did not want to sit on the council of Draconia. With blessings from my father and such, I gained ambassadorship on a mission for them, but really, just so I could--
Matt: Her eyes have glazed over and are staring off into the distance. (all laugh)
Orion: To get all the things out, and I saw this wonderful lamb in this field one time--
Matt: "I was speak to Allura of your honor and deeds, Tiberius. We try to have drinks and swap stories every few months. She's a good one."
Orion: Yes, I think so.
Matt: She takes a moment to herself and looks around at the rest of you and says, "The cruel king. Who dealt the final blow?"
Sam: (clears throat) That would be the kingslayer. Me.
Matt: She steps up and walks over to you and puts a hand on your shoulder and gives you a stern look in the eye and shakes your shoulder. She's a halfling, so she's not too much taller than you. (all laugh)
Sam: (laughing) Oh, okay.
Matt: "Good. The cruel king is down, and I thank you for that." She walks back to the little perch on the rock at the side of the wall and says, "He tried to break me. Relish in his false superiority. Dragging hooks across my flesh, underestimating the will of a servant of Bahamut."
Marisha: Are you congratulating us for being murderers? Is that what you're doing right now?
Matt: "Murder and justice are two entirely different things and the deities of all good saw to it that this King's time was limited."
Marisha: Are you suggesting now that we control the wills of the deities?
Matt: "No, but we enact them, as long as we work within your plans to keep us safe."
Marisha: That's mighty bold and presumptuous of you.
Matt: "My life has been given to guidance of the platinum dragon, who has not seen nothing but the positive direction for all of your species, mine and the rest of humanity, that exists in the material plane. You would do well to not disrespect one who looks out for you, even though you may not look up to him for guidance. The reason these lands that you grew up in are safe and free, as much as they are, are because of the sacrifices of my brethren who came before me under his light and guidance. I'm not saying you to worship him-- each one has their own gods of choice. I just say, show some respect."
Marisha: I do show respect, Lady Kima. I show respect when I feel that respect has been earned.
Orion: She's royalty, you have to understand.
Sam: We're all a bit cranky. Maybe we should just turn in.
Matt: "I watched as they executed my companions! The wondrous men and women who came down to these caverns at my sides with my coin in their pockets, with the promise of justice. And they laughed as they cut their throats before me, hoping it would be able to crack me. It was Bahamut's strength that held me there."
Marisha: Lady Kima, I am not saying that what we are doing here is not just. I only wish that you understand-- and I humbly thank you for your appreciation and thanks for coming down here to rescue you. But you are correct. We have lost a friend. Someone who we have been through a lot with, way more than we have been with you. So. Before we start boasting congratulations and you start thanking us, why don't you wait? And we'll see what happens when we all get out of here first.
Liam: She's suffering from PTSD. Why are you poking the badger?
Laura: Maybe we should just calm down and go to sleep.
Matt: Kima takes a step forward towards Keyleth. And as you look up at her face, there's a tension, but you can see now that she's stepped near in to you, towards what little bit of light seems to cascade through this cavern, there are tears streaking down her face.
Laura: How do you feel now? (all laugh)
Matt: "They tried all they could to break me, but I knew my destiny would not end here. I have a destiny that does not end here."
Ashley: I reach out really slowly and give her a handkerchief. (all laugh)
Ashley: And then retreat.
Taliesin: Lady Kima, as I'm sure you know, grief speaks before sense.
Marisha: All I'm saying, Lady Kima, is that after what we have done and what we have been through and the lives and the blood that even I have on my hands, you had better be worth it.
Taliesin: Let us wait for talk of worth and talk of might until we are reunited.
Matt: She puts a hand up towards you. "Child, let me explain to you why we are here. As while you may have stepped into the pretense of keeping me out of harm's way, there is a purpose that I and now all of us serve, here in the Underdark. Now, I've been on this journey for more than a year, traveling wherever the wind took me, finding where my gift would find an end to suffering, justice to the wicked and comfort to the downtrodden. I'd just returned from the frozen tundra northeast of these Cliffkeep mountains, heading to meet with Allura, the same friend who brought you here."
Orion: I pop out of my sleep. Did you say Allura again?
Matt: "Shh."
Orion: I'm sorry.
Laura: Tiberius. Shh.
Matt: "My vision came to me. I'm sure you're familiar with visions. The great platinum dragon bestowed upon my humble self a dream. I saw an ancient vision of the great and terrible god of undeath himself: Orcus. His crimson, leathery skin and endless wings rumbling through the Abyss itself. He had chosen a champion, one that would unite the material world and the heart of the Abyss, bringing a doorway of oblivion to our world. He cut from his own head two of his terrible black horns, placing them upon the brow of this chosen warrior, his avatar to these realms, granting him power no mortal should ever have. I saw heroes, long forgotten, rise up to destroy this shadow champion, losing much in the ensuing battle. Loss, far more than you or I will ever know. The body of the avatar was burned away, but the horns of Orcus remained. Untouched by flame, blade, nor divine judgement. These keepers of the horns had a title that time has taken and the whereabouts of the artifacts that had been, thankfully, lost as well. Until the next dream dispelled my confusion. I felt a cackling entity of immense power, who had discovered one of the holding vaults, never meant to be found. This creature obsessed, spent all their attention to unlock the promised treasure within and over time, they did. One of the two horns had found a new champion, one who now resides deeper within the Underdark here. One we've now known to be called K'varn. This one who has united the illithid and the duergar alike under a banner of madness, expansion, and mockery of life. I've seen these experiments, as have you. This is what I came down here to dispose of, once and for all. Now, I hired some of the finest warriors in Kraghammer for this, all of whom have been slain or worse. That guilt weighs upon my soul. And this very quest, whoever this K'varn monstrosity, it holds the horn of Orcus upon its brow. My visions have told me that we must destroy it and must do so soon. If it had already unlocked the artifact's true potential, Kraghammer would be a ruin before you even arrived. But it's only a matter of time. We must end K'Varn and retrieve this horn and return it to the Tal'Dorei council to discuss how to seal it once more, hopefully for all of eternity. Your friend's loss is a terrible thing, but we will try to find him and should we not, understand that his sacrifice was not in vain. For we're here not to save one, but thousands, hundreds of thousands of lives, if we succeed. So we sleep, we rest, we find your friend and we destroy this, this abomination, this anathema."
Marisha: Lady Kima, I only hope you do not eventually become what you fear so much. Good night.
Sam: Sleep tight.
Matt: She picks up her blade, sits back down and goes back to sharpening (sounds of a sharpening stone hitting blade).
Laura: That was weird, right? Good night.
Taliesin: That went well.
Sam: Pike, I'll cuddle you for warmth, if that would help?
Ashley: It's already so hot in here with all the lava and stuff, I would just prefer to sleep alone. I'm sorry.
Sam: That's fine. That's what I meant.
Marisha: I turn into Minxie form and go off in the corner and curl up in the corner.
Liam: Scanlan, I'm very cold. (all laugh)
Sam: You know what? We better let that foot heal. We better let it heal.
Laura: Trinket, go sleep with Vax.
Liam: That's a good idea. Come here, Trinky. Trink!
Matt: (bear sounds and sniffing)
Liam: Who wants nibbles?
Matt: Trinket comes up and curls next to you. The evening goes by, uneventful. Occasionally, you stumble out of your rest, keep an eye out. The beacon still resides. From what you can imagine, a natural body sleep cycle that you're used to passes. A few begin to wake up before the others, as you have no daylight to ascertain whether it is day or night. Indeed, who knows what it is at this point.
Orion: I relieved myself in the middle of the night.
Laura: Thank you for telling us, Tiberius.
Sam: Did you get up?
Matt: Just wake up in a puddle of his own dragonborn filth?
Orion: I did my dragonborn business and buried it. As we do.
Laura: So have we healed completely?
Matt: Yes, you've all healed completely at this point. You had an evening's rest.
Sam: Do we get all our spells back and stuff?
Matt: You get your spells back.
Marisha: We have to pick them for the day, right?
Sam: I can do things again.
Marisha: Yeah, hang on, got to think about this.
Orion: Put some Greater Restorations in there.
Matt: Your mark? Wait, your mark, your Hunter's Mark, which you can feel, the magic of it is slowly waning as the spell comes to the end of its effective period, is moving.
Laura: (gasps) Where's it moving?
Matt: It's moving out of the city.
Laura: Where, which direction?
Matt: Best you can tell, it's heading towards the opposite side of the cavern towards where it curves down, deeper and below.
Laura: Wait. Where is that in relation to us?
Matt: To where you guys are? If you're looking out from next to the Emberhold, it's to your right, curving down and around.
Laura: We should go that direction.
Marisha: I go and cast Pass Without a Trace on us.
Matt: All right.
Liam: This is suddenly turning into Labyrinth. "Beyond the Goblin city..."
Matt: To take back the child, which you have stolen.
Laura: You have no power over me.
Sam: The way we came in the city was through the side path, right?
Matt: Yes, the side of Emberhold, which you followed the curvature of this giant cavern around and you slept on the side, up against the wall, using the illusion, the illusory terrain.
Sam: So we're already--
Matt: You're already away from Emberhold, you're on the side of the wall, maybe about a quarter to a half a mile further down.
Sam: But if we keep going, we'll get to the--
Matt: You'll head down further into the cavern, seemingly in the direction where her Hunter's Mark is currently leading, which has now faded.
Sam: Okay! Your Hunter's Mark is gone.
Laura: Well, it went that way. We should go.
Sam: So, let's go. Let's just hurry.
Laura: As stealthily as possible so we don't alert the entire freaking camp.
Taliesin: We've got Pass Without a Trace, so we should be all right.
Matt: All right.
Laura: I try to make it look like we weren't around this area as much as possible without our Dust of Tracelessness.
Matt: You're sweeping behind the group as they're all moving along. With your imaginary brush.
Liam: Trinket's doing that thing where he pulls with his front feet and drags with his behind.
Taliesin: He's just rolling like a giant brillo brush.
Marisha: I put Stone Shape in my Ring of Holding last night with my unused spells. I meant to tell you that last night.
Matt: That's all right. All right, you do that.
Ashley: Oh, I forgot you had that ring.
Matt: All right, so.
Orion: I take out my Ioun Stones.
Matt: Okay, so your Ioun Stones are now slowly rotating around your head. Well, you can only have one up at a time.
Orion: Well, I only have one.
Matt: Yeah, okay, good. You said stones, so.
Orion: Sorry. Pathfinder habit.
Matt: I know. So moving around your head slowly. All right, so the rest of you gather, you cast your spell Pass Without a Trace. You continue to crest along the outskirts of the cavern wall at this point. Looking over, you can see, throughout the night, most of the fortress, currently-- the lava fall that once contained it is completely cooled and is dark. It looks like their way of stopping the flow was to stop the entire magma fall. Who knows how much damage has been done, but currently the flow is halted and you can see now, there's a number of parties of duergar that are wandering out, through the cavern, presumably in search for you.
Laura: So technically, Lady Kima, we might be able to get back in eventually and get your weapon.
Matt: As you say that, she grins to herself and says, "I would like that very much. I had some sentimental value to that equipment."
Laura: And there's a vault.
Matt: "And there is a vault."
Sam: Unless it melted.
Liam: This will greatly enhance your ability to move forward with us, won't it?
Matt: "I think right now time is of the essence for your friend more than anything."
Laura: We should go look for Grog.
Matt: "Besides, I highly doubt that that stronghold has been left alone, just because it's filled with rock."
Liam: Maybe on the way out.
Matt: Okay, so as you guys progress on the side, I would like everybody to roll a stealth check, please.
Laura: Oh, I don't know which one to roll.
Matt: You still have disadvantage, but you have advantage with your cloak, so you're neutralized. You're a normal roll right now.
Marisha: (softly) Stealth check.
Ashley: We have advantage?
Marisha: You have plus ten.
Matt: No, you have disadvantage still.
Ashley: I do not. There's no plus anything?
Sam: Plus ten.
Ashley: Ten still?
Orion: 29.
Liam: Plus ten?
Matt: Plus ten.
Orion: 29.
Sam: 19.
Marisha: 33.
Taliesin: 17.
Ashley: 21.
Laura: 24.
Liam: 33.
Laura: Oh, I didn't roll for Trinket. Hold on.
Liam: Oh, Trinket rolled a one.
Laura: Trinket, shush. Oh, I didn't feed him today, he's probably so hungry.
Sam: Have any of us eaten?
Ashley: We've rested.
Matt: Essentially, as opposed to having this minutiae of reminding you all to eat, I just consider when you rest and take short rests, you're snacking and resting. Otherwise, we communally spend ten minutes a game talking about what you ate. If food begins to become scarce, which it may in time, I'll let you know.
Liam: Foot flakes anyone? Foot flakes?
Matt: It's like pork rinds (chuckles). All right. So, as you continue down this cavern, you begin to see the search parties in the distance and you keep low and watch as they pass. Some of them have small, that red glowish stone torches set out to keep their vision about. You can see a few of the parties returning to the city. Eventually, you guys begin to crest down deeper and dropping into a small decline as this giant, almost hatchback cavern where most of the duergar civilization is built in comes to an end. You begin to travel deeper, deeper into the Underdark caverns below. As you're continuing forward, you find a very very familiar scent catches your attention immediately, as you're tracking through, trying to keep your attention on possibly any sign of Grog. It's the smell of blood. It's the smell of fresh blood. Fresh-ish.
Laura: Fresh-ish?
Matt: Fresh-ish blood, if you will. You smell fresh-ish blood. You immediately glance over and you can see on the side of this cavern, which is about 50, 60 feet wide at this point, as it's come to a pinching point leading downward, you can see a spatter of blood across the wall to your immediate left, and what looks like a mangled mass of what once was a duergar, currently just torn asunder across this rock wall.
Laura: Oh no.
Marisha: Does it look to be natural, done by an animal? Or does it look like people with weapons?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Laura: The only time I've seen duergar split across like this was when we saw the camp of that creepy centipede creature.
Liam: With the stalagmite coming up?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Ten.
Laura: Do I see any of those kind of tracks around?
Matt: You check and look around on the ground as well, you unfortunately, as you look around, you're not able to pick up the fine details. You, however, just being naturally understanding of the Underdark, as well as having the previous knowledge of inspecting the initial camp: yes, these tracks are very similar. You see what looks like these strange dragging marks on the ground, these elongated ones. No footprints. Occasionally you see what looks like a human-sized footprint as well, and then these drag marks. You also notice that there is just beyond the rock threshold, as you step over towards the wall, you see three other duergar bodies that are torn asunder. Many of them partially eaten and violently torn apart. Some parts are scarred, some sort of acidic burn, and you see tooth marks, you see claw marks and you see portions of limbs that have been pulled off by sheer force.
Marisha: Could I do a nature check to see if I would know of a creature that could do this?
Matt: You certainly can.
Laura: It's going to be that centipede creature thingy.
Marisha: Ooh. 26.
Matt: 26. It's weird. There are elements of the drag marks on the ground that resemble a creature that has pseudopods or some sort of a tentacle-like mass, but you know of no natural creature that also has this power, this type of hunting technique, nor would be this far underground.
Taliesin: I think it's another stitch monster.
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Stitch monster.
Taliesin: Stitch monster.
Laura: I like it.
Taliesin: I do, too.
Laura: It's a good name.
Marisha: Something tentacle-y though. Nothing ever good is tentacle-y.
Laura: Can I tell if Grog definitely came this way?
Matt: Go ahead and make a tracking check, so just go ahead and roll a d20. You have advantage, because you're in the Underdark.
Laura: What do I add that to?
Matt: It should be under your tracking ability under your ranger abilities there. In your spells, under you ranger abilities. I'll see if I find it before you.
Laura: I don't understand.
Matt: It's on the sheet I gave you, with all your character stuff.
Laura: Oh. Okay, cool.
Matt: That one. The one that's easiest.
Laura: Natural explorer, primeval awareness.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I don't have any idea what I'm looking for. (all laugh)
Laura: I'm just looking at words right now.
Matt: It's a survival check. There you go.
Laura: It's a survival check.
Matt: You have advantage on it.
Laura: Okay. Oh, good. So that's 22.
Matt: 22. All right. Looking around, what you do find is, there is a very familiar scent that a goliath barbarian does have. You, using Trinket's help, as you yourself are not quite as attuned, Trinket does pick up a little bit of Grog's scent in this pathway. So Trinket (moans) gives you a nudge and points deeper down the cavern. And you can see what looks to be a smattering of small duergar-sized feet and two grooves.
Laura: Two grooves?
Matt: About two-inch-wide grooves that continue down the path.
Laura: I wonder if they have him prisoner now. If he came out of his mind funk.
Marisha: Wheel tracks?
Matt: It could very well be wheel tracks.
Orion: Or they're dragging his body.
Matt: They're consistent and their width is consistent.
Marisha: Their width is consistent? And they seem clean?
Sam: They've put him on some sort of stretcher thing.
Marisha: Yeah, sounds like they have him on, yeah, a trailer.
Laura: Lovely. Well, Grog definitely came this way. As did the stitch monster, so you don't have much choice but to follow.
Taliesin: Let's continue.
Orion: Shall we?
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: Be aware. We're all very aware of--
Marisha: Things.
Laura: Any movement at all... happening.
Taliesin: Guys, stuff.
Matt: Keeping your eyes peeled, you travel for another two and a half hours down this cavern path. It grows tighter at points where you can only really fit three or four individuals through, it's about 20, 25 feet wide, then opens up sporadically into other small pockets, where the natural topography of this portion of this Underdark cavern structure seems to weave and bend. The warmth and that sulfurous smell that was intrinsic to the duergar portion of this cavern that you were so used to, begins to slowly fade and temperature begins to drop. Still uncomfortable, but it's growing more humid as opposed to dry heat.
Orion: It's so good.
Matt: After another hour of travel, keeping your eyes out, the temperature drops significantly and is actually quite cold. The heat in the volcanic portion of this cavern structure apparently has passed you now, and you've hit an area of the rock where it is a much more chilled, much more ominous--
Orion: It's humid still?
Matt: Human?
Orion: Humid.
Matt: Humid? The humidity begins to fade as well. The air becomes a dry cold.
Orion: So we're past that.
Matt: You eventually using, which by the way the only light source you have going forward is the light from your staff.
Orion: Oh, Light!
Matt: I assume you've had it up this whole time or you've been walking in the darkness.
Orion: Oh, yes, of course.
Matt: (chuckles) You continue down and the topography, which was once the black, jagged obsidian flooring of the previous portion of the Underdark, begins to give way to a more natural gray sand-type texture. Your feet sink about a quarter inch or so with each step, and you get about ten, 15 feet before the color of the sand and the texture changes dramatically. It looks almost like a peppering of small whitish-yellow stones and rocks, as well as bits of black and grey. It's like a giant, rocky pit out in front of you.
Marisha: What?
Liam: Meaning it's all solid stone that color or loose gravel and rock?
Matt: You find sand and then the sand eventually gives way to like larger pieces of these rocks and stones.
Marisha: So it's like a pebble ball pit in front of us?
Matt: Essentially.
Taliesin: I'm looking for signs of mining.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make an investigation check.
Orion: I'm going to make an arcana check, also.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: 15. Checking the walls immediately in your vicinity, you see there are signs of mining, but they're old, they haven't been used in a while. You can see some veins that are dried up. Looks like maybe the duergar had business down here mining.
Marisha: Does it look like there-- Can I do a nature check to see if this is an old lake bed? Like there is a river bed?
Matt: Sure, go and do that. What did you roll?
Orion: 11.
Matt: What are you checking?
Orion: For arcana.
Matt: What are you checking?
Orion: Just general, if I feel a general source of sinister magic anywhere.
Matt: Nothing arcane seems to emanate from the vicinity.
Liam: Vex'ahlia, you know the Underdark. Are there any critters crawling around in that pit?
Laura: Is this still the Underdark?
Matt: You seem to be still in the Underdark, but the Underdark in general you're familiar with; your training and studying on the denizens of it, what things to look for. This is not a natural or overall occurrence you've read about before.
Laura: I can't sense anything or any creatures nearby?
Matt: Not per se.
Marisha: I rolled a 16.
Matt: Rolled a 16? As you're looking around, you go and inspect the stones. What you do notice is, they're not stones. There are pieces of glass, little shards of actual volcanic glass scattered across this entire field mixed with an endless seemingly sea of small bone chunks.
Laura: Ugh!
Marisha: Chunks?
Laura: Great!
Matt: Pieces of bone that have been rounded off, ground, broken.
Orion: Bone petals.
Matt: They're ancient.
Marisha: Okay, so there appears to be-- are there any whole pieces of bones? Big femurs or skulls?
Sam: This was some sort of burial ground.
Matt: It's hard to see. Most of the bones that have been here, have been around long enough to the point where they've eroded, been broken, destroyed over and over again to the point where you can't discern any of the original creatures they may have come from. It's just a sea of bone, obsidian glass, and small bits of stone that have fallen from the actual nearby cavern.
Liam: Can we see any sort of civilized construction here? Or is this all the work of nature or some living thing?
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18? You look past the barrier of his light spell, because you can only get a little bit past that due to your elven low-light vision. You do notice there are occasionally some spires of natural rock, some stalagmites that are jutting out in the distance, and you see what looks like some semblance of a ruined wall just beyond the edge of the vision. Like a crumbled, small wall.
Laura: Can I use my primeval awareness and see if I can sense Grog within six miles of us?
Matt: Certainly. All right, so how does your primeval awareness work, miss ranger?
Laura: Oh, I can use an action to focus my awareness on a region around me and then I can sense whether-- oh, well, no. It's only certain types of creatures.
Matt: Right. Which are?
Liam: Like goliath?
Laura: Well, no. It says "aberrations, celestials, dragons, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead".
Liam: That still might be useful, even if it doesn't find Grog.
Matt: What you do gather, you do sense a very strong force of aberration-based, much further, like five miles ahead, way ahead, and you have this weird, "Okay, good to know." You don't sense anything else, but you do sense a general presence about this entire sea of bone.
Ashley: I've been here!
Marisha: What?!
Ashley: I was here in the vision.
Laura: Really?
Ashley: Yes, it was a field of broken glass and bone, and I feel like this is it.
Laura: So what do we do?
Ashley: And then after that, I got to a cavern of blue crystal.
Laura: So we have to go beyond it.
Marisha: So we're on the right road.
Ashley: I think we have to go beyond this.
Taliesin: All right.
Orion: Well, let's keep moving, then.
Laura: Can we keep to the edge and try to not disturb the rock as much as possible.
Matt: As you move to either edge, you can see the wall comes to a straight meeting with this. Aside from the climbing the walls proper, you have no other way of traversing this.
Liam: Could you describe the dimensions of this one more time?
Matt: Yes. The cavern itself is about 120 to 150 feet wide. You don't see the ceiling right now.
Laura: Oh, it's that high?
Liam: So, from our left to our right, 150 feet?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: And is it a big circular shape?
Matt: From what you can tell, it just opens up and then continues and then darkness. You cannot see beyond it.
Laura: Are there any rocks around us? Any big rocks?
Matt: There are a couple of small spires about 60, 70 feet out.
Laura: Anything loose? Anything I can grab near us?
Matt: Around you? Most everything that's grabbable are part of it, yeah.
Ashley: We don't have the magic carpet. So never mind.
Sam: What, do you want to fly?
Liam: I say we take a wall.
Taliesin: Say we just gingerly try and cross against a wall.
Laura: Yeah. Anything to throw as far as I can out and see if it--
Matt: You look around and find a small pebble, and you chuck it (sound of pebble flying through air and landing) It arcs around, bounces a bit, and comes to rest.
Sam: Let's just go.
Marisha: No! No, I'm not touching that. Nope.
Sam: What are we going to do? Turn around? Grog's that way.
Marisha: Okay, here's my idea. We've got that immovable rod.
Orion: Yes, I know where you're going with this, and we'd all have to make a certain--
Matt: Once again, there's something about this whole area, there's a presence about it. It's ominous, and everywhere about this floor.
Marisha: I don't want to touch this. I feel like we should go over it.
Ashley: What if these bones come to life?
Laura: Can you send your light source up? Can anybody send light up and see how high the ceiling goes?
Orion: (mumbles) Shoot an arrow, if you would, Vex, please? Wherever you wish.
Laura: Okay.
Orion: Light!
Matt: Okay, cast out an arrow. As it shoots over, arcs through the air. You get a look of the cavern. You can see it's a large, arched, natural cavern with a number of hanging stalactites at the top. It goes up, arcs past, and then lands probably about a half a mile down the way. Really nice shot.
Laura: Thanks.
Matt: And it lands with a (impact noise). With what little bit you can see through the arc, this path just continues and continues and continues for that full half mile.
Laura: There's no way to avoid it.
Marisha: There's no way to avoid it.
Matt: You do get a nice view of what looks to be more of these little, central pieces of broken wall. Looks like there was either a small series of structures or buildings that were built once within this cavern that have all completely crumbled to ruin with but a few small bastions of foundation that still remain.
Laura: Tiberius, how many times can you cast pillars of... whatever? Pillars.
Orion: Grand Columns is the spell, Vex.
Laura: How many times can you cast Grand Columns?
Orion: Multiple times, I guess.
Laura: Could we potentially walk on columns across this thing? Potentially.
Marisha: I mean, I could wall of-- bend us a stone wall that's and we could just walk along the path. But it goes only so far.
Orion: Hold on a second. I've got something here.
Liam: We're seeing the remains of buildings scattered throughout, maybe we could go from--
Laura: What about a wall from out from the side?
Marisha: The side? And then we walk along that side?
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: Yeah, we could do that, right?
Matt: How big is the wall you can make?
Laura: What were you going to say?
Liam: Well, there's little islands of structure left, we could just--
Laura: Hop.
Liam: Stand bridge, stand bridge, stand bridge.
Marisha: I can go 120 feet. I can make about 120 feet wall.
Matt: You saw about a quarter to a half mile. This seems to continue.
Laura: So, that might not be enough.
Sam: She'd have to do it 20 times.
Taliesin: I think we may just have to walk gingerly.
Marisha: Maybe we can fashion--
Ashley: Should we find traps? Check for traps?
Marisha: Can we fashion snow boots?
Liam: Vax starts feeling along one side of the wall. Does the ground look firm and more stable on the edges? Or is it all just the same?
Matt: Do you step out a little bit into the area?
Liam: Hand on the wall.
Matt: Hand on the wall? I mean, it's a wall.
Liam: No, but I mean-- yes.
Matt: But you step out with your hand on the wall.
Liam: I'm not stepping out yet. I'm looking at the ground. Is it pebbles and rock all the way to the sides?
Matt: All the way up to the wall.
Marisha: Okay.
Orion: Lady Keyleth, if you will, could you perhaps make a flat, sturdy stone tablet we could all particularly stand on.
Marisha: Sure.
Orion: Make sure it's under a hundred pounds, if you could. Or actually, two hundred pounds, a little bit more to work with.
Marisha: I use Stone Shape and I bend down and make a big circle where I am. Carve out a little cylinder with Stone Shape.
Matt: So, using a very earthbender-y hand motion, you take a portion of the wall right next to you, send it outward and begin to shape it into this large cylinder--
Marisha: Disc.
Matt: Disc-like platform, that's (boof) on the ground, right at the base of the platform.
Orion: Everybody, hop on.
Laura: Trinket, hop on this rock.
Orion: Wait a minute, how much does Trinket weigh?
Laura: A lot.
Liam: Is it 200?
Matt: Trinket weighs more than that.
Liam: Trinket weighs a ton. All of us together.
Marisha: Maybe you could just levitate Trinket behind?
Orion: I don't have that spell anymore. I need to know how much she weighs for this.
Matt: Trinket, I mean, looking at it, you haven't really weighed her yourself, you gather--
Laura: Trinket's a boy!
Matt: Trinket weighs approximately-- (all laugh)
Sam: Trinket's a boy?! With a name like Trinket?
Liam: Haven't you seen his wang flopping around under his tail?
Matt: Trinket's probably close to a thousand.
Orion: So here's the situation. I can get us all across, but I cannot take Trinket as well.
Laura: I'm not leaving Trinket behind. So everybody get on that and we'll see what happens.
Sam: Why don't we go across. He can come back and get Trinket.
Laura: Okay, yeah. How about you guys go and I'll stay with Trinket. You guys go.
Liam: Well, I'm not going to leave her.
Marisha: Can we make him weightless and then tug him along with the rope? We can't do that?
Ashley: I have a question. How many feet across?
Laura: It's like half a mile.
Matt: Quarter to a half mile from what you can tell, like I said, you only have vision enough to where the arrow arced and it was a very long arc, that just trailed off so you gather anywhere between a quarter to a half mile.
Ashley: I want to run across. (all laugh)
Sam: With your heavy armor.
Liam: Sneak right in there.
Laura: Oh, just do it.
Ashley: Wait, are we getting on the rock?
Liam: How far is the closest little island of remaining structure that you referenced?
Matt: Oh it's probably about 60, 70 feet out.
Laura: I don't sense any undead with my primal awareness do I?
Matt: The perpetual presence that you sense across the entirety of this bed of bone and glass, if you had to describe it, it has some sort of undead-ish realm. It's not your specialty, I mean it is, like undead creatures are, and the presence is similar to that.
Ashley: I get my Mace of Disruption ready.
Laura: Oh, and Kima!
Marisha: (gasps) Oh! We're done! We can do this! We polymorph Trinket!
Orion: That's it, yes!
Marisha: We polymorph Trinket!
Orion: Very good.
Ashley: Into a tiny tiny?
Orion: Make him into a chicken.
Matt: You instinctively glance around, you look down, and you notice your holy symbol of Sarenrae has a hairline fracture in it. What was once a perfect and impeccable sphere of design-- you've had this your entire life, you look down and see, you don't know how recently, but a portion of the metal symbol itself is cracked.
Sam: Oh, Pike.
Ashley: Oh no, this is terrible.
Laura: Pike, pray! do something!
Orion: I motion over to Pike and I take her medallion slowly off of her and go-- and bring out my Mending Wheel.
Matt: Your Mending Wheel, which was where? It was in the Bag of Holding.
Orion: No, I held that.
Matt: The Mending Wheel's this big. You haven't been carrying it with you this entire time!
Orion: What? I thought it was like this big.
Matt: (laughs) Tiberius.
Ashley: I'll take my symbol back, put it back on, and say, this is something that I've got to-- this is something I need to deal with. We can't just put it in a Mending Wheel.
Liam: The gods reward deeds, not words.
Ashley: Yes.
Marisha: Maybe it happened in the fight.
Ashley: I think I know why it happened.
Sam: Maybe because you've been killing unarmed people?
Ashley: I think it was when I slit the guy's throat. She got mad. Just a hunch.
Sam: But you know what? We'll do some good deeds when we're done.
Ashley: Yeah. This is something that I need to fix, but thank you for trying.
Orion: I forgot we didn't have it.
Laura: Well, Trinket, what do you want to be? A lizard? A mouse?
Matt: (bear noises)
Laura: A kitten? (gasps) A kitten.
Ashley: A little kitty.
Laura: You want to be a kitten?
Matt: (laughs) Trinket glances over at you with a look in the eye of like--
Marisha: And I go (floop), and I make him a kitten. What kind of kitten?
Laura: Oh, he's a Persian.
Marisha: He's a Persian kitten.
Matt: Trinket's form (shwoop) shifts down into this tiny white puffball with a pushed-in nose.
Laura: You're the cutest, Trinket.
Ashley: I go and I snuggle, and I nuzzle him.
Laura: I tuck him into my shirt.
Matt: You sense immediately, Trinket is not necessarily pleased, but will deal with it.
Marisha: Well, he's so cute.
Laura: He's so cute.
Orion: In Draconia, those are snacks.
Sam: I wouldn't say that.
Laura: Let's go! Come on! Let's get on this thing! Grog's getting ahead of us.
Sam: All right, let's go. On our stone airplane.
Marisha: Let's get on the Wonkavator, everybody.
Ashley: All right hop on. I hop on.
Matt: All right, so you all hop onto this giant stone. It's really cramped, you're all shoulder-to-shoulder pushed onto here, clutched onto your new Persian cat. Kima and Clarota step onto it.
Orion: I cast Telekinesis on the stone slab, lift us up, and push us.
Matt: Okay, how much weight can you push through Telekinesis?
Orion: A thousand.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: I did all the math. (clears throat) Vax weighs 155, Pike weighs 75. Taliesin weighs 190, Vex weighs 120.
Ashley: But Scanlan weighs nothing.
Orion: Sam weighs the same, 75. Keyleth weighs 125.
Matt: Yep. Kima weighs 105. With all of her armor, she'd be 105.
Sam: Clarota can float.
Matt: Clarota can float. Does that still fall under a thousand total?
Orion: Yeah, should. Is that right?
Sam: What about you?
Taliesin: Plus the rock.
Laura: The rock would be less.
Orion: That's why I kept a hundred pounds for that.
Marisha: A hundred pounds for the rock.
Liam: Want to run those numbers again for the calculator?
Matt: Rock's 100 pounds? That's not a lot of stone.
Laura: It's a very thin piece of stone.
Matt: That's a very thin piece of stone. All right.
Orion: Nine. Nope, we're at nine-- we're there. We're at nine-something. You can do all the math, but it's nine-something.
Matt: Okay, all right, so you all stand on the platform. It (straining noises) rises up, and it's one of those all of you have to gather yourself, but nevertheless it is now floating. How long does it last, concentration wise?
Orion: Ten minutes.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Quick! Float us!
Matt: So, as Tiberius begins to concentrate, the stone begins to glide out over this expanse of broken bone and obsidian glass.
Orion: I hover about-- what's bone break?-- around six feet above the air. That's how high I take it.
Matt: Okay, so you're cresting about six feet. You have to move it around occasionally to avoid some of the large stalagmites that are jutting out of the bones.
Laura: Do we see anything? I'm keeping an eye out, see if I see any movement or anything that's maybe sparkles. I don't know.
Taliesin: Keeping an eye behind us, as well.
Matt: Okay. You guys, keeping an eye out, you see more and more of this ruin, and you can see the the further in you go, you start seeing bits of bone that are larger than what's near the edge. You start seeing bits and pieces that are full bones, so they've been more-- still rounded and weathered, but they're less ground down as supposed to the edges where most of the traction seems to be. You get about 300 feet out before you hear a loud, echoing scream across the cavern. (loud yell)
Orion: In front of us?
Matt: In front of you guys.
Laura: What's it sound like?
Matt: It's male, and it's loud.
Laura: Go! Can we go faster?
Orion: We hear this. I push us forward. I mean, we're going in that direction anyways, so I speed us up.
Liam: Keyleth, take the gnomes!
Matt: Correct, okay. As you speed up and continue--
Ashley: I jump on Keyleth.
Liam: Take the gnomes!
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Grab some feathers.
Sam: I'll grab on as well. Why not.
Matt: All right, so Keyleth, you transform maintaining concentration on Polymorph for Trinket, I believe, right? All right. It's not a spell, it's an effect you do. So you (whooshing noise) you transform into a giant eagle, you grab both the gnomes, you guys are lifted up off the platform as the platform continues to push forward.
Orion: Cool, so I get a little bit more control over it now. (grunts)
Matt: A little bit more. As you're pushing forward you feel the stone itself has this weird wobble to it, but you still manage to keep concentration, pushing forward. Eventually, the little bit of light from your Light spell cascades past one of these joining parts of a wall, and then beyond that you can see what looks like a few other stone pillars that are sticking up. And you see what looks to be a small party of duergar that are in the middle of battle. There is one duergar who is splattered across the bone floor. You see a troll that is currently in the middle of a fistfight with something that's moving extremely fast. This blur of motion. You can barely make out the physical form before the troll turns and runs in your direction, surprised to see the light coming towards you, and in its expression of extreme confusion and fear, you see something (whoosh) past, and its head just (soft falling sound). Rolls off the top of his shoulders.
Laura: That's not Grog! We're going to toward a monster!
Matt: (crashing sound) The troll body hits the ground. As it does you see bits of bone begin to rise up and pull the troll down underneath.
Laura: Oh, it's really good we're not standing on it!
Orion: Avoid! (whooshing sound)
Liam: Daggers out.
Taliesin: Guns out.
Matt: As you guys begin to push forward you can see two of the duergar are now backing up instinctually. One looks down at his feet now that have been grabbed, and he's being pulled under, and he just starts trying to wrestle himself free. This blur of motion jumps off one of the platforms, spins in the air, and lands with a slam that completely splatters across the rock that he's right next to. This duergar, you can see part of his jaw go flying off to the side and silence hits him in the middle of his scream. The last duergar there, you can see who's looking around, sees the stone platform, and goes, "Let me on! Let me on!" He goes running over and is trying to jump up towards the stone platform you guys are on.
Laura: How much does he weigh? (giggles)
Matt: Well, he's going to go ahead and try and grab it with an athletics check-- he makes it! (latching noise) He gets onto the side.
Sam: Kick him off!
Marisha: Fuck that guy!
Laura: I punch him in the face!
Matt: Okay, okay. You go ahead and (punch thud noise). You just beat him in the face. He holds tight. You're not a very strong person, unfortunately.
Liam: I grab him by the cloak. What is it? What is it?
Matt: "I don't know! Get it away! Get it away!"
Marisha: In eagle form, I'm going to do a nice high soaring lap.
Sam: We're on you!
Marisha: I know! It's okay! I'm going to use my-- I'm soaring high. It's an easy breeze. We're on the people mover. Okay. And I'm going to use my keen sight to see if I can get a good... (pew)
Matt: Okay, so, using that you glance down and in this brief moment where it seems like the cacophony of this entire circumstance slows down (slowing sound noise). And your eagle eyes glance down, and you can see in a brief moment the blur stops. You see a humanoid form. Looking at the body and the torso, it looks elven. Its very thin and gaunt legs dangling as four giant, jagged-looking tentacles sprout from both sides of its torso, holding it aloft. Two lifting it off the ground and keeping its body suspended, while two are (fwhoosh) whipping around in the process. As you're glancing, you see its head (cracking noise) glance up toward the wall. These blank, white eyes shooting around in different directions spontaneously, with this maddening look. Whatever this is is clearly insane and is currently driven on some sort of hunger bloodlust. The stitch marks you see across its body are very reminiscent of the earlier abominations that you saw, created by K'varn and sent throughout this cavern structure.
Liam: Keyleth's the only one who sees it, though, at this moment?
Orion: Do I see it?
Matt: You guys haven't yet. At the moment, you're talking to this dwarf or you're shoving him off the platform.
Orion: Can I see it as I'm cruising through? I see him?
Laura: We wanted to throw him as far as we could.
Liam: Yes, the twins pull him up and one--
Liam: Two, three!
Laura: Two, three!
Matt: (laughs) All right. As you chuck the duergar through the air, the creature who briefly had stopped, and you guys now see its motion stop, and you get a full view of its horrible form. (grunting, panting sounds)
Orion: As soon as I do that, I cast True Strike. (ftsssh)
Matt: All right, you cast True Strike on yourself?
Orion: On him!
Matt: On him?
Orion: What it does is, it allows me to see--keep going, I'll tell you. Go ahead.
Matt: All right, so it stops for a second. You guys all get a view of its vision. As it's looking up towards where Keyleth is, suddenly its head (shh) snaps back into focus as the duergar goes swinging through the air. As it does (snarling) it licks its lips and you can see now, where its mouth is, the lips curl back and the jaw splits open slightly with this horrible Predator-like fanged jaw, and the two tentacles that are currently up in the air reach out, grab, and (tshhh) just split it in two. Its torso then divides and sprays it with crimson as it (tongue flicking noise) licks it out of the air. (breathy growling)
Laura: (whispering) Go faster. Go faster!
Orion: I'm still going! We're still going. I'm not standing and watching.
Sam: Have we passed it yet?
Matt: Everyone roll initiative.
Laura: Oh my god, we're going to fight? We're going to fight this thing?
Marisha: I was going to say we should try and avoid him. Poop monster.
Laura: Oh, god.
Sam: No, we're floating above it. We've got advantage.
Marisha: Do we?
Laura: We're all stuck on a single piece of rock.
Orion: Yeah, well, that's the thing.
Sam: We're fine. One of us has guns.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And we saw the duergar get pulled under by skeletal arms?
Sam: By the bones.
Liam: Yeah, the bones pulled down, right? So it's not just this thing.
Matt: I'm using this as the figure for the creature.
Orion: By the way, Matthew.
Matt: Yes.
Orion: True Strike. I extend my hand and point a finger at a target. My magic grants me a brief insight into the target's defenses. On my next turn, I gain advantage on my first attack roll against the creature, using that spell as a guide.
Matt: Gotcha. So! For the purposes of this, the two gnomes are alongside Keyleth's eagle form.
Taliesin: Oh, we're going to use the little thingy?
Marisha: Yeah, are we going to use the levitating thingies?
Matt: What? Yes, we are. Let me pull them out right now over here.
Taliesin: Levitating thingies!
Marisha: Levitating thingies! Makes us look cool.
Taliesin: It's been so long.
Laura: Ooh, I like it.
Matt: There's the rest of you. Although, Trinket is a kitten.
Sam: Trinket is a cat.
Taliesin: Trinket only has the power of "adorability."
Matt: This is the stone slab over here that you guys have created. All right, so. Initiative rolls, everyone. Starting at... 25 to 20?
Laura: 21.
Matt: All right. That puts Vex at the top of the round there. And brings-- there we go. 20 to 15?
Liam: 17.
Orion: 18.
Matt: 18? 15 to ten?
Sam: 12.
Matt: Ten to five?
Marisha: Eight.
Taliesin: Eight.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Marisha: Team Eight.
Taliesin: Boom.
Matt: Pike, what did you get?
Ashley: Four.
Laura: Yay!
Matt: Okay, yay, Pike, bringing up the rear!
Marisha: Team Single Digits!
Ashley: Team Single Digits!
Taliesin: We'll get there.
Matt: Top of the round is the monstrosity. It is a very quick-- move the camera. Follow me this way. There we go. (all laugh)
Matt: It uses its quite grand movement of 50 feet to (shh) lumber over to this side, and it gets two attacks with its tentacles, with reach. Actually three attacks.
Marisha: On who?
Matt: This is going to be at you guys.
Liam: I don't need this foot.
Matt: This is going to be one at Kima, one at you and one at Tiberius as you are the three currently within its positioning view. First one is going to be at you.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: Oh, that is going to be a 14 to hit?
Liam: No.
Matt: All right, so you (whoosh) dodge out of the way. The one towards Kima. Oh that's going to be a 15 to hit, which it strikes her armor, but she manages to pull out of the way and it gleans off the side and you can see a little bit of this acid scarring across the edge of her leather armor. The third strike going out towards Tiberius (swoosh). That is (laughs) a critical one. It actually whips out and strikes the bottom of the stone you guys are standing on, which rocks it for a second, and you all essentially get worried but it seems to have no effect. That was a really terrible opening round for the creature.
Marisha: Here's my question. Is this all happening still over top of the bone pit?
Matt: Oh yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: That brings us to Vex.
Laura: Hunter's Mark!
Matt: All right so you mark him
Laura: Right on that guy.
Matt: Do it. He is Hunter's Marked and I'm putting this on here as a reminder of your mark.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: It's so fashionable.
Matt: Isn't it though.
Laura: I'm going to lightning arrow him. Oh, I can't do that because I Hunter's Marked him.
Matt: Correct. that was your bonus action.
Laura: I'm going to Hail of Thorns that guy.
Matt: All righty, thorn hail him.
Laura: Okay, at level three.
Matt: Okay!
Laura: Through my Bow of Blazing Bowstring.
Matt: Okay, so as you pull back your arrow, you pull it up, you can see the thorns (thoosh) actually grow rather rapidly out of the wood itself and as you pull back, the bowstring itself ignites setting the bow, the shaft of the arrow on fire as well as you release, rolling?
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22 to hit?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: Yes!
Ashley: Yeah.
Laura: So then I roll my regular damage plus 3d10?
Matt: Correct, plus the fire damage which is 1d10.
Laura: Okay, whoa. So 14 for the first.
Matt: Okay and then roll technically 4d10 because it's the fire.
Laura: 4d10, this is crazy.
Matt: Yeah!
Laura: Four, 11, 19. 21.
Matt: So 21 plus 14?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: 35 points of damage. Nice. So you release (soosh).
Laura: Oh plus Hunter's Mark damage!
Matt: Yep, there you go. That's why you did it.
Laura: Six.
Matt: Nice, 41 points of damage in the first attack from the ranger.
Marisha: (cheers)
Matt: All righty, so you release the arrow as the creature (woosh) shifts into place, it lashes out with all its tentacles and as it pulls back, looks like it's ready to pounce you release the arrow right towards its torso, it hits, and it looks down instinctually and it bursts into a spray of thorns all over its face and its torso and you can see it (monster screech) reels back from the pain, you can see the flames licking up over the front of its body. You can see there's a semblance of clothing on it. Whatever this thing once was, it's still wearing the clothing it had and a portion of it has burned off part of the torso. Whoever this poor soul once was, there is no shred of humanity left in it.
Orion: Before that ends I go, hop off.
Laura: Hop off? No way. I'm not stepping on this bone shit.
Liam: There's undead things in there
Laura: That's my turn.
Matt: And that's your turn, and you're holding a kitten.
Laura: Oh he's tucked into my armor.
Matt: Oh, he's tucked into you? Okay. That brings us to Tiberius, you're up. Tiberius, what are you doing.
Liam: Tibber-hoods.
Matt: What you got?
Orion: Okay, everyone hold on tight.
Sam: You're giving us opposite notes.
Matt: What you got?
Orion: How wide was the stone tablet? Ten feet for all of us to fit on?
Matt: It's about 15 feet round.
Orion: Perfect, I move us right above the butthole and, everybody hold on. And I fucking slam all of us right on him. (boosh)
Matt: Okay. So the platform comes cascading down at a fair speed immediately breaking over this creature, as it is a pretty thin wall to have only been about 100 pounds. It completely shatters over the top of it. Everyone who was on that platform, go ahead and make a dexterity check.
Ashley: Get it, guys. Come on.
Laura: I get two because it's favored terrain, right?
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Yes, okay good.
Matt: All right so.
Liam: 17.
Laura: 23.
Matt: Oh, Pike's not there.
Taliesin: 24.
Ashley: I'm not happening for a while.
Orion: Me too?
Matt: Yes.
Orion: 12.
Matt: 12. All right. So all the rest of you manage to leap off and tumble the best you can to catch yourself-- except for Tiberius.
Orion: Wait, do I make a dexterity check? I mean I'm not-- okay.
Matt: You do. You're still on the platform. It just shattered around you. So you however fall prone on the ground from the impact and land on the ground. That's also going to end your turn.
Marisha: Did it do any damage?
Orion: Can I not do any bonus actions?
Matt: Unfortunately not, due to the failed dexterity save. It practically knocked the wind out of you due to the impact.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: That was the unfortunate part of missing that dexterity check.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: However, it does deal from the crushing damage to the entity that'll be I'll say 3d10 points of damage. I'll see if it makes its save to reduce to half. Which it does. Rolled a 21. What's your DC in your spell?
Orion: 17.
Matt: So it makes its save, so it's half damage. Roll 3d10 and it's half that.
Orion: (counting noises) What is that, 19.
Matt: Okay, so it takes a total of nine points of damage. Crushing damage from the blow of the stone on top of it. Nice. As it (crssh) shrugs off bits of chunks of stone that are around its body, you can see a little bit of blood is being pulled to the seams of its body. It's taken some hits. It's still doing all right but it's definitely-- you can see it's not impervious by any means. That brings us to Vax.
Liam: All right, well, I use my bonus action to click my Boots of Haste together.
Matt: Your Boot of Haste.
Liam: Boot of Haste? But aren't magic items resistant to--
Matt: Oh yeah I was messing around.
Liam: Okay, yeah. Start sneak attack from behind. 32 for the first attack.
Matt: You unfortunately do not get sneak attack on this. It knows where you are. You do not get the round before it-- nobody else is adjacent to it because everyone else had to jump off the platform.
Liam: So no one's right next to it? I'm the closest one?
Matt: Currently no. You are the closest one to it because everyone had to jump off as it fell, and the fact that as soon as you rush towards it, its head (cracking noise) clicked over its back and looked straight at you, almost the neck bending in the process.
Liam: You block me every chance you get with this one. So that was the first attack...
Matt: No, this creature is really quick and very aware of its surroundings.
Liam: So first attack is nine. There's more coming. Here comes the poison dagger, which is 23.
Matt: 23. That does hit.
Liam: That is ten. Because of the Boots of Haste, I get a third attack.
Matt: You do.
Liam: And that misses entirely. In fact, I think I threw my dagger into the bones.
Matt: What did you roll a one?
Liam: A one, yeah.
Matt: Okay, so the first strike hits. The second one, you feel the poison energy pulse through the blade. What's the DC on that again?
Liam: It's 15.
Matt: That hits. You feel the poison (crssh) enter its side, and it looks down-- oh, it is immune to poison. Sorry. Oh, abyssal abominations! So the second blade goes in. The third one, you go ahead and swing towards it, and it (splssh) actually slaps the blade out of your hand and sticks to the ceiling. (whoosh) Thankfully, it returns back to your belt because magical belts are cool. All right, cool. That ends your turn. Kima's turn. Kima, who just managed to land, grabs her sword and reaches over. You can see the divine energy instilled within her blade. She is going to make two attacks against the creature. She rushes towards it on that side there. It's going to be yeah, 17. That'll hit. That's 27 to hit, and then a natural 20. So a hit and a critical. She's going to go ahead and get 15 damage from the first strike. Second one is going to be...
Marisha: We need to get off this floor real bad.
Sam: Well you're not on it.
Marisha: I'm not.
Sam: You can make a dance floor next to them.
Matt: All right, as she strikes it both times with the sword, you can see the first strike hits and the second one, she swings around and she instills with her Divine Smite, which does an additional eight points of divine damage. The second strike, as it slashes across, you can see the torso splits open. As the torso opens up, you can see a part of its guts spill out, and they begin to slowly pull themselves back in.
Marisha: Hell no.
Sam: She's Wolverine!
Matt: (laughs) Scanlan you're up.
Sam: Okay. Do I have a clean line of sight on her? Or are we too far away?
Matt: You guys are up in the air being held by her. Probably actually I'd say...
Marisha: I'm doing the eagle glide.
Matt: You guys are about 30 feet up right now.
Laura: Oh man.
Sam: All right, so I think I'm in range. I'm just going to blind the bitch. So I cast Blindness on her.
Matt: Okay, what's the range on that?
Laura: It's a girl?
Ashley: It's a her?
Sam: Isn't it a girl?
Matt: No it's a male elf.
Sam: Yeah, well I'm so demeaning to it, I call it a girl.
Ashley: Why is that demeaning?
Laura: Why is that demeaning?
Sam: Because it is a chauvinist. I know that.
Matt: What's the range on that, Scanlan?
Sam: I'm looking.
Ashley: Disadvantage on his roll!
Liam: You're in the wrong group to being saying that shit, man. (all laugh)
Sam: I'm drunk!
Marisha: Whatever. (laughs)
Sam: How far am I? I can't even tell. I can't see the board.
Matt: You're about 70 feet.
Sam: I can't do it.
Matt: You can hold your turn if you want to wait for Keyleth to go.
Sam: I can hold my turn? I've never done this before.
Matt: Yeah. Meaning if you're waiting for someone else to take their turn first, you can hold back until they do theirs. So you can wait for her to pull you closer.
Sam: Okay. I will wait for that, then, and I love women.
Ashley: Oh, we know. We know.
Sam: Biblically.
Marisha: Keyleth does a little dip really quick.
Matt: All right, gotcha.
Marisha: Makes Scanlan a little nervous.
Matt: All right. Clarota takes his turn. Clarota is going to... the situation's too dangerous to do anything Lightning Bolt related. Clarota instead is going to use Mind Blast against the creature. No that's no good either, at this positioning-- yeah no, because he'll get a bunch of you guys, too.
Sam: God, Clarota.
Marisha: Clarota!
Matt: Instead Clarota is going to...
Laura: Can he heal us?
Matt: No. Clarota's not really the healing kind. Clarota is going to cast Blur on himself to try and keep it from taking one of these points of wound damage. So he uses his turn to cast Blur. Clarota's form begins to shift and vibrate in and out of place where it's hard to see exactly where Clarota is standing. Clarota is going to take two steps back, unfortunately in the threat range of the creature. It gets (whoosh) a reaction to attack against Clarota. Thanks to the Blur spell, though, it misses entirely. So the strike strikes and it passes through with no effect. Clarota moves behind one of the rocks here, actually this far, for cover. That ends Clarota's turn. Keyleth you're up.
Marisha: Okay. I caw-caw closer
Matt: Like over where?
Marisha: Yeah, there's good. Shit, can't cast any spells unless I land. I'm going to have to drop down. Can I perch on one of these stalactites?
Matt: You can, but you're going to have to let go of the gnomes to do so.
Ashley: Do it.
Marisha: Can I drop off you guys?
Ashley: Yep.
Matt: You hear (bird noises).
Sam: What?
Marisha: And I drop them off really quick.
Ashley: What did she say?
Matt: All right, so both of you guys make acrobatics checks. Disadvantage for you because of your armor.
Ashley: But don't I get a plus ten?
Matt: Not for acrobatics, you don't.
Liam: Right. You're a bullet falling from the sky.
Sam: 16.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Eight.
Matt: All right. As both of you guys get released as you go to perch on these rocks.
Marisha: I'm going to turn back into Keyleth holding onto the rock.
Matt: Okay. So we'll put you there. Keyleth, no longer an eagle. This is out of the way. You guys both land here and here.
Marisha: But I'm still on the rock. I still want to be on the rock.
Matt: I'm considering you on the rock, but I don't want to have to try and balance you right there. Scanlan, you land, catch yourself on the bones, and you're fine. Pike, you sink into your waist at the impact.
Ashley: Because my armor's so heavy? (laughs)
Matt: Speed and the way your inability to catch your weight and use it. You just go (schoomp). Just stick directly into the bone up to your waist.
Liam: You're gnomic lawn art.
Ashley: Aw, dang it!
Matt: Percy you're up!
Marisha: Wait, I'm not done!
Matt: Right. Sorry, you turn back. So Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: The laser pointer's dead. Now I'm going to make a wall of stone. Wait, is there someone in the way? Is there somebody behind him? Is that Vax?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Damn it, Vax!
Sam: He didn't ask to be dropped there.
Laura: That's where we landed.
Marisha: Shitballs. All right. I'm going to do Grasping Vine, then. No, I should make us a dance floor. I'm going to make us a dance floor, then. I'm going to do a wall of stone. How concentrated can I do my wall of stone, actually? Can I do a wall of stone to where it's doughnut-shaped? Where there's a hole in the middle? And now I make a wall going across the top?
Taliesin: A doughnut of stone.
Matt: I would say, based on the description of it here...
Marisha: A horizontal wall?
Matt: Ten foot by ten foot panels.
Sam: Panels. Squares.
Matt: Alternatively, you can create ten foot by 20 foot panels that are only three inches thick. So yes, you can, you can create any shape you desire, so you can make it a doughnut hole type thing if you want to.
Marisha: Dope. So, I'm going to make a doughnut-shaped dance floor, and I'm going to make a hole in the middle to where he's still in the middle in the bone, but we're all on rock. Around this area.
Matt: So, it's just around all of you guys or underneath everybody?
Marisha: Underneath us.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm making a dance floor.
Sam: That was an excellent move by a strong, independent woman who doesn't need a man to tell her what to do. Or to validate her in any way.
Marisha: I want everybody--
Matt: You might not be able to get Pike.
Marisha: I can't get Pike?
Matt: No, because there would be a weird loop there.
Ashley: I can maybe try to Sprinter's Boots my way up.
Marisha: Well, as much as I can do, but I want to make a nice hole to where he's still--
Matt: I would say you can either get Pike or you can get these guys here. That's about where you're going to call it.
Ashley: No worries. Do some damage!
Matt: What are you going to do?
Marisha: I'm going to boost up Pike. She's halfway underground.
Matt: The wall comes out and it stops there. That's as far as you can get it. This whole area now is a wall. It pops you out of the stone as the stone lifts you up. You have to catch yourself for a second, but it's not so abrupt to the point where you get knocked off the side. You're all lifted up about ten feet. So just mark that area as stone wall. Got it.
Marisha: Except for douchebag.
Matt: Except for douchebag.
Sam: Now that I'm within range, may I go?
Matt: After Percy, and then it's your turn. You all get to hold at the same time, so. Percy.
Taliesin: Does he get an attack of opportunity if I run?
Matt: You don't know.
Taliesin: How close am I? I can't see.
Matt: It took one reaction against Clarota.
Liam: You're further than five feet away, because had you been five feet away I could have sneak attacked.
Taliesin: Oh. Well, all right. The first thing I'm going to do is shoot twice in the face of this asshole.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Marisha: Shoot twice into the face of the asshole, Percy.
Taliesin: 14?
Matt: 14 does not hit, unfortunately.
Taliesin: But 28 will.
Matt: 28 will. So the first shot, you shoot, the body just goes (sound of air splitting speed) and totally unnatural sense sees where the aim is and is already out of the way before the bullet gets there. Returns, but you catch it up with the second shot from the Pepperbox, and blast in the side of its chest. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Oh my god. This is awful. Six.
Matt: Six points of damage. All righty.
Taliesin: That's just embarrassing.
Laura: That's something, that's something, Percy!
Ashley: Hey, you know what? We're getting close!
Laura: That's better than a one.
Marisha: Pike is just an inspirational poster today. Like, it's okay, we can do it!
Taliesin: Thanks, mom. All right. Thanks, mom. I'm going to try to make a run for it to the stalactite by your hand.
Matt: Right here?
Taliesin: If I could even climb up on it, that would be very cool.
Matt: That's going to, with your run speed, you're going to have to do that next turn.
Taliesin: Okay, that's fine.
Matt: You don't have enough action to do that, but you get to it. Scanlan, you're up!
Sam: I'm going to blind him. With Blindness in his eyes.
Taliesin: Try blinding him with science, that usually works.
Matt: Are you using your hand cone?
Sam: I am using my hand cone.
Matt: I assume you do, for the most part. So what's your DC with that?
Sam: 19.
Matt: Good. All right, fails its roll.
Orion: Yes!
Ashley: Yes!
Matt: As you release the arcane essence, you can see this darkness spill up and completely cascade over the white, almost soulless, freaking out eyes of this creature. It's very Silent Hill in the way it moves. Suddenly, its eyes (shhh noise) fill over with darkness, and you can see it beginning to writhe and move around like it's unable to truly grasp the full surroundings. It appears to have taken effect.
Orion: Nice!
Sam: And then I give a little inspiration to Pike. I look over to her, give her a little wink, little smile...
Liam: Spirit her on with anger. Good job.
Matt: Take your 1d8 inspiration.
Ashley: 1d8? Okay.
Sam: That's all it takes.
Marisha: That's all it takes. (laughs)
Matt: All right. That ends your turn, Scanlan?
Sam: I think so.
Matt: You're going to stay right there?
Sam: Where am I?
Matt: You're on top of the wall, right here.
Sam: Yeah, I'm staying on that wall, yeah. I don't want to go anywhere, yeah.
Matt: Okay. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. So, from where I'm at--
Matt: Yes, on top of this wall here.
Ashley: I'm on top of a wall? I'm going to Guiding Bolt the whatever-it-is. (all laugh)
Sam: The whatever it is.
Ashley: And then-- okay, wait, hold on. Let me cast that at-- So what do I roll for?
Matt: You roll and add your spell attack modifier to it, I believe it is, to hit for Guiding Bolt.
Ashley: So I roll the d20 to see if I hit?
Matt: I'm pretty sure, yeah. It should be in the description.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: That's good, that's good!
Ashley: 15.
Laura: Plus anything?
Ashley: Oh, plus-- wait, what am I plussing? I'm so sorry!
Matt: Your spell attack.
Laura: It's on your spell page.
Matt: It's on your spell page, top of your spell page.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: You haven't used it in a while. Yeah.
Ashley: 23.
Matt: 23 does hit!
Ashley: Yes!
Ashley: Okay, so then we do--
Matt: 4d6 points of radiant damage to it.
Sam: It's also blind.
Matt: Yes.
Ashley: 15? And I'm going to add my inspiration from him.
Matt: You can't add that to damage. It's only to hit.
Sam: Save it for later.
Ashley: So, 19.
Matt: 19. So, as you look down, you grab your holy symbol, and even though it is cracked, you still feel the presence of Sarenrae looking down upon you. The divine energy coalesces in your hand, and you throw it forward with a divine wrath as it streaks across the air. It slams into the side of this weird twisting abomination, and as it blasts into it you can see its tentacles reel back and pull back in severe pain and it roars this horrible, screeching (bleeegrh screech) scream into the cavern around you, echoing down the hall. It's looking a little rough.
Ashley: Okay. And then there's nothing I can do from there, right?
Matt: That's your action. You can move if you'd like. Move along the wall, or hop off it, or whatever you want to do.
Sam: Come closer to me!
Ashley: I'll stay! (all laugh)
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Because she's an independent woman.
Sam: That's a proud choice, and I honor and respect it. I love women!
Matt: So currently, because it's--
Marisha: Pike's not the only one cashing karma points.
Matt: So technically, I should have remembered this, but you hit anyway: while it's blinded, attacks against it have advantage.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Matt: And its attacks have disadvantage. So, as a note. Top of the round, now, the monstrosity goes ahead and gets its round. It's going to go ahead and lash outward. Thinks people are around it, seeing the wall go up, it's going to swing out towards you. All right, that is a 16 versus armor class. Nice! So, as it swings out towards you on the wall, you duck out of the way just in time. A second tendril (whoosh, swish) reaches out and is going ahead and head forward... let's see. This one's probably going to make its way either between your foot or Scanlan on the wall. I'm going to roll to see who it goes for. Goes for Tiberius. That is 16 versus armor class again.
Orion: No. 17.
Matt: 17? Nice! Let's see...
Laura: On the ground, you look up like...
Orion: No! My big toe! Bah!
Matt: Third strike is going to whip around and attempt to grab... roll between both... Okay, it's going to go for Lady Kima. And that's a natural 20.
Laura: Oh.
Taliesin: She's a magnet.
Marisha: Even with disadvantage?
Matt: Well, actually, no, technically it would've still been a 15, so it's not a critical, but it still hits.
Marisha: That's good.
Matt: Unfortunately, without her full armor, her AC is not that crazy. So it's not a critical. That's nice. That brings it to a total of 18 points of damage with an additional six acid damage to Lady Kima.
Laura: Oh. Acid. None of us have gotten hit yet.
Matt: And the tentacle (whoosh) wraps around her and grapples her in place, and she's currently held in place by its tentacle. She stays where she is. It is now going to attempt to leap away. It brings all of its tentacles to the ground and (whoosh) leaps up into the air.
Liam: Attacking before it goes.
Matt: You get one attack of opportunity against it.
Liam: 27.
Matt: 27 does hit.
Orion: I swing at it with my cane as I'm on the floor.
Matt: No.
Sam: Do I get an attack?
Liam: 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage? All right. It takes 11, and it leaps away, (whoosh) taking her with it, and here, it's actually going to land about there, and you can see as it leaps away and lands, the wounds you guys have left on it are slowly healing.
Marisha: Son of a bitch!
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: All right. I don't want to hit Lady Kima with any of my attacks, so I'm just going to have to do... I'm going to do the Blazing Bowstring again.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And I'm going to attack it twice.
Matt: All right. Go for it. Roll for strikes.
Laura: Ooh! That was a 30!
Matt: You have advantage on these strikes, by the way. Well, actually, let me see, because I think it gets a save each turn to try to get rid of your blindness, which it does not make.
Orion: Nice. Is he blind?
Matt: Okay. So still blinded.
Laura: 29.
Matt: Hits. Definitely.
Laura: And 23.
Matt: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage on both attacks. First one with the extra d10 for Blazing Bowstring. This arrow: once again, you pull out, burst into flame (whoosh). The heat is a bit strong for your face, but you release it forward; it actually impacts into your damage. Streaks across with an arc of fire, and slamming into its side, dealing?
Laura: 14 points of damage on the first one.
Matt: All right. Second one?
Laura: (laughs) What did I do on that? That was weird. 14 on the second one as well.
Matt: Nice! All right.
Ashley: And can I cast War God's Blessing on her and give her a plus ten? For an attack roll?
Matt: She's already attacked, but to other people, you can. And you can do it after they roll. If somebody rolls and you're like, that's a really bad roll, you can be like, plus ten! and it might give them enough to push them over the edge. It's not for damage.
Ashley: It's not for damage. It's for--
Matt: Attacking, to make sure you hit them.
Ashley: I understand. Okay, great.
Laura: But with Hunter's Mark-- she's still Hunter's Marked!
Matt: Correct. Oh, did you not roll that damage?
Laura: Four.
Matt: All right. Extra four damage from the Hunter's Mark. Tiberius.
Orion: Yes.
Matt: So, do you get up? You're currently lying on the top of the wall.
Orion: I look around, and I don't like what I see, and I try to get up.
Matt: Okay. You (grunts) stand back up. You're currently at the top of the wall; it's ten feet up.
Orion: Really? Okay, where's he again? All I see is mountains. Oh, I see, you put the yellow ring around him? And Kima's to the right of him?
Laura: Kima's being held by him.
Orion: Oh, okay. Great. I look at him, see what's going on. I (ping) my Ioun Stone, and I conjure out Telekinesis from it, and I guide it towards the monster's tentacle to unwrap it off Kima, and I attempt to pull it off her.
Matt: Go ahead and make an arcana check.
Liam: That's Telekinesis, Kyle! (all laugh)
Orion: Sweet! 20.
Matt: 20? All right. As you focus your Telekinesis, the tentacle begins to shake and is pulled off her body. Kima wrenches herself free. She is not currently grappled.
Orion: Can I also go like, (bash) Stop hitting yourself! (all laugh)
Matt: The tentacle starts slapping around its body, and it looks confused. It's not enough to do any damage, but it looks unsure as to why it's having a hard time controlling its own limbs.
Orion: I give a nod to Kima.
Matt: (laughs) Well done.
Orion: That's my turn.
Matt: All right, cool. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm still hasted, so I'm going to use a bonus action to go stealth.
Matt: All right. It can't see you, by the way.
Liam: What?
Matt: It's blinded.
Liam: Oh, it's blinded? But do I still need that to sneak attack, though? Or does it matter? Never mind. I'm running at it, and since Kima's right there, I'm going to stab the bejesus out of it.
Matt: Go for it!
Liam: I'm going to use Luck on that roll.
Matt: Okay. Well, you have advantage, remember, because it's blinded.
Liam: Okay, great. So that is a 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Liam: Okay. (incoherent mumbling)
Liam: Which part gets doubled? I always forget.
Matt: It's the dice.
Liam: So 19 goes to 38, and then the damage gets added to that, right?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: With the sneak attack, and the damage gets doubled--
Matt: Correct, and then the bonus at the end gets added on to that.
Liam: The bonus at the end. Okay, all right. So what that is is 47.
Matt: 47 points of damage. Oof. So as you rush past, you (swoosh) slam the blade into the side. You see where part of it seems to start and open, but it's starting to close up again. You reopen that seam and drag across, leaving a giant wound across its side.
Liam: Okay, and then with that knife in, I'm going to stick the other knife in and attempt to attack it and then drag it to the ground. Grapple it to the ground with my body as I attack. Second attack is a 25.
Matt: 25 hits.
Liam: Okay. That's seven.
Matt: Are you doing damage, or you grappling him?
Liam: I'll grapple.
Matt: Okay, so there's no damage on this. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Liam: Okay. 20. Natural 20. (all cheer)
Matt: Nice! So you grab it, and you pull it. You have it currently held. Its physical body is pulled to the ground, and you can see its arms are trying to pull it up off the ground, and (slurpy noises) flipping around. Complete chaos in the air. You imagine you'll probably have a hard time holding it down, but for now it's currently blinded and grappled.
Liam: With haste, I have a third attack.
Matt: You do.
Liam: I'm going to drag across its throat. That is a 25.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: And that's seven.
Matt: You don't get the bonus-- oh, for the extra attack you do, because it's with your main arm. So, seven damage? All right. Cool. You bring the blade across, and you can see the blood begin to pour out from it, and as it does, you can see the throat opens up, and where you cut on the throat you can see what looks like white gleaming teeth on the inside of its throat. The entire interior of its trachea is coated with teeth.
All: (noises of disgust)
Sam: It has a maw?
Matt: Kima's turn. Kima sees you holding it down. Takes the sword, swings it, and is going to come on down, spending a level-three spell as a Divine Smite against it. That hits with a 22. This advantage is kicking its ass. Second attack.
Laura: Nice Blind, Scanlan.
Matt: Oof. Yeah. Both hit. All right. 36 points of damage, and a divine strike. And 12 points on the second blow. As she comes down and slams it with the big sword twice, the first one arcing down with divine energy, streaking across the barely-lit cavernous area. It hits the ground, and it splatters blood across. You can see one of its tentacles is barely hanging on by just a section of muscle and sinew. However, she looks down real fast, and you can see now these skeletal hands are reaching up and grabbing her legs and starting to pull her down. She's going to attempt to try--
Orion: Kima?
Matt: Kima.
Laura: Kima.
Laura: Oh, I wonder if that's going to happen to all of us.
Matt: She's unable to break from that. She's now being pulled down into the ground beneath her. That brings us to Clarota's turn. Clarota is going to move--
Marisha: Who all is on the dance floor?
Matt: Ugh, can't do this.
Laura: All of us except for Percy, I think.
Matt: Clarota's going to stand here and pull back and begin to coalesce this bluish crackling energy in Clarota's hand. The tentacles of Clarota's face begin to swirl and pull back into this horrible grimace as it releases this bolt of lighting energy that arcs past, just overhead of where Kima is, since Kima's been pulled down below. Lightning Bolt. Two ones in a row, are you fucking kidding me? I'm rolling terribly tonight, guys, by the way.
Liam: It's mostly in our favor.
Matt: Yeah. So that Lightning Bolt would do 15 points of damage. With disadvantage on its save. Still makes it, so (laughs) with a Lightning Bolt that does a grand total of seven points of damage--
Laura: It's better than one, Clarota! It's better than one!
Matt: Clarota looks away dejectedly. "It was the best I could do." All right. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: All right. Seeing Lady Kima slowly getting taken under, I make eye contact with her.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: What?
Matt: No, continue.
Marisha: Okay. And I make a Grasping Vine from that stalactite over there.
Matt: Here?
Marisha: Yes. And I'm going to take it and wrap it around Lady Kima and try to yank her out.
Matt: Okay. All right. So as the vine pulls out of the side of this rock (whoosh), it reaches out and wraps itself around her body and begins to pull.
Marisha: Around her waist. Not her neck, again.
Matt: Right.
Marisha: Yeah. (all laugh)
Matt: Good distinction. All right.
Marisha: Just wanting that out there.
Matt: Yeah. It's a good thing. So, Grasping Vine... yeah, okay. So it pulls 20 feet; she gets pulled 20 feet. I'll go ahead and say, make a wisdom check.
Marisha: I'm trying not to hurt her.
Matt: Right, I understand. This is more your strength of will versus the strength of whatever--
Marisha: Just adding my wisdom?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: 20. Total.
Matt: 20. So, as the vine wraps around her and begins to pull, she reaches over and grabs the vine for extra strength, and (fwoomp) it pulls her out of the wall. She goes flying over and lands at the side of the stone with a vine that's still loosely wrapped around her, but it's definitely pulled her free of the floor.
Marisha: Can I leave it to where it's holding her up, to where it's not touching?
Matt: Sure! Yeah. She's currently held aloft by this vine that strapped her. She's looking confused. Thankful, but also wants to be let go.
Marisha: Can I take a bonus action to shout at her? Be like, "Calm down Kima! Jeez!"
Matt: Sure. Is that the end of your turn?
Marisha: Yes!
Matt: Okay! As you finish casting the spell and shouting at her, you look down and notice the ground. (swish, shoosh) Begins pulling you down
Marisha: No, I'm still on the stalactites. I haven't moved off the stalactite! I'm straddling it.
Ashley: A little straddle action!
Marisha: I'm riding that stalactite
Matt: Go ahead.
Marisha: Riding it side-saddle.
Matt: It's really hard to be on top of that and cast spells and talk about this. (chuckling) It's a giant piece. I'm going to say, go ahead and make an athletics check.
Marisha: All right. Ooh! 24.
Matt: Okay! You manage to precariously stay on the top of this stalactite, holding on to it, casting spells and shouting out. All right.
Marisha: Jeez, Kima! Stop! This is hard already!
Matt: Percy!
Taliesin: I'm going to crawl and find myself a seat on top of that stalactite. That's my first thing I'm going to do.
Matt: Okay, well, at the start of your turn, make a dexterity check.
Taliesin: 20!
Matt: All right. You manage to pull out. Now make an athletics check to try and make your way up to the top of this rock.
Taliesin: Athletics or acrobatics?
Matt: This would be athletics, just to pull yourself up on the side.
Marisha: Rock climbing check.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: 13. Okay! You can decide whether or not you want to attempt to ascend this or make any attacks this turn, because right now it's going to take your full round to get to the top of this. It's a very thin, jagged, almost vertical wall you're trying to climb up and hold onto.
Taliesin: How far away am I from the stones? From the platform?
Matt: From the platform here?
Taliesin: From something I can stand on that's not sand.
Matt: You're probably about 35 feet.
Taliesin: So I could make it in a run?
Matt: You could make it in a run, yeah.
Taliesin: All right. I mean, in a standard movement action?
Matt: No. You'd almost make it.
Orion: What's your movement?
Taliesin: My movement is 30. Just almost make it?
Matt: Yeah. Right now, this wall's blocking you from even seeing the creature. As far as you know, you see a giant wall and you hear fighting on the other side of it.
Taliesin: I'll make it to the top of the stalactite, then.
Matt: Okay, so. (grunts) You get up to the top. I'll put this here as a reminder. But that's where you are right now. Okay, that ends your turn. Scanlan!
Sam: Is there anywhere I can stay on the dance floor and get a line of sight with the creature?
Matt: I'll say you'll be able to get right up next to Tiberius, right here, and be able to get line of sight.
Sam: And can I throw lightning and not hit Tiberius?
Matt: No.
Sam: (nervous laugh) Okay, then. Then I don't do that. Instead, I will-- I've got nothing to do! Let's say I will try to-- is she-- it's a he.
Matt: It's a he.
Taliesin: It's a he! God!
Sam: I have no ranged attacks. Except I can Viciously Mock it, so that's what I'll do. I'll say, you know what? Your tentacles make you look kind of fat, and the elf thing is played out. It's sort of 1990s. Orlando Bloom. And the whole bone thing is just really tacky!
Orion: I look at Scanlan curiously. (laughs)
Matt: Tiberius looks over. You look over your shoulder at at Scanlan with a curious look. Rolled a four. So essentially, being blind, all it can rely on right now is audio sensation around it. And it picks up ringing through the air. What hint and shred of humanity is within its psyche understands the Common you speak in its direction. And for a moment, it seems to sag all its tentacles. Go ahead and roll damage for your Vicious Mockery.
Sam: Three! Yes! It's the only ranged attack I have. (all laugh)
Matt: I was just seeing if there's another effect of Vicious Mockery.
Orion: He's sad for a while. (laughs)
Matt: Is there anything else it does?
Ashley: He's dead!
Marisha: Yeah, he just dies!
Orion: Negative two to self-esteem.
Matt: Vicious Mockery-- has disadvantage on-- okay! So it has disadvantage on disadvantage on its next attack. Got it!
Taliesin: Does that mean it has triple?
Matt: Nah. If it did, that would be awesome. Pike, you're up!
Sam: Oh! And as my bonus action, I'm going to inspire somebody. I don't know. Who? I look over at Liam and I do-- sorry, Vax. And I do one of these. (all laugh)
Matt: All right. You are strangely inspired by that.
Liam: I giggle-snort.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Pike. You're up.
Ashley: Okay, so where are we at? I'm so sorry. I can't see.
Matt: You're right there, on top of the wall, on the far back end. You can't even see the entity. It's way off to the side and a bunch of people are in a row on top of a wall that Keyleth created.
Ashley: Okay, so I'm going to use my Sprinter's Boots and get over. Everybody's healed; everybody hasn't really taken too many hit points?
Matt: You've guys rolled really well and it has rolled terribly.
Ashley: So I'm going to go around here. Oh, I don't know, can I have--
Matt: It's a very thin wall. Make an acrobatics check to try and move and tumble through the people. With disadvantage because you're in heavy plate armor.
Sam: But you've got inspiration.
Matt: You do.
Liam: You can add that to your roll. So add inspiration.
Matt: Roll twice. You're at disadvantage.
Laura: 13.
Ashley: What, plus eight?
Sam: You can roll a d8.
Liam: It's advantage, so pick the higher.
Matt: No, disadvantage, because she's in heavy armor.
Liam: Oh oh oh.
Ashley: 16.
Matt: 16? You just manage to barely squeeze through people without falling off of the top of the wall, finding yourself right there.
Ashley: Okay. So then, since I'm there, I'm going to cast Guiding Bolt again.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: And then I'm going to cast it at 4th level again. And then, which is--
Matt: Roll to attack twice. You have to roll to hit it first. Roll twice, because it is blinded and has disadvantage. You have advantage on it, I mean.
Ashley: 18.
Laura: Plus your spell thing?
Matt: 18 plus your spell.
Ashley: Oh, which would be 26.
Matt: That does hits. Go ahead and roll damage. You are at 4th level, that is 7d6 damage.
Orion: Nice! Holy crap.
Sam: Pike, perhaps you should spare it for your god, or offer it in sacrifice to your god?
Ashley: Sorry, guys.
Taliesin: That's a lot of math.
Sam: You know what? Women are good at math.
Orion: They are.
Taliesin: They are.
Sam: Probably better than men.
Orion: I would say probably.
Ashley: And then do I add anything?
Matt: No, that's just the 7d6.
Ashley: 26.
Matt: 26 damage, nice!
Sam: Good adding.
Ashley: Hey, thanks!
Matt: As you pull through the rest of the crowd, you stand next to someone, you grab your holy symbol again. This time, looking up to your hand. This divine energy materializes and shines down in a god ray onto your hand as you gather it with your fingers, it seems to formulate this actual thick rock feeling sensation. You swing it underhand softball pitch with absolute furious anger that slams into the side of the creature, bursting with the divine energy, doing a very sincerely impressive amount of damage for a small Guiding Bolt. It's currently still trying to get back up after Vax has been holding it to the ground. You can see it blast its side. You are almost pulled over on top of it by the sheer force of the impact.
Ashley: Sorry, Vax!
Matt: That brings us to the top of it now.
Sam: It's still alive?
Ashley: It's still alive?!
Liam: It's got that healing factor.
Sam: Can we undo its healing factor?
Matt: After all the impact, all the sounds it's hearing, it moves over to this vicinity.
Liam: Ain't he grappled?
Matt: Oh, you're holding it here.
Liam: I'm holding it.
Matt: It's going to attempt to break from your grapple.
Liam: Good luck.
Matt: So you make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Do I get advantage on this?
Matt: For this check, you do, I believe.
Liam: Okay, good. 27.
Matt: 27? 29. It slips out of your grasp, moves over to this vicinity here. And you can see now, the tendrils open up, even though its eyes can't see. You can see what looks like a bunch of gills across its body, slits in its torso and it almost looks like all of them open up into these tiny little mouths. You can also see teeth rippling through them and expels this cloud of green gas that (fssh) around everyone within ten feet of it. Everyone on the wall, right here. Clarota-- you are just out of range of it-- and Kima are affected. So that would be Pike, Vex, Trinket, technically. Clarota. So I need you guys to make a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: What?
Sam: (garbled) Make a constitution saving throw.
Matt: Pike? Whenever she comes back.
Sam: Who has to do this? Pike, Clarota?
Matt: Pike, Clarota, Trinket, Vex.
Laura: Should I roll for Pike?
Matt: Wait until she gets back. What did you roll?
Laura: 19. Oh, 19 and then for Trinket-- oh no.
Matt: Clarota does not make it. Kima does not make it.
Sam: I can roll for Pike.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Laura: No!
Sam: I've got this, guys. We're connected in a special gnome way that you have no idea how pure this bond is.
Liam: Here comes the one.
Sam: 16, plus whatever.
Laura: Oh, plus her-- wait, I'm looking up her constitution. Plus one. 17.
Matt: All right. Trinket rolled a...?
Laura: Seven.
Sam: (singing) And that's the power of love!
Laura: But I rolled a 19.
Matt: Right, as this cloud of greenish gas bursts out from all these strange slits in its body, you feel this acidic fume fill your lungs and touch your skin. You manage to duck out of the way and resist a lot of the damage, as does Pike, pulling up her cloak in front of the way. You guys take 14 points of acid damage. However, Clarota and Kima and Trinket all take 28 points of acid damage.
Laura: (gasps) 28 points?!
Matt: Yes.
Sam: For Trinket?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Is Trinket still a cat?
Matt: Trinket's kitten form is taken away as the Polymorph wears off--
Laura: Oh, shit. Boom!
Matt: (boosh) This bear bursts out from your chest.
Sam: Oh, no, your shirt is ripped.
Laura: All of a sudden, my bosom comes flying out.
Matt: So Trinket's at full health again. Hold on, the kitten form, I'm going to say, would have about five hit points, so taking five from 28... Trinket has taken 23 points of damage.
Sam: Pike, you just took 14.
Matt: 14 points of acid poison damage, as this entity vented its torso into this giant fume of acidic gas.
Sam: It would have been much more if Scanlan hadn't been around, that's all I'm saying.
Ashley: Oh, wow. Okay.
Matt: At which Trinket bursts out of Vex's torso, landing into the bones below. (growls)
Laura: No, in the bones?
Matt: Yeah, because on the wall (fwoosh) out in front of you.
Taliesin: Now we know how many hit points it takes to kill a kitten. That will actually be useful. Five. Five hit points.
Laura: Five hit points. That's good.
Taliesin: Five hit points, everyone.
Matt: All right. It's going to finish its turn. That brings us to Vex.
Laura: That's me!
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Is there anything-- what's nearby? Is anything within five feet of it?
Matt: Oh, actually, I should see if it-- it does resist. It is no longer blinded.
Sam: Oh, snap.
Matt: You can see the darkness fades from its eyes and the whiteness bursts from its face. It's intent now, as each eye individually darts around and takes reference of all the points of possible attack that are now before it.
Marisha: Wait, its blindness wore off? Oh, poop.
Laura: Is anything within five feet of it?
Matt: Trinket is.
Laura: Trinket's going to be affected. Oh! I command Trinket to move, then. Can he?
Matt: Okay. Trinket can, yeah, if you want.
Laura: Can he try to climb up and get away from it? Oh, no. He'll take a hit, won't he.
Matt: He will.
Laura: Do it.
Liam: If it hits. It could miss.
Laura: Oh god, but he's so low on health.
Ashley: Where's he at?
Laura: He's right next to it! Get up, Trinket, get up on the wall. And I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns on the thing.
Matt: What's the radius on Hail of Thorns?
Laura: Five feet.
Matt: Five feet. Okay. Trinket is going to attempt to get up the wall. Make an athletics check for Trinket, (laughs) who's going to try and climb a ten-foot solid stone wall, which is--
Taliesin: Bears can climb trees.
Matt: Trees, yes. Solid, smooth stone walls? Little more of... but--
Laura: What is it, is it an acrobatics?
Matt: It's going to be athletics for Trinket.
Laura: Athletics. I don't know what to add, but it's 19 plus whatever. Strength?
Matt: 19 plus strength.
Laura: 23.
Matt: Okay, Trinket scrambles up the side of the wall. As it does, one of the white eyes is looking around like an iguana (tchh) focuses on Trinket, (whoosh) goes to whip toward Trinket. That is going to be a 24 versus his armor class.
Laura: Oh, it hits!
Matt: Trinket takes 17 points of damage.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: Plus an additional five points of acid damage.
Laura: Trinket's unconscious!
Matt: As Trinket climbs up the wall, (shh, groan) and then streaks and falls back down onto the bone, unconscious.
Sam: Bear down!
Ashley: We'll heal him!
Laura: Oh, no! He's lying in the skeletons.
Matt: So you're now there up top. What are you going to do? You watched Trinket fall and hit the ground.
Ashley: Kill him!
Sam: Not Trinket.
Laura: Do I get to-- can I move if I attack, or is that it?
Matt: You gave Trinket your move on this turn, so you can still attack from where you are.
Ashley: Attack him!
Laura: Will somebody save Trinket?
Marisha: I'll save Trinket.
Laura: Okay, then I still attack him. But wait, will I do damage to Trinket, then, still on the ground, unconscious?
Matt: What are you doing?
Laura: Well, I was going to do Hail of Thorns, but I shouldn't because he's within five feet?
Matt: Within five feet.
Liam: You could do a regular arrow.
Laura: All right, I do a regular flaming arrow.
Matt: You've used your flaming arrow twice.
Laura: No, I only used it once.
Matt: No, you used it at the top of the round, too.
Laura: Shitballs. Okay, then I'm-- I have regular arrows. I'm going to use Bloodseeking Bow, then.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh god. I'm freaking out.
Matt: Make your bloodseeking strike, now, with the fury and anger and frustration--
Laura: 26.
Matt: Hits.
Laura: Okay.
Ashley: Roll for damage.
Laura: 11, plus Hunter's Mark. 15. And then the Bloodseeking Bow does ten bleeding damage each round.
Matt: Nice. Okay, when we get back to its turn, it'll have ten bleeding damage on it. You have your second attack, too.
Laura: Okay. 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Laura: That's 12. 13.
Matt: Okay. So both arrows (zoomf zoomf) sink down. You can see your jaw's tense and you can feel the tear running down your face, but you are intent on taking this son of a bitch down. That brings us to Tiberius. Actually, at the end of your turn, go ahead and make a death saving throw. For Trinket.
Laura: Oh god.
Sam: Death saving throw?!
Liam: Three successes or three fails. That's first fail.
Ashley: Wait, what? No. I can add a plus ten, right?
Matt: To a death saving throw?
Laura: Not so much.
Matt: It has to be attacks for you, unfortunately. So that's one death saving throw on Trinket. Tiberius, what are you doing?
Sam: This is a grizzly situation!
Orion: Okay. I assess the situation, and I don't like it.
Sam: The end.
Orion: No. I cast Watery Sphere on him, and try to capture the guy in my sphere. That is-- oh, plus this! (gasps) Oh my god, I always forget it's that number. It's 27.
Matt: 27? All right.
Orion: 18 plus nine?
Matt: I'm just trying to get familiar with this one real fast, guys.
Marisha: So he uses his spell attack bonus, I'm assuming?
Matt: Watery Sphere, you said?
Orion: Yeah. I was looking that up, too.
Matt: Watery Sphere. Got it here. Okay. Over the edge, and ten feet-- okay, it's not an attack roll for you. It has to make a strength saving throw. Saving throw. That is a 21. What's the DC for your spell?
Orion: 17.
Matt: Okay. So yeah. The sphere appears. The creature is ejected from the side right there. So the sphere is still there, but the creature is un-grabbed by it.
Orion: Does it do damage?
Matt: As far as I know, it just grabs.
Orion: Ugh. All right. That's my bad, I shouldn't have--
Matt: It restrains and grabs things inside when it has them. It works more as control than as a damaging spell, but the sphere is still there.
Orion: Well, fine. I can still move it, yes?
Laura: Can you pick Trinket up and bring him up on the wall?
Orion: She's got this. I'll move it over just to make him all soak-y in it anyway. It's not going to-- I can't move him. It doesn't control him, right?
Matt: No, not if he makes the save. If he fails the save, then yes, you have them trapped in the sphere, but currently basically (sploosh) pushed his way out of it.
Orion: Well, fine. I don't do that. I spend-- I don't do anything, actually. That's my turn.
Matt: Okay. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, so Clarota's right by it, so I'm going to roll along the back of the thing and sneak attack right into its back.
Matt: Right here?
Liam: Right there. Yeah, roll around next to him, one dagger in. That is a 29.
Matt: 29. Yeah, that hits. Damn.
Liam: (counts quietly) Okay, that is 33, plus sneak attack damage, so three, seven. Shit. 18, 20. That's 40 plus four. 44.
Matt: Rogues, man.
Liam: 51. I want to carve his shoulder blade out and away like a piece of turkey--
Matt: It's not a critical.
Liam: No. Critical's the double. Oh, sorry, scale that back to--
Matt: That's a lot for a non-critical. Holy shit. (laughs)
Liam: 20. It was 20 plus two, 22. 29.
Matt: 29 points of damage. Still nice. So as you reach back and you angrily take the dagger and drag it down, you actually find one of those seams of its arm, and you drag it across the front as the arm actually (floop) falls off on the ground and it squirms on its own.
Ashley: What's taking this thing so long?
Matt: You've managed to pull one of its tentacles off.
Liam: Next dagger's out. That was a bad roll, but I'm going to use one of my Lucks to do that again. That hits. That's 27.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: So that is seven points of damage.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Last dagger out. That's 26, for eight points of damage.
Matt: Nice. Eight points of damage, got it. Great!
Ashley: How is this thing not dead?!
Matt: Kima is going to rush around here.
Marisha: Don't be stupid, Kima!
Sam: What is it with you and Kima?
Marisha: She's been stupid, all right?
Laura: What are you talking about? She's a paladin!
Sam: She's fighting with us! Don't dispirit her while we're fighting!
Liam: This is really awkward for the rest of us, just so you know. We really like her.
Matt: Kima's going to attack twice with her greatsword.
Marisha: I don't like her.
Sam: I don't like her either, but I'm not openly hostile to her.
Matt: Kima goes to strike twice, but with each blade strike, the head glimpses over, sees the attack and the body bends out of the way of the first strike. The second one, a tentacle actually slaps the blade out of her hand and she has to reach over and pick it up again off the side of the ground. The blind was very effective these past couple of rounds, but now it's back to its full strength and can see, and you can see now that it can see where everyone is, it's going to be much harder to hit. Unless you're this guy and this girl. That brings us to Clarota. Clarota can't use what Clarota wants to do, unfortunately. Instead, is going to--
Ashley: What does Clarota want to do?
Taliesin: Dance.
Ashley: Dance!
Laura: Dance!
Matt: You've had it used on you before. It's called a Mind Blast that the mind flayers did before in a cone attack that can stun things in front of it. But everyone's been clustered around it, so Clarota can't quite get a place that doesn't affect somebody else. So instead he's going to do a tentacle attack against it. That is-- oh, wow! That's a 26. That hits! Takes 15 points of damage and is grappled by Clarota. Clarota currently has his tentacles wrapped up onto it and is trying to pull it down with a combination of psionic energy and its tentacle grab. Keyleth, you're up!
Marisha: Seeing that Clarota just grappled him, I'm like, "All right, cool. That's good." And I'm going to use a Grasping Vine from the other stalactite and grab Trinket and see if I can--
Laura: Around his waist!
Marisha: Okay. Around his waist.
Matt: All right. You use another 4th-level Grasping Vine?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So the Grasping Vine-- from this one here?
Marisha: Nope, that one.
Matt: Okay. The wall is here, so it's going to have to curl around the side, wrap around the body. As it begins to pull, you can see the bones have already begun to reach up and begun to start pulling Trinket's body down. Go ahead and make the check for that again which is...
Marisha: What is it?
Taliesin: Will.
Marisha: Oh, will?
Matt: For this one I think it was to try and-- wait a sec, I'm just making sure. I think it was wisdom for the-- Let me check it real fast, just to make sure. This is starting to get down to the heavy. "Creature must make dexterity saving throw to resist pull." Yeah, so go ahead and make a willpower check. Wisdom check, sorry.
Marisha: 20 again.
Matt: The vine wraps around Trinket and begins to pull. The bones hold tight and the body is not moving from its position.
Laura: No!
Matt: It's a standoff between the vine holding the unconscious body of Trinket, who you can see is still moving and shifting in unconsciousness. The bones are beginning to rise up almost like this slow tide to begin to wrap over the body. All right, that brings us to Percy.
Ashley: Wait, so we don't know?
Matt: It's at a standoff right now.
Marisha: It's a standoff. It's tug-of-war.
Matt: Yeah. Not sinking, but not being pulled out, either. It's this stalemate right now between the two. The vine is taut and holding Trinket level.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to spend my movement to get nice and firm, sit myself down, pull out the big gun.
Matt: Okay. Bad News. You see it over this wall now. The top of this stalagmite-- it's about 50 feet to the top. You get to the top, you pull the Bad News out. You have a pretty clear shot down towards the entity.
Taliesin: Taking a sharpshooter shot. Natural 20 on the first shot. (all cheer)
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage for this one.
Taliesin: This is going to be so much fun. (counts out loud) 42 points of damage.
Matt: How do you want to do this? (all cheer)
Taliesin: I take a bead and I want to wait until the eye is looking right at me, and I want to take it right through the eye.
Matt: Okay. So as the entity turns around, its head cocked to the side, its tendrils (sucking noise) flailing around it, one lifting it up. You can see, it begins to reach up to bring a lash down upon the bear that is being clasped on the ground, its eye streaks around and catches yours. You release, pull back on the trigger... (gunshot) The impact blows you off the top of the stalagmite. You fall in the air, but in that split second, you keep your vision on as you're floating back and this whole-- this moment as time slows, not wanting to lose this moment, you see the bullet (ssst) into the head. One of the eyes now goes dark from the crimson impact. The jaw opens slack (groaning), with all the teeth exposing as the back of the head (explosion).
Taliesin: (maniacal laughter)
Matt: Explodes. All across Vax. Who was standing behind it, just (vrushh)
Liam: I love it! (all laugh)
Matt: The giant hole now, which is like you can see portions of its lower jaw are still visible, but the entire top of its head is gone. You can see parts of its flesh trying to reach up and re-form, and then starting falling limp as its form begins to quiver and eventually fall apart. The seams all begin to unravel and its entire body begins to fall apart into chunks. Eventually what's left is this elven torso that slinks to its knees (boof), takes a step,takes another step, and then falls onto its back, completely destroyed. The bones begin to reach up and take its body. Trinket is still currently being held aloft.
Orion: I see what's going on. I cast Telekinesis (fssh) and start pulling it up.
Matt: Okay, make an arcana check. You have advantage on this because the Grasping Vine is also helping.
Orion: Oh my god. Arcana? 12.
Matt: 12? You (strains) you're pulling, you're pulling, you're pulling, but unfortunately whatever cursed force holds this land is keeping the body--
Ashley: Okay, I run up and take the Mace of Disruption, which also has the holy oil on it, which fights against undead! So I take it and I go (ffff) right underneath.
Matt: All right. Pike, you're on top of the wall. You look down and see this happening with the effort of both of them unable to do so. You leap off the top of the wall, swinging the Mace of Disruption down in a giant arc. You slam it into the bones on the side of Trinket's body. As you do, you see the actual stone and bones around it cave in and shatter into dust at the sheer force of your Mace of Disruption, leaving this big old cavernous space where there once was ground. As you bring it up again, you begin swinging it around the outside of Trinket, releasing all of the bone in the vicinity. As you do, you also notice that the bone at your feet that's beginning to grab onto your legs as you landed begins to give away and slowly back away from you.
Marisha: Grab onto the vine!
Liam: It's scared of her.
Ashley: It's scared of me. Yeah, that's right!
Laura: Get Trinket out, and I'll pull Pike up.
Marisha: Okay, I pull the bear out.
Matt: Between the two of you guys, you manage to, now that it's been released from the bone, as Tiberius (strains) lifts up and the vine grasping, you lift Trinket up onto the wall, and Tiberius you (thud) release Trinket on the top of the wall.
Laura: I'm healing! Giving a healing potion.
Marisha: Can I take my Grasping Vine and I want to reach out and grab the elven man real quick.
Matt: You reach out the Grasping Vine and you lift up the remnants of the elven man.
Marisha: Yeah?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: And I want to throw his remnants back onto our dance floor.
Matt: Okay. Well, the dance floor-- the wall here? So you chuck the corpse up onto the stone wall. All right, so you've all gathered around, you administer a potion. Trinket heals-- which potion are you using?
Laura: The minimum, because someone else can heal him, right?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. That'll be 2d4 + 2.
Laura: Seven. He's only got seven little health points!
Matt: All right, so Trinket comes to consciousness. (bear moan)
Laura: Trinket!
Matt: As soon as it opens up and the first thing Trinket sees is your face, Trinket begins to lick the side of your face.
Laura: Oh! (sobs) Buddy! I'm crying and I'm petting him and I say, "It's okay."
Matt: Kima, Clarota, and Vax. You guys are still on the ground. You can feel the stones and bones beginning to pull up against your feet. Clarota immediately begins to lift off the ground using his Levitation ability, and pulls free of the bones, lifts there for a second. Yes?
Ashley: Can I keep propellering my Mace of Disruption as I walk? On the ground?
Matt: You can. As you're walking along, you're just (kssh) hitting bits of bone. As you are, they just disintegrate and turn into dust. It's leaving a track. A little bit of a groove in the ground as you do so.
Ashley: Follow me! Follow the track!
Marisha: I'm going to loot this corpse real quick. See if I see anything with this.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: With this corpse. Does anyone want to help me? Who's got better investigation?
Taliesin: Sure.
Sam: Sure.
Laura: I've got it, but I'm busy with Trinket.
Marisha: Ugh, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah, never mind.
Sam: I've got it. 24.
Matt: 24? All right.
Marisha: Scanlan!
Matt: You start looking at it, and the clothes that are on it are soiled and destroyed and are just ruined by whatever process it went through. as you inspect the shoulders where the tentacles are, you start seeing these strange little fleshy nubs, and as you pull away at where the wounds were taken from pulling off, you can see there are arms inside the torso that were pushed inside to attach this entity.
Ashley: Can we--
Matt: Can you what?
Ashley: Go ahead. Sorry.
Matt: You can see a couple of fingers poking out of each side.
Ashley: Should we take the body?
Sam: Do we see any ligatures? Is there sewing? Or has it been stitched together?
Matt: The tentacles were stitched to it, and you can't see any actual stitches, like it's this weird thing where it's actually bonded to it, but it looks like some sort of strange--
Orion: I'll do an arcana check on that, and I already got 22.
Matt: Okay. There is a magical essence from somewhere in the torso, but you can't quite ascertain--
Marisha: From somewhere in the torso?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Do we recognize this elf at all?
Matt: (laughs) You don't recognize any of its face because it's gone. Bad News disintegrated its head. Unless you want to piece all the pieces that are currently on Vax together and try to reform the face, but from what you can tell it wasn't anything you could recognize necessarily.
Sam: I'll take out my dagger and dig into his torso.
Matt: As you (squishy flesh sounds) begin to pull out bits, the rest of you guys manage to make your way up to the top of this stone wall now. You're all for the most part safe, for the time being.
Taliesin: Thank you for that.
Matt: Sorry. You cut through the body. You start seeing there are just layers and layers of teeth growing out of all portions in the interior of it. You find the fingers are attached to a hand, which are attached to a wrist. You pull a little bit, and with this horrible sickening (fssht) sound you manage to pull an arm out from inside the torso, covered in its own blood and fluids.
Orion: Prestidigitation! Clean that up.
Matt: You clean it off. The magical essence you were seeing earlier actually is coming from a set of metallic bracers that are on the wrists.
Sam: Take them! I take them.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Don't put them on, though. Don't put them on.
Orion: I'll inspect them.
Liam: They're cursed.
Matt: Okay. Make an arcana check.
Orion: Let's see. 13.
Matt: 13? It takes you a while, but you manage to get an idea of what the essence of the magic is.
Marisha: I think it's for you, Vex.
Laura: Oh, really? Let me see it.
Orion: Translated, it's Bracers of Archery. You should check it out.
Ashley: Can I cast Cure Wounds on Trinket? And I cast him to 20. Second level. I rolled.
Matt: You rolled a 20 total?
Ashley: Yeah. 20 total.
Matt: Okay. So Trinket heals 20 more hit points.
Laura: Oh, yay! Really?
Matt: So keep tabs on that because that will carry over into the next session. All right. So you guys are now standing aloft, on the wall. You can barely see past, about another 120, 150 feet ahead of you, the sea of bone chips and glass seems to eventually fade into more stone.
Marisha: Let's get out of here.
Sam: Hey, will you lead the way, Pike, with your crazy mace path?
Liam: Air guitar us out of here?
Ashley: Can I keep on? (guitar noises)
Orion: Actually, wait a minute. Hold on a sec. My water sphere is still there, isn't it? I'm going to take it and push it along our way as well, in front of her who's swinging it as well.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Push it up to 30 feet.
Matt: So you're pushing this behind her?
Orion: In front of her. Just a nice little (pssht) like 30 feet from where we are.
Matt: Okay. So the sphere crests ahead as you guys push forward. Pike, you're taking your mace of disruption with your shield up and you're slamming it before you. As it does there's just plumes of dust that are being cast in the air behind you guys. You cough a little bit as it's lifting the small spray of dust. You begin to make your way across this open field of bone and glass to the other side, finding for the first time in a little bit of time solid stone ground. You all take a moment and gather your breath, and as you're taking a moment, you look over and you can see in the darkness ahead of you what looks to be a faint source of light around another large pillar or cluster of stone in the distance.
Ashley: Is it a color?
Laura: Do I see any tracks around?
Matt: It's reddish-orange and appears to have a flicker to it.
Laura: Do I see tracks? Can I sense goliath tracks?
Matt: Go ahead and roll a survival check.
Sam: How far away is it from us?
Matt: It's probably about 70, 80 feet.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25? You see more duergar feet patterns, and you see those same singular tracks.
Liam: And you said it's flickering, the light?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Probably a campfire.
Sam: Let's go kick some ass.
Marisha: Want to go see?
Liam: I'll go take a look.
Matt: Roll stealth.
Marisha: Take a short rest there.
Sam: Do we need it? Is anyone hurt?
Marisha: Just a short one.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25?
Liam: Everyone rest while I go peek, because I'm fine.
Sam: We don't need rest for spells, we just need rest for health, right?
Marisha: Just a short rest, yeah, so I can recharge my animal changes.
Ashley: If we take a short rest, do we get any spells back?
Matt: No spells back, unfortunately. You guys stay back while you go ahead and stealth your way up. Did you roll disadvantage on that one?
Liam: Disadvantage?
Sam: Your foot.
Laura: Because of your foot!
Liam: But the cloak then cancels it out.
Matt: That's right, yes, so you're fine. It's a natural roll.
Liam: So 25.
Matt: 25, okay. So you make your way through the darkness, around the side of the stone platform and as you crest your vision, you can see the flickering is indeed a small campfire. Not used for light, but apparently used for cooking as the scent also hits you. There is some sort of meat currently being cooked on this flame.
Liam: Does it smell good?
Matt: It smells pretty good. You're not quite sure what the source of the meat is. You worry for a second because you see the two duergar that are sitting there, currently holding the meat in the center of this, are staying next to a giant troll who has his hand on the side of a rickety wooden cart. On this cart, which you can see, there are two sets of wheels on each side, there is a large lumbering goliath individual currently held down with bands of iron. Your mind for second thinks, "Oh god, are they eating him?" but you see he appears to be intact, though with a quick glance as you peer around the other side of the stone column, you can see his body is riddled with scratches and small wounds and incisions, and you can see where streaks of dried blood are across his entire body.
Laura: They're going to try to make him into one of the stitch monsters!
Marisha: Yes, they are.
Laura: We're not there.
Matt: You also do see, across the way there are three tents set up around this area. One of the tents opens up and you see a duergar female step out: silver circlet across her forehead, long robes. Queen Ulara walks up and starts talking to the other duergar, pointing to your goliath friend, to Grog, on the front of this. Motions to the other two and steps back into the tent, closing it behind her as the two other duergar grin. One reaches into his pouch and begins to pull out small, looks like metal hooked utensils, possibly to go in for another round of whatever they'd been doing.
Ashley: I'm going to kill that bitch!
Liam: Into my earring, (whispers) Come, now.
Orion: Ooh! Vax just said we should go!
Laura: (whispers) We should go!
Matt: And this is where we're going to end today's session. (all groan)
Sam: Wow. That was exciting, and I feel empowering to a lot of the female-- (all laugh)
Orion: Female viewers, absolutely.
Sam: Pike did a lot of important things.
Orion: Absolutely, I would agree.
Zac: Hola, everybody!
All: Hola!
Zac: (sighs) That was intense again! You guys are giving me anxiety attacks, you guys and Felicia being in the chat room the whole time. So I wanted to shout out some thank yous. Oh, and you guys still have time if you scroll down on the main page to 826LA donate button, click on that and donate for these guys, for the wonderful work that they're doing, and we're getting ready to read out all of your donation messages on the stream.
Matt: Yes, thank you guys so much for donating to 826LA. They're an amazing charity and your support is very much appreciated.
Zac: First off, we wanted to thank a couple people that provided the food for tonight.
All: Yeah!
Zac: ManaGeek Moosiyuk, Moosiuk?
Matt: Moosiuk! ManaGeek! Thank you guys!
Zac: And Timothy Hudson and Amir.
Matt: Thank you, Amir!
Laura: It was so good!
Zac: Donation messages...
Matt: Just a note, guys, good choice tonight on the abyssal abomination.
Laura: Oh, they did that?!
Zac: That was the chat room.
Laura: You did that?!
Marisha: They did, yeah...
Ashley: Chat room!
Laura: That was mean!
Taliesin: You almost killed a bear.
Zac: Okay, guys. We've got a lot of these. You ready? We've got AxisOfAnarchy. "Less than three Matt, Taliesin, Ashley, Marisha, Laura, Liam, Orion, and Sam. #FindGrog."
Orion: We did!
Liam: We found him.
Zac: Vorack1024. "Glad to donate every week for such a good cause. Critical Role is an inspiration to my entire D&D party, and watching helps my DMing greatly. Thank you so much."
Ashley: Oh, man. Yay, thank you!
Matt: That's awesome.
Zac: Meg_TheDreamer. "#CriticalRole, thank you so much for everything with"-- oh gosh, these are so hard to read-- "with amazing stories, adventures, and great senses of humor that brings happiness and makes me laugh and warms my heart. Thank you so much for the love, my art, oh, twitter @TheAnimeDreamer and my birthday wishes to Meghan L."
Taliesin: Oh, Meghan! Yay!
Marisha: Thanks for all your art, Meghan. Your art's great.
Zac: ZandorInvictus. "Made the easy decision to skip the midnight showing of Avengers to catch the show. #LessThanThree."
Matt: Aw!
Taliesin: Easy decision!
Zac: You're a better man than Grog! I also suggest all of you guys hit up Twitter and give Travis some shit.
Matt: Playfully loving shit because the movie's awesome and it's great.
Laura: Yeah, loving shit.
Orion: Follow us on Twitter, and then help us.
Zac: Let him know that Overlord says he's in trouble. BeansyMccoy. "No, but seriously, I need a shirt that says 'how do you want to do this?'"
Ashley: I know.
Sam: We're working on it.
Orion: Yeah, we're working on it.
Zac: OutdatedReference. "About to run my first session of D&D this Sunday. Thanks to you guys for the inspiration, so excited." (all cheer)
Matt: Make it happen!
Orion: Good luck!
Matt: May your dice roll 20s and TPK your party.
Zac: WTSFox, thank you. TonyLoneFight. "You are all so amazing, thank you so much for sharing this, I hope this donation helps."
Marisha: It does. Thank you Tony!
Zac: UselessRogue--
Matt: UselessRogue, yeah! What's up?
Ashley: Hey! You're not useless!
Marisha: (shouting) UselessRogue!
Matt: "Assuaging my guilt over my vote in the straw-poll tonight." I thought you chose well. That was a fun fight.
Zac: Yeah. SilentKagosha. "Critical Role  adding a cave-effect to the audio when you are in the cave adds an interesting atmosphere to the show."
Matt: Awesome! Thank you!
Zac: That's what they did. He kept saying that in the chatroom and I was like, "I wish I could do that for you but I can't do anything about that." Too much work! BrrCold donated. "For Zac Eubank and all that he does." Aw, thanks, Curt! Appreciate that.
Ashley: Thanks Curt!
Zac: G1BigDaddyHef. "Working retail can be draining and I want to thank you so much for inspiring me and brightening my day. Currently working on creating a new campaign to try and get my coworkers involved in. I'm happy to lend some money to help out the 826LA charity."
Matt: Aw, thank you so much!
Marisha: We've been there in retail, and we feel your pain
Zac: Kedofett101. "If I can help such a great cause with a donation, the way..." Gosh, it's a lot, sorry. "If I can help with such a great cause with a donation, the way you wonderful people help me, then I'll give what I can. Thank you so much for bringing a smile to my face with your amazing work and the awesomeness that is Critical Role. Love you guys."
Matt: Thank you so much.
Orion: Thanks bud, I'll take all the credit for that one.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Zac: Resident Ogre. CritKarma.
Marisha: CritKarma!
Zac: KatyaisaLie. Thank you.
Orion: Thank you, Katya.
Zac: VerCatJoel. "You guys are amazing. Thanks for making this week more fun and wanting to help kids."
Matt: Thank you, VerCatJoel.
Zac: GeoNerd79. "I love you guys. So many emotions."
Matt: I feel you, GeoNerd!
Marisha: (laughs) Thanks, GeoNerd!
Matt: I feel you.
Zac: Poltergeist123. "#Lessthan3."
Matt: Thank you, Poltergeist.
Marisha: Thanks, Poltergeist.
Orion: Thank you.
Zac: And we're reloading to see who all has donated since. Okay, some more. HomeGrownHero. "I just got here. I missed everything. Can I watch tonight's show somewhere?" Yeah! If you're a sub, it'll be up immediately. If you're not a sub, we'll do a rebroadcast, and if you wait (whistles) four hours from now, it'll probably be back in the rotation, and by tomorrow afternoon it'll be up on the website.
Marisha: Geekandsundry.com.
Zac: Correct. WheelyFactoids. "Liam, do you prefer single- or double-edged blade, and Laura, what color is Trinket?"
Laura: Trinket is brown.
Liam: Double-edged.
Zac: Bam! Factoids! Zofer. "Amazing show, and a worthy cause."
Matt: Awesome. Thank you, Zofer.
Zac: Aldowin. "Keep up the awesome work you're doing."
Matt: Thank you Aldowin!
Orion: Thanks Aldowin.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Zac: TheFallenTitan  "Loving CritRole, keep it up." Also, "Oh-ree-awn, are you going to make any more music videos with Alex Lewis?"
Orion: It's Orion, Zac.
Zac: Orion!
Orion: Chatroom, accost him for that, please.
Zac: (whispering) They spelled it wrong and I just read it.
Orion: (laughing) Yeah! Actually, me and Alex Lewis / I8athumbtack are doing more music videos and funny stuff. Thank you for asking.
Marisha: Yes.
Zac: CheeseBug88 "LessThanThree."
Matt: CheeseBug!
Marisha: CheeseBug!
Ashley: CheeseBug!
Zac: ACrazyNexy "LessThanThree to the Critical Role team."
Matt: Aw, thank you, CrazyNexy.
Zac: Thank you guys so much. Just because we didn't get a chance to read, please don't stop donating. All you've got to do is scroll down to donate to 856LA or they'll link it in the chat room. Tune in tomorrow. We have Felicia Day stopping by to play Lady Games, so everyone will be dressed up in suits.
Sam: I'll be watching that! It's my favorite.
Orion: Absolutely. He watches it all the time.
Zac: We're playing Ladies and Gentlemen, and there might be some gender reversal going on in that, and we're also going to be doing a new card game that was just Kickstarted with Indicade, and we have musical guest Echo Sparks coming by, as well as So You Don't Have To with Hector and Becca. We will be doing some things to them that are not very polite, and making them play pony games because we have a lot of pony Steam keys to give away.
Marisha: Interesting.
Ashley: Ponies!
Marisha: Everyone, Matt and I recently did another Hot Pepper Gaming video. Another Hot Pepper Game review, so, go check it out on Youtube at HotPepperGaming. They're super fun.
Laura: They completely keep their composure.
Matt: Oh, totally.
Taliesin: They don't break.
Marisha: Chat room should start pressuring these guys to all do one.
Taliesin: What? No.
Orion: I've already put my request into Hot Pepper--
Laura: I want to do it!
Marisha: He's done one before.
Orion: I've done one before. I think I had the grossest HotPepperGaming.
Laura: Just snot running out of my face. I want to do it!
Liam: I do not.
Zac: They want me to show you while we're live, Ashley, the emote that they made for you.
Laura: I saw it! It's so cute!
Ashley: You guys made me an emote!
Marisha: They made an emote for Ashley?
Zac: Start post. She's watching the chat room guys, so just start...
Marisha: What is it? Wait, I want to see it! Pull up the chat room!
Laura: Is she an astronaut? That's what it looked like.
Liam: Is it a pony suit, is it Spider Gwen? What's she wearing?
Zac: It's an astronaut.
Laura: It's an astronaut, Ashley!
Ashley: Oh! Come on guys! That's awesome!
Marisha: Astronaut Ashley!
Ashley: Oh, what the heck!
Taliesin: There it is. Oh my god! That's so cute.
Marisha: (laughs) Wait, there it is! Oh my god, that's amazing!
Taliesin: They're like little Buzz Lightyears!
Matt: That's fantastic! Well done, guys.
Zac: Thank you guys for tuning in.
Matt: Thank you guys so much. Have a wonderful night. We'll see you next week!
All: Bye!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone and welcome to this evening's episode of Critical Role. Before we kick things off we're going to do the videos in just a moment to intro as we're waiting for a member to arrive. But before we get started tonight we have a couple special giveaways getting all the subscriber counts we can get. First off if we hit 3500 subscribers tonight we're going to be giving away a player's handbook signed by the cast of Critical Role, a dicebox, and one of these fantastically reconstructed horns of Orcus torn recently from forehead of the mad beholder K'varn. We actually have two of these available tonight as part of the giveaways. The first one will be at 3500 the next one at 3550 with the same package: The player's handbook signed by everybody the dice box and one of these horn props which were made for us by the incredible KommissarProps. This is Kai Norman. Kai, want to come in and say hello to everyone?
Kai: Yeah!
Matt: Show off your good work here.
Kai: Thank you.
Matt: Show off your good work here.
Kai: Hey guys!
Kai: I guess I should show you a little bit about how they're built. They're resin. They're cast resin so they've got a little bit of rigid foam in the back so they've got this nice kind of bone marrow look and they're all hand painted by me and hopefully you guys will --
Marisha: He's super awesome.
Matt: It's a good start.
Marisha: You should totally go follow him at KommissarProps. It's kind of hard so I printed this out for you guys. Follow him on Instagram and on Facebook. That's where you see the most about this guy. And go check it out. It's good for the giveaway.
Matt: He's a talented guy. He's providing these for us for the giveaway tonight totally on his own and he's also going to be helping us with future possible prop stuff for the game as it progresses.
Marisha: You definitely want to go follow him. I actually tweeted a picture from your Instagram account, so for those of you who are following me, there's a direct link to his Instagram account. Or just search this on Facebook or Instagram.
Matt: Indeed.
Marisha: Do it. Do it now.
Matt: So we have those at 3500 and 3550. If we get to 3600 tonight, you'll get the t-shirt signed, a dice box, a starter kit and we'll stay after and play some more Just Dance. (cheers)
Matt: Yeah! Great!
Matt: Also want to give a big shoutout to -- we might have a bunch of new folks from imgur today -- someone put up a really cool post about us on imgur and a lot of people saw it, so those who came through that, hello, welcome, you're gonna sit in and watch a bunch of us silly folk play Dungeons & Dragons, so it should be fun hopefully. Welcome. In the meantime we'll go ahead and roll the videos, we'll get some history on some of the characters and we'll be back here in a few minutes.
Marisha: We'll be back. Go follow. And then we'll pull winners.
Travis: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw! A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and shiny things! ...also ale. In his early years, armed with his two handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst (brawling sounds) Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. (brawling sounds) the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this... well, this terrified little thing. And his disobedience cost him dearly. (weapon crack) Beaten bloody, and banished by the herd leader, Beaten bloody, and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die. Exiled from his herd, it was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike, that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! ...or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house, where you pay for... lady favors. Also ale!
Marisha: A first Impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. (chuckle) Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder crack) based on first impressions. Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally! (soft chuckle) Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her peoples inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Kohren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader to be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself. Not knowing when, or if she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays in repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third child of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attention to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple, named Lord and Lady Briarwood, came to court. During a feast held in their honour, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods men. As they ran, Percys sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gun cocks and fires)
Ashley: Pike grew up in the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather, Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream. A dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal though divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. (creature growl and snapping) After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Sam: Oh, you havent heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr. Dranzels Spectacular Traveling Troupe where he learned the ways of the world and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down Scanlan yearns for the one thing hes never known: the true love of a fellow Gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, hell support his allies, but rarely draws blood unless its to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia, born from a politically respected family. At the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerers Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as its rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months, I would frequent the chamber and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms. Going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just dont pay attention to things sometimes. Ive also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I cant help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think Im quite friendly for a Dragonborn.
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the Elven capital of Singorn. But their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didnt last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. (roaring) With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve lifes challenges in his own particular way, often by sidestepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isnt enough, (sword unsheathing and slashing) the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who dont fully accept her. Born of a human mother and an elven father who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of 10 when the two were taken from their mother, and brought to live in Singorn, the isolated Elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods. She preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear -- her own stolen Trinket -- to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also he is adorable and gives expert massages.
Matt: Welcome back guys! We have some interesting aspects of playing tonight Orion Acaba will be here shortly, he's currently stuck in traffic. Unfortunately we will not have a Sam Riegel tonight, due to his schedule.
Ashley: Scanlan?!
Marisha: No Scanlan.
Matt: Laura Bailey and Travis Willingham, our loving Grog and Vex, are out of town in Florida but are Skyping in via modern technology.
Laura: Technology? What's it all about?
Marisha: We can actually see you guys pretty good.
Matt: We're going to try and make this work.
Marisha: It's pretty cool.
Zac: We're getting audio set up right now.
Matt: So we're getting this figured out. They'll stay in play as long as they can. They are three hours ahead of us. To be fair, we have friends across the coast that get up at 4am to watch this
Laura: That's true.
Matt: You should hang around long as you can. (strange monkey noises)
Matt: You should hang around long as you can.
Matt: We can't hear you right now. (strange monkey noises) (more monkey noises)
Matt: It's even better.
Matt: So as they're figuring this out guys. We'll let you know, we've already hit our first milestone for subs.
Matt: So we have a winner. The winner of our first package, which includes the player's handbook signed by everybody, the dice, and one horn of Orcus torn from the forehead of K'varn... Is the esteemed RhymesWithOrange! Congratulations RhymesWithOrange, you are the first winner of the horn. (everyone claps)
Matt: Well done. So we'll get that sent out --
Taliesin: Are you taking a selfie with the iPad?
Marisha: (laughs)
Taliesin: Sorry.
Matt: (sighs)
Taliesin: Sorry.
Matt: It's alright. So --
Marisha: Thank you again to our friend Kai Norman at KommissarProps for making the horn, go follow him. It's awesome. KommisarProps on Instagram and Facebook
Matt: Our next giveaway is at 3550. And we will give away the second and only other horn, as well as the rest of that package. And at 3600 we're going to do t-shirt signed, dice box, starter kit and we're going to be dancing for you afterwards. Let's see if we can get that by tonight. Also, want to give you guys a heads up, we've wanted to get some confirmation to you guys about the episode releases after the live show. Because we have a lot of people who watch the show who can't watch it live.
Matt: The episodes are available immediately afterward on Twitch if you're a subscriber. So the morning after the show, if you're a subscriber, you get to watch the episodes immediately afterward. Plus you're helping us keep this channel going. All the subscription money goes toward maintaining the channel, all the people that work here throughout the week, all the other amazing hosts and people that actually run the programs here. So you help make this channel function.
Marisha: Only subscribers get access to the archives.
Matt: -- archives immediately. However --
Laura: (coughs) However --
Matt: -- volume.
Matt: To finish this thought, for those who aren't subscribers, episodes do go up now every Monday, that's going to be the confirmed time period of release.
Matt: So you can look forward to episodes up on the Geek & Sundry website every Monday. That's the scenario.
Matt: So, given that case, whenever Orion gets here he'll hop in, in the meantime, let's go ahead and start this game up.
Matt: So.
Ashley: All right here we go.
Matt: So, for those of us who --
Matt: Just a little heads up here, the party has just returned after a long arduous trek through The Underdark, beneath the Dwarven city of Kraghammer.
Matt: They were sent to retrieve a paladin named Lady Kima of Vord, who was on a vision quest to stop some dark evil that her deity Bahamut told her was existing beneath this mountain range, and needed to be squelched.
Matt: The party managed to salvage her from insidious torture, and through her aid as well as a Mind Flayer who had been outcast from the society and the colony nearby.
Matt: They managed to convince to help them as well, fought their way through the tunnels, past the Duergar army, eventually to the underground Mindflayer colony of Yogg Voril where they found that this entity called K'varn. This was then eventually revealed to be a mad beholder, K'varn, who had been pseudo possessed and given additional power by the Horn of Orcus, a great and evil artifact long forgotten, which had been found by this entity. So they managed to make their way into the temple, kill K'varn, tear the horn from it's forehead, however found themselves swarmed immediately by an entire colony of mind flayers heading toward the top of this temple. They managed to battle and battle, nearly losing a few party members, and through some ingenuity, escape through the top, glide over the city of Yogg Voril through this underground chasm to a distant embankment along the beachside of this underground lake. And teleport their way back to their base city of Emon. So they've come back to Emon, they've come to their keep, Greyskull Keep, and they've had an evening of rest. Upon waking the next morning, they've managed to get some breakfast, they've freed Lady Kima from her stone entrapment as she was turned to stone during the battle with the beholder, and had a conversation based around what should or could be done about this Horn of Orcus evil artifact. So here we will pick up again from that point. So the rest of you guys have eaten your meal, Kima hungrily doing so. All of you guys both sore and exhausted having barely seen sunlight for a little over a week and being probably the first or second good meal you've had since leaving Kraghammer proper. You all finish your food, Grog hungrily so, double the size of his normal intake of delicious meats and starches. Tiberius has not seemed to have woken up or found his way down from his room as of yet. However, you guys did recently receive a rolled up piece of parchment. A notification from the council of TalDorei, saying that you have been requested to the council chambers at some point this afternoon, around the mid-day sun, to discuss your return and the situation and conditions about it. And that was all it said.
Liam: I can't remember is Lady Kima with us at this point? Is she unstoned?
Matt: She's unstoned, you've already had the conversation with her last week talking about the horn, basically interrogating her.
Liam: And we said that we had it somewhere safe, but weren't we playing coy with that?
Matt: You were playing coy with it but you --
Ashley: I had gone downstairs to go get Grog.
Matt: Yes, Grog returned with it and you guys had the conversation basically saying Oh, it's safe, don't worry. It's fine. Grog at which currently has it in the bag of holding.
Marisha: But we haven't told her that it's in the bag of holding right?
Matt: No you just said you have it somewhere safe.
Marisha: We just said we have it somewhere safe.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Turn them up a little bit.
Taliesin: I am highly entertained.
Liam: I think we're getting feedback.
Matt: Oh, I see.
Marisha: Oh yeah, that's us.
Laura: Right! That would be us.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Sorry about that.
Ashley: We'll figure this out guys.
Marisha: That wasn't too bad.
Matt: This is the new attempt at technology with our out-of-towners.
Taliesin: It's amazing.
Marisha: It's working pretty well.
Taliesin: It is working pretty well.
Marisha: I'm kind of impressed.
Taliesin: Have we actually opened up the parchment and read it yet?
Matt: Yes, you have received it and you've inspected it.
Ashley: It's Tiberius.
Orion: Hey everybody.
Marisha: Yes.
Laura: Hey boo.
Taliesin: I don't know what's going to happen.
Matt: He's going to crawl under the table. There you have it.
Liam: Good morning sleepyhead.
Orion: Hi guys.
Matt: As a couple hours have passed --
Marisha: Good morning Tiberius.
Orion: Hi. Right.
Orion: Hello.
Orion: Am I here?
Liam: Yes you've just come down the stairs.
Matt: You've just now come down after many hours of breakfast have passed. It's now pushing around 11:00 in the afternoon comparatively, and Tiberius comes storming into the main dining hall of your keep.
Orion: Morning everyone.
Marisha: What is that?
Orion: This is my own bag of holding.
Orion: And I walk over to Grog and I open their bag of holding and take out my wheel of mending and I put it in here.
Laura: You got your own bag of holding?!
Orion: That's what I needed the extra gold for before I left.
Marisha: Where did you go to get that?
Orion: We're face-timing?
Marisha: Where did you go to get that?
Orion: Hey! Hi Guys!
Taliesin: Science.
Liam: We are the coolest.
Orion: I was like that's, "That's Laura's voice, where the hell is that coming from?"
Ashley: At least we think we're cool.
Marisha: At least we think we're cool.
Orion: Travis is there too! Sorry!
Orion: I mean.. Yes.
Liam: So Tiberius we're just waiting for you to awake. I think we should probably go and see the emperor, like you do. Talk about the little problem we have.
Marisha: Wait. Where did you go and get a bag of holding in the time of us sleeping and you waking up.
Orion: If you recall, I actually went to Draconia... when we all woke up to begin with.
Marisha: You didn't tell us that.
Orion: Why would I have to tell you?
Marisha: I didn't say you didn't have to, I'm just saying you acted like I should know and I'm saying I had no idea.
Orion: I could have sworn I cast that and said that last game.
Matt: No, you just stayed in your room and did it on your own.
Orion: Oh shit. (all laugh)
Marisha: Yeah. So right now you're crazy to me.
Orion: Right. Okay.
Taliesin: I'm also a little disturbed that it looks like that bag of holding is made of you.
Marisha: Yes it does look like it's made of drag -- that seems cruel.
Orion: Actually this is wyvern skin. We use it in the air force of the Draconian army. And when the --
Ashley: Air force?
Orion: Yes. Draconia has an army, 500 standing, 200 are airborne.
Marisha: But they have an air force?
Orion: Yes. Keyleth: Do they fly-- nevermind.
Taliesin: No, they just blow, they force air.
Marisha: (laughs)
Orion: We have trained and tamed wyverns which we have utilized and they are part of our culture.
Taliesin: I've never seen a skinned one.
Orion: Yes. And so I went to the local "shoppe" and purchased a bag of holding because I realized that I did not hold my own wheel of mending for a long time.
Taliesin: That was frustrating you, wasn't it?
Orion: It was extremely frustrating. Especially because it's my artifact.
Orion: Yes.
Marisha: Well that's good. It's probably good to have a second one of those.
Marisha: And it comes with water, how handy.
Orion: It holds a lot of things!
Marisha: How fantastic.
Taliesin: We should probably get off to see what the emperor wants.
Orion: Before we do that --
Orion: Where's Scanlan now?
Marisha: Not here.
Matt: Scanlan is currently in the room eating breakfast
Orion: We're all eating breakfast still right?
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: Hi everybody.
Liam: Not you, you've apparently been globe shopping.
Orion: Right. Scanlan? I was thinking about our last encounter.
Orion: I'm going to take off my ion stone that's kinda chilling.
Orion: This is a particular thing that you've seen me use several times. And I notice in the last couple of battles you've actually literally run out of spells to cast. I propose a friendly trade. The crown on your head allows you to do certain things which you have not utilized the last several rounds you've owned it. It seems you've actually complained about not having extra spells to cast.
Liam: Rounds of what?
Orion: --rounds of battle, Vax.
Liam: Oh.
Orion: I don't know. (all laugh)
Orion: So I assume that you could probably actually use this more. I have a tool that allows me to do it to begin with and it's come in rather handy as you've seen. What say you, Scanlan?
Matt: Scanlan looks to you and thinks for a second and goes
Sam: You know what. I'm going to think on that.
Marisha: (laughs)
Sam: Wait untill I'm more rested and solid and sound mind before I can make any sort of arrangements or trades here. It would be unfair, given our current state of -- (all laugh)
Liam: It's true Scanlan, you should probably wait until you're feeling a little more present.
Ashley: Wonderful plan Scanlan.
Sam: Agreed, agreed.
Sam: A couple hours at the local brothel and all should be fine.
Matt: He cracks his fingers, expectantly.
Liam: Welcome back, even though we didn't know you were gone. I've eaten. The rest of us have eaten --
Ashley: Were you gone all night?
Orion: No, just for about an hour.
Marisha: Oh.
Orion: It was a good trip. I needed it.
Ashley: Just saying hello to family and that?
Orion: No I just literally went to a shop I knew in Draconia and picked up the item. I wasn't sure if they had any in Emon and didn't really want to waste any time looking for one.
Ashley: Well...
Liam: Good on you, shall we go to meet the emperor?
Taliesin: I've eaten, let's politic.
Liam: I think so.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: This is so --
Matt: Can you guys hear us fine?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Just making sure.
Laura: Too scared to talk is all.
Marisha: Scared to talk?
Liam: Chime in, please.
Matt: Feel free to chime in whenever.
Liam: One of us, one of us.
Travis: Balls. Taint. Ale. Nipples.
Matt: That's our Grog.
Ashley: Hey, there's Grog.
Marisha: Grog!
Matt: As our wonderful giant, now filled with various forms of delicious food matter warm in his belly, gives a string of various curse words in enjoyment, and sits up from the table with a loud fart and you guys make your way out of Greyskull Keep.
Matt: Towards the outer wall of Emon, in towards the entrance to Abedar's Promenade, making your way towards the Cloudtop District where the palace itself resides. Is there any place --
Laura: Is Lady Kima with us?
Matt: Lady Kima is with you, yes.
Taliesin: Good.
Matt: Is there anything else you want to do or are you guys making a beeline for the palace?
Orion: I would like to take another 500 gold from the treasury before we do that. And I do.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Wait, what?
Liam: From the treasury.
Liam: You have to ask the treasurer.
Laura: How much do you want?
Orion: Five hundred to replenish the 500 that I initially took. I dont know if I will have to spend it at all, and if I do, I will completely share my plan with all of you. But I would like to see how what we do plays out next.
Laura: Another 500?
Orion: Yes.
Orion: That's all I do. That's all I want to do.
Matt: Anything else?
Liam: Have we had contact with Allura? Since returning?
Matt: Nuh uh.
Liam: Not yet?
Liam: I feel good about her being at this meeting.
Ashley: Someone just got really excited when we mentioned the name Allura.
Orion: I cast prestidigitation on myself and make robes are all super clean and nice.
Matt: Got you.
Matt: As you guys walk into the center of the Cloudtop District, you can see that her ivory tower, which once collapsed around you, is now standing in it's previous location, seemingly untouched and back to it's original esteemed visual.
Taliesin: That is the question, do we stop in first or do we go straight to --
Liam: Was there a time requested on there?
Matt: It said around the noon day sun. It's probably about 30 minutes give or take.
Liam: Allura's really the only person I trust.
Taliesin: Perhaps we should not walk into the palace with this on us, so to speak.
Liam: We don't have anything on us.
Taliesin: No, we don't, but if we did we should probably deal with it.
Taliesin: What.
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: No. Yes. (laughs)
Liam: Tibbsy. Let's go ring Allura's bell.
Travis: I'd like to ring her bell.
Taliesin: It's like having the internet right there.
Liam: So I just start walking off towards Allura's tower.
Orion: I'll follow Vax.
Matt: Okay. Everyone else go with them?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: So you guys trek your way towards the northern edge of the Cloudtop District. You round about the series of very nice, fine marbled houses, finely crafted stone. This is the affluent area of Emon proper. It's in the secondary city wall, which of course the upper echelon of merchants and those who have money are offered the secondary form of defense against the town being sieged at all.
Matt: You come around the corner on the fine kind of yellowish cobblestone road, turn, and you get to the point where you can see to the left of you is the giant courtyard that surrounds the outskirts of the palace proper. With the giant steps that lead up to the darkened purple marble that the entire structure is made out of. To your right, there's a few buildings and the white ivory tower that Allura lives in. You approach, the front door is closed. It still remains that giant iron knocker on the front that hangs loosely, like a giant wishbone that you slam into the front of the wooden doorway.
Matt: Give it a couple hits? (Vax nods)
Matt: You can hear it echo throughout the interior of the tall standing tower. A few moments pass, you hear the movement of chain. A creaking of metal and then a -- some sort of large shifting of a wood platform or plank. The door then creaks open and there standing, a little bleary eyed, slept-in a bit, but in the process of getting ready, you see before you Arcanist Allura. Her long blonde hair is half braided. She's in her darkened blue robes. You're used to seeing her in and see -- She opens the door, the sunlight hitting her eye. She protects her vision for a second before they focus on the rest of the group and she goes,
Matt: "My lord, you've all arrived! You've all arrived!"
Matt: And she swings the door opens and runs forward immediately to you, the first person that's there and she gives you a big hug.
Matt: She holds back and gives you a look over.
Matt: Her eyes are opened. You can see how honestly eager and happy to see that everyone's here safe.
Liam: I look over at Tiberius and just short of sheepishly shrug.
Orion: I'm used to it, it's fine.
Matt: She turns over to give Pike a big hug. She makes her way around the rest of the group.
Matt: "You're all... I'm so glad to see you're all back. I've heard there was some difficulties happening in Kraghammer at the time you arrived."
Matt: She turns around and takes your hands, Keyleth, into her own and gives you a nod and a small hug. Goes to Percy and gives you a hug. Goes to Tiberius and gives you a big warm hug.
Matt: She slowly pulls away. She acquiesces to your longer hug... And then... pushes away.
Orion: It is nice to see you again.
Matt: "The pleasure is mine."
Laura: (sings) Awkward. Everyone: (laughs)
Matt: "The pleasure is mine, Tiberius."
Matt: And as she turns around, she sees standing behind the rest of you, there's Kima. There in her now freshly cleaned golden armor that she polished over the evening so she doesn't smell of Duergar sweat and blood anymore.
Liam: We've brought you a present.
Matt: There's this moment where they both look at each other quietly. And then Allura steps forward and says,
Matt: "Kima. Welcome back."
Matt: And they both just run and give this big embracing bear hug. She lifts Kima up and there's a slow spin. You can see this very very strong bond of friendship before she eventually puts Kima down and takes a little bit, she holds her hands for a second. You can see a tear running down Allura's cheek.
Matt: "I was so worried about you."
Matt: And Kima sheepishly turns her eyes to the side and says,
Matt: "Sorry for the all the trouble."
Orion: Story of my life. (all laugh)
Orion: Seriously Matthew?! Come on!
Matt: What?! (all laugh)
Matt: They're good friends.
Liam: Friends! Friends!
Marisha: (laughs)
Orion: Friends.
Matt: Your assumptions, dragonborn. (all laugh)
Liam: Don't mug yourself.
Taliesin: That's great.
Liam: Come correct. Don't mug yourself.
Matt: (laughs)
Matt: They take a moment to just nod at each other. She reaches her hand out in front of Kima's head and rustles her hair for a second and says,
Matt: "You had many of us worried sick you can't keep running off like that."
Matt: And Kima says,
Matt: "I know, I know."
Matt: Then Allura turns to the rest of the group and says,
Matt: "Thank you all so, so very much. You've done the realm and myself a great service in bringing her back."
Matt: At which point, Kima says,
Matt: "Bring me back? They helped me complete my quest! You've made some strong allies, Allie."
Matt: And Allura starts heading back into her tower and says,
Marisha: Allie?
Matt: And Allura starts heading back into her tower and says,
Matt: "Well? Come. Enter. I have tea ready."
Laura: I like it.
Matt: "Well? Come. Enter. I have tea ready."
Matt: "Well? Come. Enter. I have tea ready. You all look like you could use it to be honest."
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: "Come. Please."
Taliesin: Well, all right.
Orion: I love tea.
Taliesin: We have a moment we can spend.
Liam: Long story.
Matt: So as you guys all walk into her tower, you remember it untouched from your previous entry here. It's a weird moment to step into a tower that you were once in as it crumbled and folded on itself, to see it as if nothing had ever happened.
Taliesin: Is there a new rug?
Matt: There is not.
Taliesin: Ah-hah!
Laura: Hmm..
Marisha: We're not giving it back.
Laura: We shouldn't tell her about the rug.
Marisha: Don't tell her about the rug.
Matt: You guys step into the center of the room and she's talking to herself for a moment, saying
Matt: "Things have been a bit crazy here, obviously. Now that the floodgates have opened as far as discussions with the council and people who have maintained a backlog for a while. It's been a bit busy. But, this is a wonderful moment to respite. I'm greatly enjoying the company to be honest. Come."
Matt: She guides you all to the center of the chamber. Once again, there's that large stone platform in the center that has a number of the inert runes carved into the stonework. As you all step onto it, she taps her heel against the bottom of it for a second. As she does, all the runes glow with a bright flash of blue and a familiar sensation as that circular platform begins to lift like an arcane elevator, up the center of the tower, going up one, two, three stories. And as you're going up you're seeing certain sections of wooden library shelves set up at odd angles along the top of the arcane tower itself. You can see there are small stairways that lead off into doorways that seem to almost exit into the sky.
Matt: You've gotten into the idea that a lot of these powerful mage-built towers, the inner workings don't really match the outer exterior look. And there are rooms that shouldn't exist at certain points as you lift up.
Liam: I'd like to make a perfunctory insight check just to see if there's anything hinky.
Orion: I'd like to google perfunctory real quick.
Matt: You can do that. Go for it.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: On Allura?
Liam: Yeah, everything's probably fine. That's an 18.
Matt: Best that you can gather, she looks like she's a bit groggy, having slept in recently. But she seems extremely excited you've all returned and seems eager to catch up as far as what has transpired since last you met her.
Matt: The platform continues before it reaches the topmost floor of the tower before the slowing of the stone platform eventually comes to a halt with a slight jostling. The runes fade and you're all on the top floor of the tower once again. This is her main chamber. You can see across the way there is her large cush canopy bed in the far corner. There are a number of desks. There's a small arcane laboratory on the far side. Looks like it's in a bit of disarray, as she's probably in the middle of a project.
Matt: You do hear, as soon as you arrive, it sounds like the whistle of a tea kettle in the distance. At which point, she says,
Matt: "Ah! Allow me."
Matt: And she begins to walk over. She lifts her hand and you see a small drift of arcane energy as her mage hand goes and lifts, takes the water off of it's burner, and begins to absent mindedly mage-hand various teacups out of a large cabinet above the little kitchenette area.
Ashley: That's awesome. (all laugh)
Matt: At which point, everyone's looking around, Kima, amongst the rest of you guys, says,
Matt: "It's been awhile since I've been here. Everything's as grandiose and unnecessarily dressed as it always is. I'm glad you got rid of that old rug though."
Laura: (laughs) (scattered coughing)
Liam: Sorry.
Liam: (coughs)
Ashley: Was there a rug?
Liam: I'm fine.
Taliesin: I don't remember that.
Marisha: Stay cool. Come on.
Travis: This rug?
Laura: Nope.
Taliesin: Nope.
Ashley: Nope.
Taliesin: Not here.
Matt: Allura, who is now in the process of pulling chairs over and setting up a small sitting arrangement, a semi-circle, and says,
Marisha: Its so cute.
Matt: "The last time the tower collapsed and I was so rudely assaulted in my living quarters, it appears my rug went missing. It's all right. I've kept my eye out for a new one for some time."
Orion: That was unfortunate.
Liam: Magic, it's tricky.
Orion: I had no idea. I jumped out when that happened.
Taliesin: Speaking of tricky magic.
Matt: She gives a slow, knowing look about the group. And gives a nod like, 'I acquiesce to this, that's fine'.
Marisha: You should have some potted plants, Allura. Like some nice greenery.
Taliesin: You're going to try and feng shui the tower, is that what you--
Marisha: Well, why not.
Taliesin: I don't know.
Matt: "That's not a bad idea. Perhaps we'll discuss this."
Liam: This is silly.
Liam: Allura, it's a long story. Lot of deurgar, lot of mindflayer, lot of mindflayers, and an evil god?
Taliesin: A beholder.
Orion: Yes, moreover, a beholder.
Liam: Yes, but who was pulling the strings behind the beholder.
Marisha: He thought he was an evil god. A beholder with a god complex?
Matt: "Curious."
Matt: At which point, as you say that, she does this with her fingers, and all the chairs rush in underneath you guys. And you're put into a sitting position. As you all sit, she begins to slowly mage-hand over each one of you a freshly poured cup of tea.
Matt: A look of concern comes across her face.
Matt: "So you found your way beneath the city, I assume based on the denizens you've mentioned, into the underdark proper. A beholder you say? Mindflayers you say?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "I first off must apologize, I was not aware I was putting you into such dangerous territory."
Orion: Ha! It was really dangerous! It was nothing, filled with just buttholes everywhere. Terrible.
Matt: "That sounds like a terrible city."
Orion: Mhm..
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: "Well, first and foremost, I apologize for that. I am incredibly grateful you're all seemingly healthy and still here. And you've brought Kima back to us which is very important."
Matt: "Well, I guess this is in order."
Matt: And she sits up for a second and walks over. And you can see she looks back at the rest of you and brushes her hand for a second. A sphere of darkness appears in the corner of the room where you can not see an entire part of the room. And she sits there and hovers. Just a little pocket of darkness.
Marisha: Aw, man.
Ashley: What's that?
Matt: You hear some rustling.
Marisha: We've been in darkness so long.
Matt: You hear some rustling.
Matt: You hear some rustling.
Matt: The sphere of darkness finishes and you see she's holding a sack of coins, that you don't know where she picked them up from.
Marisha: Oh!
Matt: She steps back over to her chair, sits down, and says,
Matt: "Just a precaution, I like to keep my private things private. But, a deal is a deal and you've done as you've asked. So as we've discussed, 10,000 gold pieces, to the lot of you, and my greatest thanks."
Laura: I take that. "to the lot of you, and my greatest thanks." (all laugh)
Matt: She hands it out to Vex's eager palm. It's very heavy.
Laura: Good thing I'm strong then, huh?
Matt: With her 9 strength, it sags.
Laura: Sorry about the hand gesture there, stop it. (all laugh)
Matt: Internet.
Matt: She sits back down, says,
Matt: "You tell me what else if anything has transpired, and I'll let you know what you've missed."
Ashley: Well.
Orion: We have Orcus's horn. So that's a thing.
Matt: There's a slight pause before the actual sound of breaking glass hits your ears as the teacup that she's holding shatters across the stonework on the floor.
Matt: Allura, still sitting in her chair, hands in place and says
Matt: "I'm sorry, what did you say?"
Orion: Yes, that beholder butthole that we had to fight, that we had no idea we had to fight, had this Orcus horn on his head. So we took it off and we kept it safe. That's what you wanted I'm assuming, to destroy it.
Laura: But we haven't touched it though.
Orion: No.
Matt: "All right."
Matt: She looks over to Kima, who does this with her shoulders up. Kima gives her a nod and says,
Matt: "To be honest, I wasn't sure that was the end of my journey. But it seems that great evil I talked about before, we killed it and took its source of power. Now we're figuring out what to do with it."
Matt: She gives a sheepish grin and a slight shrug in her armor. Allura looks to the ground for a moment and says,
Matt: "I don't know much of this object you say, but if it was the source of the creature's power, and it carries with it the connotations of Orcus, then this is a very, very ill omen indeed."
Orion: Yes.
Matt: "This must be brought before the council immediately."
Orion: Wait.
Marisha: The council?
Orion: The council?
Matt: "The council of Tal'Dorei, the council you are part of."
Orion: That helps.
Ashley: Are you going there, right now, also?
Matt: "Yes, I was summoned to it."
Ashley: We were as well.
Orion: Here's the thing.
Orion: Sorry, Pike. The thing with this particular item is, the more people know about it, the more dangerous it actually becomes. The fact that we even share this information with Kima and with you is a very dangerous thing to begin with.
Matt: "I agree."
Orion: Are the council trustworthy?
Matt: "Those who currently reside on the council are trustworthy, I assure you this. I've done my work with them for many years, and those that have passed have been replaced with equally trustworthy individuals. And, rest assured, I have my checks and balances in place as well."
Liam: I think what we're worried about most is the corrupting nature of this thing. And while the council may have good intentions, I think more than a few of us are somewhat nervous. What effect it might have on them, on us.
Matt: "Can you assess what the mistrust would be to not bring this before the sovereign and the council?"
Orion: Namely, if the immediate want is for it to be immediately destroyed, because that's what needs to happen with anything from Orcus, as you very well know.
Matt: "I understand, and I don't think you'll find anyone who disagrees. But I also don't think you should sow mistrust with the council by keeping any of this information from them."
Marisha: It's not about trust.
Laura: Uriel has been corrupted once already.
Marisha: Exactly.
Matt: "This is true, and was it not by your hand that he was freed and his family kept safe? Understand, that this is a man that owes you him and his family's life. I think he would take in to you, his ear bent in your direction quite strongly."
Marisha: Correct, but couldn't you also safely say that he is therefore fairly easy corruptible? If he had been corrupted before, even not if subconsciously, I'm not saying intentionally, but he clearly...
Matt: "You would know best what was responsible for corrupting our sovereign, as you did fight and one was felled, by it's own strength."
Marisha: I'm saying Lady Allura, that there is essences, there seems to be magical properties to this horn that corrupt even some of the strongest willed individuals.
Matt: "Then we must be rid of it quickly. And I think we need to at least discuss this with the council, if not present it. Bring it to their attention. There are ways, arcane... not very approved ways, of nullifying targeted memories." "The rest of the arcana pentsafocal have banned the use of such magics but if we could have approval, understanding the safety concerns of this object from the council we could override the arcana pentsafocal and I could employ some of these magics to make sure that once this artifact is destroyed or taken somewhere to never be found again, we ourselves perhaps would not recall it ever existed. And that itself is the safest course of action."
Orion: I agree.
Liam: I think that we trust you. And you trust the council. That's enough for me.
Taliesin: That's enough for me as well.
Marisha: Pike? Where do you stand.
Orion: That's definitely enough for me.
Marisha: Pike? Where do you stand.
Orion: Just so you know Allura --
Orion: I might have a solution as well for actually destroying it, so I will follow your lead.
Taliesin: I think the best course of action is to trust people.
Liam: And we're incapable of destroying the thing on our own.
Orion: Oh, that's not true at all. I might have a solution which I just shared with Allura. I'm letting her take the lead on this, and when the situation presents itself I might have a solution to destroy it outright.
Laura: Why don't you share that with us now Tiberius, instead of keeping it secret?
Liam: Just give us a rough sketch, maybe? instead of keeping it secret?
Orion: Very well.
Orion: I'll pull out my bag of holding.
Orion: This.
Marisha: The mending wheel?
Orion: No, the bag.
Laura: An empty fist?
Liam: He pulled out the bag.
Marisha: Okay. Would you care to elaborate, Tiberius?
Orion: I'm sorry. This part of the thing I wanted to tell all of you at breakfast. The idea is, with some research I've come to find that if anything is in a bag of holding, and the bag of holding itself is destroyed, the items or whatever go into a somewhat void, that cannot be retrieved by any one particular thing. If we are to have our memories erased, as you say, then it would guarantee that when we place the thing in a bag of holding and destroy that bag, it will then be dissipated into that void.
Matt: At which point, Allura raises her hand and says,
Matt: "Tiberius. You, as a very trained sorcerer, have some knowledge in this regard. I've been crafting bags of holding since I was a child as a way of keeping my weekends busy. I have to notify you that should such a pocket of interdimensional arcane space is disrupted in this way, it doesn't send it into a void. It jettisons the contents into the Astral Sea. The Astral Sea which has many denizens that could come across this object. Githyanki themselves and their great ships."
Orion: I hate yankees.
Matt: "Gith --nevermind."
Ashley: So it could be bad.
Orion: There are things --
Matt: "There are many things that exist in the Astral Sea that could recover this item. I'm not saying there isn't merit to this, but I think it would be best we put it somewhere where at least we know for certain no one will find it, as opposed to just hoping it disappears somewhere."
Orion: But the memory thing is crucial.
Marisha: What about those who might be uncomfortable with toying around with my memories and tramping along around in my head, I don't really want --
Liam: Why don't you think about it for a while?
Travis: My head's pretty fragile as it is.
Liam: We're talking about erasing the path back to this thing, we're not talking about removing your adolescent years from your memory. Just this one thing.
Travis: All right.
Marisha: How many lessons have we learned in just the time. Wouldn't we have to erase all memories surrounding it? We wouldn't even remember our trip into the underdark?
Taliesin: I think we could perhaps just erase the memory of where we put it.
Orion: That is what I assume will happen.
Matt: "That is possible. Like I've said, these magics have not been tampered with in nearly 200 years."
Marisha: So we're gonna break the seal on some untampered-with magics and just experiment.
Matt: "I am part of a group that oversees civilization. I can't go into too much detail but they are responsible for keeping such ancient magics, long forgotten magics such as this. I would have to meet with and discuss and gain approval for its use. But for an item as dangerous as what you say, perhaps this is one of those special occasions."
Liam: She's working for the Illuminati and we're basically the A-team, so I think she might know a little better.
Taliesin: The A-team?
Marisha: What do you think, Pike?
Ashley: I feel like at this point we don't really have another option.
Ashley: And I do trust Allura.
Orion: I'm all tapped out.
Ashley: And I do trust Allura.
Ashley: So I feel like if we just go check it out. I don't really know what our other option is.
Ashley: That was a good one.
Liam: And if we don't like it we can step.
Taliesin: And if we don't like it we can keep thinking of something else. We have time.
Matt: "This is true. And who knows what wisdom the rest of the council might have in their midst as well."
Matt: "They have members from all across the world. We'll see which resources they have at their disposal."
Taliesin: I'm sure they're waiting for us.
Matt: "I am glad to be free of my usual business. Are you guys familiar with the Wilder Fens?"
Liam: Sorry? The Wilder Fens?
Matt: "The Wilder Fens? They're a bloody merchant guild. They've left our chambers in shambles. Look, since you've been gone and the council map has been brought brought up to speed once more, we've had to deal with the backlog of all the various council meetings that have been pushed back and pushed back for months and months. It's been rather nightmarish. So this, all dangerous as it is, I'm taking it as a nice change from the usual, pardon my speaking, political bullshit I've been dragged into on a weekly basis. Between Wilder Fens, and there was the Cortigian League from Wildmount, and they just tore through Emon with a caravan of partying gypsies that destroyed everything in their path."
Marisha: Who?
Orion: Damn gypsies.
Matt: "The Cortian League."
Marisha: The Cortian League.
Matt: "From Wildmount, the north."
Taliesin: We fought stitch monsters, that was mostly what we... it was guns and swords and...
Matt: "It's far more interesting. Most of our guests have been a bit rough around the edges. Although I would say we did manage to meet with Syldor of Syngorn. We have some business there getting Syngorn situated."
Laura: Oh, Syldor!
Matt: "And Lord and Lady Briarwood were rather nice to us when they came into the town. So, business has been... fair."
Taliesin: Shall we take this to the council then?
Liam: Yes, we have pressing matters. We'll get to that later.
Matt: "All right. Let's go to the council then."
Matt: As you guys make your way back down through the tower, you eventually venture through the castletop district in front of the palace. The guards stand there with their long, red, velvet cloaks and their brass breastplates. They recognize both Allura and you as you approach. They step aside, put their spears toward the steps, and give you a grand entrance to the front of the palace.
Matt: As you step up, the front doors open on their own with a large heavy shaking of the wood. As the palace doors open, you are led into the central chambers of the main palace walkway which splits to the right and left, and then across leads into the main throne room. However, you guys are meeting in the council room which is to the left. You've been there twice before.
Matt: So you're led over to the council chambers, which, as you enter the main circular room, you're brought into the nice hardwood floors, the dark forest green colored walls, these long tapestries which recall various battles of history and broad mountainous landscapes showing settlers making their way across dangerous terrain. You can see various weapons from different civilizations that were brought up as gifts to Emon that have been mounted on the walls as presentory atmospheric decor. And in the central room, you can see what currently stands, the entirety of the Tal'Dorei council, in a hushed discussion. The council, of course, has at the center, across the table from you, Sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei the Second himself. The leader of Emon and the current Sovereign of all of Tal'Dorei, this section of the continent. You see him with his characteristic dark hair, with greying sides, cut shorter than you recall. Looks like he recently got a trim and some very well kept facial hair. He's wearing his ceremonial robes which are the same gold and red color as the armored soldiers that greeted you at the front of the palace. Next to him, you see Lord Riskell Daxio, the elven male who helped you guys handle the purchasing of the keep when you were awarded that at the end of your last journey. He's the Master of Trade currently within Emon. You can see he has long strawberry blonde hair that is pulled into a tight ponytail to the back. He wears darker clothing, more for decoration than actual use. His armor seems to be loose and more decorative. Next to him is Guardian Tofor Brotorus, which you've heard of but have not met before. A female dragonborn paladin.
Marisha: Say that one more time? Guardian who's a what now?
Matt: Guardian Tofor Bratoras.
Marisha: To-for?
Matt: T-O-F-O-R. Bratoras. Her name's been mentioned before but this is the first time you guys have actually seen her in person.
Ashley: It's a girl?
Matt: It's a female dragonborn paladin. She is adorned in full, silvered platinum plate. That has currently carved multiple symbols of Bahamut, the Platinum Dragon. As she looks up and notices, you can see she gives a hand up, a symbol of greetings towards Kima. As Kima also gives her hand up and they both touch the front of their armor in a symbolic holy way, they both being followers of Bahamut. You immediately make that religious connection between the two of them. She looks across at the rest of the group there that she doesn't seem to notice, eyes meeting with Tiberius. This is strange. You haven't seen very many dragonborn at all within Emon, and as soon as she meets your gaze, she gives you a look of deep, deep stinkeye.
Orion: Hello. My name is Tiberius Stormwind. Of House Stormwind, from Draconia. Tofor: "From Draconia, you say?"
Orion: Yes. I'm sure you've heard of my father Kravanas, my mother Penelope? Tofor: "And perhaps you should close that trap and sit across the table as far from me as possible. "
Matt: She seems to spit the words almost, and sits back in her chair.
Orion: Mind your tongue.
Matt: The rest of the council's talking amongst themselves and hearing this slight discussion. Next to her there is a halfling male, in a ranger-ish garb, wearing what looks like some really fine chain shirt, with a thick dark black cloak. He is shaved bald with tattoos on one side of his face, and he introduces himself.
Matt: "I'm terribly, sorry. I did not mean for there to be any sort of misunderstanding here."
Matt: He gives a slight nudge to Tofor.
Matt: "I do not believe we've met at this time. My name is Seeker Asum Emring. I am the master of secrets here within the council."
Matt: He extends his hand towards you, almost like alleviating the tension.
Orion: Hi. Stormwind here. Seeker Asum: "I assume you're the ones we're waiting for, please have a seat."
Matt: At which the sovereign finishes discussion with another human which you have not met. He is a built and armored individual, stands probably the tallest of the entire group, thick square jaw, unshaven. At which point he puts his hand on the sovereign's shoulder and says,
Matt: "I suppose I should introduce myself as well. I've heard much about you, Vox Machina. I am Arbiter Braum Goldhand. I have recently taken up as of three months ago the position that General Kreig once held within the city. Since he was unfortunately lost to us, there was a need for a new master of law. As since I've had a lot to keep up on. Unable to meet you personally until now, but it is a pleasure. I've heard nothing but great things."
Matt: He sits down in his chair. Allura finds her side of the table and gestures the rest of you.
Matt: "Please, have a seat."
Orion: I stand. I don't sit.
Matt: All right.
Matt: The overeign finishes writing some papers, rolls them up, snaps twice, and a gentleman comes by. He hands him the papers and says,
Matt: "Get this to Lady and Lord Briarwood as soon as possible, thank you."
Matt: "All right. First of all, I want to welcome you all back. It's been a few weeks since we've seen each other. I've been recently given word that you unceremoniously appeared in the center of the Lyceum not but twelve hours ago, worse for wear. So I would like to know, first off, why you've returned in the center of our city. And I want to see how you've all been these past few weeks. I apologize if I'm a bit scattered Ive had a few things on my mind as of late. But yes, how is Vox Machina."
Liam: If I may. We didn't choose to dump ourselves right in the middle of the city. That was born out of necessity, not out of choice. The task we set out to finish proved a lot more complicated than originally perceived. Frankly, I worry about the safety of the city of Kraghammer. Underneath their home down in the bowels of the earth, I'm don't know how much the council knows about the race of the illithid. We stumbled into a veritable hornets' nest of them below the city.
Matt: Most faces are blank. Allura has her hands on the table, listening intently. As you say illithid, you do notice that Seeker Asum Emring, the halfling, immediately sits back in his chair with a look of 'oh, snap'.
Liam: I see a lot of blank stares at this table. I wasn't very familiar with them either. There is an entire city in the underdark beneath Kraghammer. And... ... in their midst was a beholder that was controlling the entire city. We ended up destroying it, barely escaping with our lives. Fleeing the city... destroying a god? I think.
Laura: I don't think we destroyed the god.
Orion: The beholder is merely a demi-demon.
Laura: Yes, it was something he had possessed, but the god still lives.
Liam: Yes, but Orcus was behind the beholder.
Marisha: We just have the horn.
Liam: We killed K'varn and then he got back up again. He didn't get himself back up.
Marisha: Because Orcus is a god of necromancy and undeath.
Orion: That's what the horn did. It brought him back to life when he would die. That's why I ripped it out when we did it because I knew that's what was going on. That's what the horn does.
Liam: I just worry that it's not just an appliance. It's got hidden in it something --
Orion: It absolutely has -- Remember, it laughed at me when I tried to crush it --
Liam: --is what I'm saying.
Matt: Allura looks at you strangely.
Matt: "Tiberius, you sound different."
Orion: I was talking to --
Matt: I know.
Liam: Be that as it may we riled up a city of --
Taliesin: Mind flayers.
Liam: Buttholes as Tiberius would call them. -- very unhappy race of things below the surface of the earth. Now, we're here today because Tiberius, crafty as he is, was able to flee ahead of us and create a portal back here. We ended up falling ass over tea kettle in the Lyceum, so here we are.
Matt: "Well, welcome back."
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: "It's glad to see you're safe."
Liam: We've brought a little bit of the evil with us.
Matt: At which point the table gets extremely uncomfortable, suddenly. As everyone steps back, Kima steps forward. She's kept to the back at this point, and says,
Matt: "It's all right. I will speak for this group as you also know of their exploits and their abilities. They saved me from what was probably certain death and torture and aided me in stopping what darkness was beneath Kraghammer. At least what we could. But, listen to what they have to say and understand they are as trustworthy as they come."
Matt: At which point the sovereign lifts a hand up to her and says,
Matt: "Well Kima, your word is trusted and I appreciate you also have returned to us healthy. So. What is this evil you bring with you?"
Liam: We have it stored safely away.
Marisha: Yes.
Liam: But this beholder... ... was using an artifact, a horn. Emanating darkness and shit. And Tiberius, in the heat of the battle, ripped it from its pate. And we brought it back with us.
Marisha: It is one of the two horns of Orcus.
Matt: At that notification, you say the name Orcus, and you can see there's a whole energy shift in the room at which point. A lot of furrowed brows drop to intense. The actual air of the room seems to go still for a moment. From what you can see, Seeker Asum and Tofor both grit their teeth and lean forward as you say this. Tofor says, Tofor: "You said Orcus?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Orion: Are you deaf?
Marisha: Tiberius.
Taliesin: Manners.
Liam: We see the apprehension written on your faces and we are nervous as well. But the alternative was leaving the horn with these illithid. Hundreds if not thousands of illithid. We had to make a judgement call rather quickly, and... ... frankly leaving it there with them seemed like it wasn't an option. Tofor: "You've done right in bringing it here. This has to be destroyed. Sent as far away-- If this is indeed an artifact of Orcus, it cannot exist on this plane."
Taliesin: Plans must be drawn up.
Marisha: That's kind of what we thought.
Orion: Yes we knew this already.
Matt: At which point Kima steps forward and says
Matt: "Now, understand this is not something you can lock in a box, or put some guards around it. There was a reason this was forgotten and needs to be again. With the proper surrounding strength and formidable individuals, I can take it to the grand chantry in Osthania where the High Paladin Archibald will reseal it. Far away from the eyes and minds of the world. Lest we can come up with some sort of way to destroy this item."
Matt: At which point the Arbiter, Braum, steps forward. Arbiter Braum: "If you think there's possibly a way to destroy this, we need to discover this here. We cannot allow it outside of the midst of this, to some chaotic winds and whim of the world around us. We have the walls of Emon to keep it safe. Why not take it to the Lyceum."
Liam: I want to make an insight check on the whole table.
Travis: Dang.
Taliesin: I want to also double-check, who was it that handed off the letter to the Briarwoods?
Matt: That was the sovereign.
Taliesin: Sovereign? Thank you.
Matt: So which individual, the Arbiter?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, Arbiter Braum. What'd you roll?
Liam: Just a ten.
Matt: Ten?
Ashley: Can I insight the seeker?
Matt: Sure.
Matt: What's your insight roll?
Ashley: Thirteen.
Matt: Thirteen? Okay.
Taliesin: I would like to insight the sovereign just because, reasons.
Ashley: Yeah, we do.
Taliesin: One.
Matt: Starting the game off strong guys.
Laura: I think you need some Florida rolling.
Taliesin: I'm just an idiot thinking.
Laura: I think you need some Florida rolling.
Liam: Yeah, I think so too. You're awfully quiet.
Laura: I'm going to insight check as well!
Laura: Because Matt can totally whisper to me if I get this good.
Liam: He'll text you.
Matt: I'll text it to you.
Liam: Roll high.
Laura: Hold on, I'm looking.
Travis: She's rolling.
Laura: Seventeen.
Matt: Eleventeen?
Travis: Seventeen!
Laura: Seventeen!
Matt: A total of 17?
Liam: Eleventy-seven.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: On which individual?
Liam: Which person at the table, sis?
Laura: You.
Liam: Your brother?
Laura: Oh no! On the deep voiced guy!
Ashley: The Arbiter.
Matt: Okay. Arbiter Braum.
Laura: Yes, the arbiter. (all laugh)
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: You!
Liam: Why you gotta be like that, huh?
Matt: I'll say in a general feel about the room, but the arbiter specifically, There is definitely a very quick rising in tension, fear, and adrenaline in the room at this conversation. Fear is the main thing you're getting. I wouldn't say that you sense any deception. You just sense that the stakes have just suddenly jumped from what they were expecting their morning to be. They're trying to wrap their head around it. So nothing too particular catches your shit radar.
Laura: All right.
Travis: We are not leaving the horn here.
Laura: No..
Taliesin: We would have to leave you here.
Matt: As Grog speaks up for the Arbiter, he says, Arbiter Braum: "I'm not saying we leave it here. I'm saying that while we have it here, we have it studied. Bring it to the Lyceum. The headmaster and his entire research facility could possibly find a way to destroy it. There is no finer arcane focus than that lyceum in the city. They're responsible for the construction of our sky ships. And the crystals that keep them elevated."
Orion: I love skyships.
Laura: I believe the power would be too great. It will corrupt. People will want to take it for themselves. Arbiter Braum: "Then it has to be taken elsewhere and sealed. Like Kima was requesting."
Marisha: So you're saying essentially our two options are we can either keep it here and study it to try and figure out a way to destroy it and have all of the risks of this horn being inside the city or we take the other massive risks of trying to ship it off somewhere and hope that it gets sealed away?
Matt: At which point, Tofor the female dragonborn sits up in her chair and says, Tofor: "Regardless. It should not stay here in my opinion. Understand the longer it resides within Emon, the more word will spread. And more despots will be drawn to our city to claim it. Do you wish to have all the darkness of this land slowly swarm in on the city?"
Liam: I think we're of a like mind.
Orion: Yes.
Liam: I think we should take it from the city.
Marisha: I think it's a giant target on our backs right now.
Orion: I turn to the Arbiter.
Orion: There is something that you should know. During our battle with K'varn, which was the name of the beholder, which the horn resided upon its head. When I ripped it from its head, I held it in the telekinesis state. I attempted to crush it for not knowing what it was at first. Just knowing it was bringing creatures back to life. When I attempted to do so, I heard somewhat of a laughter in the back of my mind. I fear whatever this is attached to might be aware, or if anything, more aware than it was previously. I'm not sure if it was alerted by being placed on the beholder's head to begin with, but I heard something.
Orion: Looking at Tofor.
Orion: I agree with the peasant. That we should get it out of here immediately.
Matt: At which point the sovereign who's been kinda quiet this moment, says,
Matt: "Well. Best I can tell at this point, it should not stay in Emon. We've had enough trouble in this city and enough issues here that we're having to deal with in the aftermath of the attack on my family. We do not have the mental will nor the ability to withstand any sort of assault either from the inside or the outside of the city. If we are to take it elsewhere I trust the opinion of you, of Kima, and Allura."
Matt: At which point Allura takes a moment and says,
Matt: "Just the knowledge of such a thing existing, let alone two, in this world is dangerous. Who knows what horrors an individual could achieve should they find both horns. Now, wherever this gets taken, the knowledge that all of us know that these exist now, and anyone else beyond this, means that that's a leak. That's a weakness. Now I've heard of some magics that can erase selective memories permanently. Ancient magics."
Matt: At which point as she starts saying this, the rest of the room shifts uncomfortably. You can see Tofor begins to raise her hand to protest. Allura shuts her down and says,
Matt: "But, I'd not employ these unless they were absolutely necessary. I need to speak with the Arcana Pentsafocal and see if this is such a strange and necessary circumstance to allow the use of such magics. That will take me some time to get the entire conclave to agree, but I think it's possible. It may be the only way, if we can not destroy this, to make sure that the rest of this world never knows that it existed. I think that's the safest route. As for getting it out of the city I feel that we have two individuals here, two followers of Bahamut, both the deity that saw the deity, brought the vision to Kima, and presented, whether in a roundabout way, the power and strength of these individuals to eventually retrieve it and prevent it from being an artifact that instrumentally destroyed the dwarven city and quite possibly all of Tal'Dorei. So I think if there was a god whose guidance we can look into, I would put my trust in the clergy of Bahamut."
Matt: She looks to Kima. Kima nods her head.
Orion: Of course we'd agree with such sentiments as well.
Matt: Kima raises her maul and says,
Matt: Well then, if that's to be the case, "I'll send word over to the rest of my temple. We'll send over our finest paladins, clerics, and guardians. Prepare a box for travel. We'll take it across the sea. Then we shall seal this bastard."
Orion: Kima.
Travis: Yeah! Oh. Sorry. (all laugh)
Orion: Kima, when you do approach your king, propose because Orcus's horn is pure black evil, perhaps the side of light can help as well. The blessing of Sarenrae and other light sources, divine powers, could be helpful as well.
Matt: "The horn will remain here until the vessel is brought over. But we have holy vessels specifically designed for the keeping of remains or things that are of great evil. We would gladly welcome the blessing of something from Sarenrae as well. After all, there is nothing wrong with more positive energy instilled to maintain such a negative force."
Marisha: I personally don't trust this horn travelling anywhere without at least one of our supervision.
Matt: At which point the sovereign speaks up and says,
Matt: "And to be completely honest, we are very grateful you've brought the horn here. But you are a motley crew. Who is to say any of you are also immune to this corruption as well? Who's to say you eight carry the mental willpower to withstand this darkness any better than a group of paladins designed and trained their entire lives to withstand and destroy this evil. What assurance do I have that your attachment to nature will not become some dark, brambled, twisted, thing in the proximity of this artifact? None. Just keep that in mind."
Orion: I look to the group and do this to Scanlan. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Taking quite advantage of his current state of mind.
Orion: You have no idea what I'm going to do for the rest of this game.
Travis: You literally do that to Scanlan. Like you... to Scanlan?
Orion: No, I was pointing at him.
Liam: Right in the ear.
Matt: Wet willy. To our little gnome bard.
Orion: (laughs)
Matt: We miss you Sam.
Matt: Uriel looks around.
Matt: "Well, given the circumstance I would say that our best bet now is to have Kima and Tofor reach out to the grand chambers of Bahamut. Have them bring a vessel and seal it somewhere that they find fit for an object of this dark presence. Is the council in agreement of this? Unless some other, better means arises. How long will it take for this vessel to arrive?"
Matt: At which point, Kima scratches her chin for a second.
Matt: "By the fastest ships, especially if we're using some of your fancy sky dinghies. I can't imagine more than two weeks?"
Marisha: Two weeks?!
Matt: At which point --
Orion: That's 14 days, your highness.
Marisha: (sighs)
Laura: That was adorable.
Ashley: A fortnight?
Matt: At which point Allura stands forward and says,
Matt: "It's in the means of --"
Marisha: You guys don't have any holy ships here. You don't have like a ship dock?
Orion: I'm sure if they did they would probably use that one.
Taliesin: But I'm using it. (all laugh)
Matt: At this point Allura sits forward and to the rest of the group, says,
Matt: "To be fair Kima, in my experience and knowledge, ships function well for the movement of goods and large objects. The speed of this requires some expediting and I happen to have a friend who is over in Osthania, probably not far from your clergy. Perhaps we can facilitate a two-day travel?"
Matt: At which point the group leans back for a second and Kima goes,
Matt: "Well fine. Yeah, I guess."
Matt: Shoots a dirty look a little bit to --
Marisha: Can I do an insight check on Allura really quick?
Matt: Sure.
Liam: She's saying a ship will be ready in two days or take two days to travel?
Matt: Allura's saying,
Matt: "Depending on the size of this vessel, why do we even need a ship? We have the ability to transport between the cities. If we can pool our resources, there's no reason why we can't bring them here nearly instantaneously."
Marisha: Thirteen.
Matt: Thirteen? Best you can tell, Allura's really hard to read. She keeps up her smile but she definitely has her intense face on. She's deep in the moment. No real gives one way or the other. The rest of the group looks around and Arcanist in the silence goes,
Matt: "Well then, I think that me and Kima and Tofor, if you'd like, we can designate a way of bringing this relic container as fast as possible so we can get this going. I wish not to keep this within our presence much longer. Do we agree to that?"
Orion: Yes.
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: I think we would feel comfortable going along for the ride and seeing this thing through to the end.
Matt: She glances over to the sovereign. The sovereign nods.
Matt: "Very well. Very well, I'll allow it. I may have some business for you coming soon so try not to be gone too long. Although this is much more important business, I do agree."
Matt: Then he gives a laugh and smile to raise a bit of levity in the room that nobody seems to respond to.
Matt: "But nevertheless if you wish to travel and see this through I don't see there would be any complaint."
Matt: He looks to Lady Kima and Kima says,
Matt: "No, not at all. We've gotten along swimmingly so far. Mostly. Very well. I'm bad at this political stuff."
Matt: Kima steps back a little bit, Kima: "I defer to the rest of you."
Matt: Puts her maul on the ground and awkwardly looks away. The sovereign goes,
Matt: "Very well. It is settled. Reach out to your clergy. Bring the vessel. Allura, facilitate its arrival. We will get this artifact as far away from Emon as possible. This is adjourned. Thank you all very much for coming to this council meeting."
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to catch the sovereign on his way out.
Matt: All right. At which point everyone gathers the rest of their papers, their parchments, they're rolling up scrolls. The Arbiter gets up and lumbers his way out of the room. The seeker, Asum, steps up to the rest of you with a final handshake.
Matt: "A pleasure to meet you all, once again, I've heard so much. You're doing fine work."
Matt: He seems strangely nervous. But in a weird way, he's a gentle hint of fanboy.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: I wink at him. (all laugh)
Matt: He slyly winks back on his way out.
Matt: As he exits, Tofor stands up. You've only seen her sitting since you arrived. As Tofor stands in her female dragonborn form, she is probably a good solid foot taller than Tiberius. And is a thick musclebound dragonborn paladin of Bahamut. Her armor shifts as she stands, she begins to make her way towards the door, not even with a glance in your direction.
Orion: That means she's as tall as you, Grog.
Travis: What?
Orion: She's as tall as you.
Marisha: I just whisper to Tiberius and say,
Marisha: Are all the ladies that big in Draconia?
Orion: It all depends. Not really.
Matt: She's bigger than usual.
Orion: She's a wretched peasant so I can not.
Marisha: That's so mean.
Liam: That's a little harsh.
Matt: Allura stands up and begins to leave. The sovereign stands up and as he stands up the guards come out and they come to his side.
Taliesin: Good Sovereign, if I can have a moment? Did I hear correctly that Lord and Lady Briarwood were in town?
Matt: "They were but a week ago."
Taliesin: They were but a week ago? And they've left, have they?
Matt: "Yes. Do you know of Lord and Lady Briarwood?"
Taliesin: Just in passing. Did they have business in town? Was there something in particular? I'm just curious. It doesn't really matter. I mean it does matter but not particularly.
Matt: "It was relatively routine, we're establishing an official trade route through the northeast. Spanning the Boreal Plane to Whitestone."
Taliesin: Oh.
Matt: "They inherited the region after the unfortunate demise of the Derolo family."
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "However our ambassador has noted that they've rebuilt rather well and honored the memory of the family and they're really committed to reestablishing the foothold of Whitestone in the north. So they came here on a diplomatic mission to open trade."
Taliesin: That's nice. I would love to. Please, keep it quiet, but if I could be notified if they're coming through again. I would like very much to surprise them, if that would be possible.
Orion: Am I standing next to Percy? Am I hearing this?
Matt: Yes.
Orion: Good.
Taliesin: It's just old business. It would be very interesting to see them again.
Matt: For the sake of this conversation, I'm going to ask you to roll a deception check.
Taliesin: Okay. Natural 20.
Marisha: (cheers)
Orion: (claps)
Marisha: On the new pretty die.
Taliesin: Don't fuck with me.
Matt: The Sovereign gives you a look and says,
Matt: "Certainly. Very well, I will notify you should they come through again."
Taliesin: Deeply honored by your thought, sir. Thank you.
Orion: At the end of this conversation I'm going to rip off a piece of the scroll of telescription and I'm going to approach.
Orion: When you do, all you do is write the message to this and we will receive it. It's an enchanted parchment. I will receive the message.
Matt: He tells you,
Matt: "I know how these work. Yes, thank you."
Matt: As you present it, he walks by and one of his guards takes it from you and gives you a nod.
Matt: They exit the chambers. You guys are escorted out into the main hallway of the palace.
Ashley: Bye!
Matt: The rest of the council
Matt: The rest of the council scatters amongst the palace proper. You are all left. The doors close behind you and the echoing hallways towards the central left side of the palace.
Taliesin: (sighs)
Marisha: Percy.
Taliesin: I'm fine.
Ashley: Are you okay?
Marisha: You're sweating.
Taliesin: I know.
Ashley: Are you okay?
Marisha: Why are you sweating?
Taliesin: It's hot.
Marisha: What happened?
Taliesin: Nothing. The sun comes up and it gets very hot. I'll tell you later.
Orion: Very good.
Taliesin: This is discussion for later. There's more important things.
Matt: Kima and Allura are near you. At which point, Kima looks at the rest of you and says,
Matt: "I apologize, I have to figure this out now. So I'm going to head to the nearest temple of Bahamut and see if we could reach out quickly."
Marisha: What should we do?
Matt: That's up to you.
Matt: She looks to Allura, questioning Allura.
Matt: "In the event of this blessed chamber arriving, you will be notified. We will request your presence to bring the artifact in question, seal it, and then we will begin our journey over to its place of hopeful destruction and/or proper banishment."
Ashley: Would you like anyone to go with you or you just want to go alone?
Matt: "To?"
Ashley: To work out the details of all of this?
Matt: Allura says,
Matt: "For me, it's just preparation of the arcane transference ritual. I'm going to go meet with a friend of mine over in Ostania."
Taliesin: I will say we haven't replenished our potions yet. And we could go --
Ashley: Should we go to visit our old friend?
Marisha: Gilmore?
Taliesin: We could go to Gilmore's.
Marisha: Gilmore?
Ashley: Gilmore?
Taliesin: We could go to Gilmore's.
Ashley: Gilmore's Glorious Goods?
Marisha: You essentially want us to wait?
Matt: "Whatever business you need to get done. It should take no more than two days to get this taken care of."
Marisha: You guys, we have a weekend! (all laugh)
Liam: This is Allura and Kima who are here?
Matt: Yeah, they're the only two who have stayed behind with you guys outside of the council chambers.
Liam: I take Pike by the hand and I walk over to Kima. And they're short so I kneel down. I say to the both of them.
Liam: I've never pretended to be a man of the cloth, I know little of the gods. But the brush we had down below has left me shaken. What can the gods tell us? The gods stick their noses into our doings whenever it pleases them. Are they not here? Have they anything to say for what is happening now?
Marisha: I'm with this guy! High five Vax.
Matt: At which point-- did you wish to respond in any way?
Ashley: Well, I just know that I tried to have a response from my god down below and she didn't really respond the way I would have liked for her to. But maybe things will be different. What were you going to say?
Matt: At which point Kima looks to you, at what you just said with curious worry.
Matt: "Well, if what you say is your faith has been shaken, there is always room at the temple of Bahamut to find redemption, strength, and guidance. You realize the platinum --"
Marisha: She's trying to get you to come to her church.
Matt: (laughs)
Ashley: She's trying to convert.
Marisha: She's trying to convert! Get the leaflet.
Matt: "The platinum dragon has guided much of civilization's growth, expansion, and survival for thousands of years. The eternal battle between him and the darkness that is Tiamat and the chaos beyond that --"
Marisha: With all due respect, Kima, I don't think that was Vax's question.
Matt: "To get to the point, I apologize. The gods are many and the gods have been at war for as long as we exist. There are some that believe we are nothing but the aftermath of their squabbles. But nevertheless, there is much good in this world that guides us to our ultimate destiny. And if you yourself ever feel that you are lost amongst this chaos, don't ever be afraid to stop in and ask a few questions."
Liam: I was just wondering if I could ask you to ask them, to maybe help. I would never think to ask the gods for help if I wanted a shiny new sword or pile of riches, but this is something different.
Travis: Unless they could get us a pile of riches.
Laura: Or a shining sword.
Liam: Good boy. (all laugh)
Matt: At which point Kima laughs to herself.
Matt: "There are benefits to being of the order."
Matt: Kima who does not have an accent and did not say it that way. Too many NPCs in my head right now. She says,
Matt: "But, understand. Whenever I felt lost, which was often. It's good to have that guiding warmth to turn to. And sometimes it brings you into a subterranean mountain being tortured by dwarves. Sometimes it guides you to new friends and allies. Strange the way the gods work. But, when you put your all into it, they've kept me alive so far."
Ashley: That's a really good point. I guess that's a positive way to look at it.
Marisha: I really like long walks in the forest when I'm feeling disconnected.
Ashley: That works too, you know.
Travis: Lady Kima, do the gods allow you to have relationships?
Matt: Kima, you ask this and she gives you a look of confusion, and then She already a darker complexion for a halfling but her cheeks grow noticeably ruddier. She averts her gaze and says,
Matt: "Well..."
Travis: I start trying to do my best Vax wink.
Laura: I'm Vex.
Travis: --Vex wink. (all laugh)
Matt: She averts her gaze and goes,
Matt: "Well, as far as I know it is not a vow of chastity within the order."
Travis: So you're saying there's a chance.
Matt: She still is looking away. She looks away and looks to the rest of you. Looks to Allura. Looks to you again. And then goes,
Matt: "I really have to get to work on this."
Taliesin: You did this.
Matt: "I really have to get to work on this."
Matt: She leaves the group and continues down the hallway. Quick steps.
Ashley: Bye, Kima! Quick steps.
Liam: A lot of math involved in that equation.
Marisha: Yeah...
Matt: Allura chuckles to herself and steps into the place where she was and goes,
Orion: I care not to solve the puzzle.
Matt: "Oh, as a note. Be careful who you ask those questions to, you may get an earful."
Matt: And Allura smiles and motions towards Kima.
Matt: "Don't get me wrong, you're more than welcome to explore as you like, but that's a rabbit hole my friend."
Travis: A rabbit hole, is that what we're calling it these days?
Matt: You feel a gentle slap from some unknown arcane force across your cheek Grog. And Allura gives you a stern glare.
Marisha: Oh, don't talk about her girl that way.
Liam: Don't make me take my earrings off.
Matt: Anyway.
Matt: "So two days. We'll call for you when the item is to be transferred and properly brought to its destination. In the meantime, prepare as you see fit, enjoy this well-earned rest, and we'll take it from there. I have much travel to do myself. See you all very soon."
Matt: She begins to step up the hallway. As she steps up the hallway, you can see there's a light yellowish glow about her form. Then with a sudden flash of white light, Allura's just gone.
Marisha: So guys. I'm thinking we take a local tour of all the historical highlights of Emon. We've never really gone sightseeing, Then maybe we can catch a nice dinner in the city tonight.
Laura: Oh, look at the time.
Travis: Oh, it's getting so late.
Marisha: It's 1pm. We've got the whole day
Taliesin: It feels like eight. It really feels so late.
Marisha: I picked up one of these pamphlets while we were in the palace and apparently there's a nice natural history museum.
Taliesin: Gilmore's? Gilmore's?
Orion: Your highness, what is a pam-phlet?
Taliesin: Gilmore's?
Orion: Oh, a lot of paper.
Taliesin: I'll be at Gilmore's.
Orion: Oh, it's like a mini book!
Marisha: It's like a tiny scroll.
Orion: It has pictures!
Marisha: Yes!
Orion: Look, Percy!
Taliesin: I'm already heading towards Gilmore's.
Liam: I'm following Percy.
Travis: We're going to Gilmore's, too.
Matt: All right. You guys exit and find your way, exiting the palace and the cloudtop district to make your way to Abedar's Promenade to enter and reunite with your good friend Gilmore.
Matt: We're going to take this moment to take a break, use the restroom, get some food.
Taliesin: We're at two? Are we at two more?
Zac: Giveaway time!
Matt: Oh, it's giveaway time. (Background: Snuggle Lord, Snuggle Lord) All right, we hit our next giveaway so we'll do that first. All right, we hit our next giveaway so we'll do that first. (Background: Snuggle Lord, Snuggle Lord) All right, so we have --
Matt: Oh no.
Marisha: Snuggle Lord?!
Marisha: It's a Snuggle Lord variant!
Taliesin: Snuggle Lord, Snuggle Lord.
Liam: There he is. (all cheer)
Marisha: Snuggle Lord has returned!
Matt: There you go, there is Snuggle Lord in his glory.
Marisha: No, not the horns of Orcus!
Orion: No, now he has the power! (all laugh)
Zac: We hit our second giveaway. (all cheer)
Zac: We're going to give one of these away. All you have to do is be active in the chat room, guys. So, if you're watching full screen, get out of full screen, be active. She can't see it, can she?
Matt: No, she can see it though.
Marisha: Can't see.
Marisha: Can you see it? Gotta tilt it down a bit.
Laura: There we go, it's so cute.
Zac: All right guys be active in the chat room. We're going to let these guys take a break. When we come back from the break, we'll announce the winner.
Marisha: Do we have a word?
Zac: Oh yeah, go for it.
Marisha: Here we'll use the word KommissarProps in the chat room.
Zac: I'll have to go set it up. Okay, I gotta run.
Matt: Go set it up. So hold that thought, until he starts it. The word will be KommissarProps.
Marisha: Say KommissarProps and definitely go follow Kai on Instagram and on Facebook
Matt: These horns will be yours. and definitely go follow Kai on Instagram and on Facebook and definitely go follow Kai on Instagram and on Facebook because he was awesome enough to make these horns for us. So Instagram and Facebook, that's where all the pretty pictures are.
Matt: You yourself can be corrupted by the evil of Orcus.
Marisha: You yourself can be corrupted if you go and find him.
Taliesin: Watch him while he sleeps.
Matt: You and RhymesWithOrange can be the two keepers of the two horns of Orcus and bring ruin to the entire world of Exandria. So that could be you. Anyway, we're taking a break. We'll see you guys back here in a little over ten minutes and we'll continue as they head towards Gilmore's Glorious Goods.
Taliesin: Gilmore's!
Matt: All right, I gotta prepare. See you soon guys.
Matt: Hey guys, welcome back. Were about to get in some game time again here in a second, but first we have our second winner to win the second horn of Orcus for the evenings giveaway. Were really excited to announce the winner of the second players handbook signed by the group, the dice kit, as well as this horn, is Ember72.
Matt: Ember72, congratulations.
Travis: Ember72!
Matt: You get to have this one. Its awesome, really stoked. We now have both of these horns given away. And while these are the only horns of Orcus thatll be out there, our fantastic propmaster over here, Kai, Kommissar Props, will be working with us in the future to do more Critical Role-based prop giveaways. And once again, definitely check out his work, hes an amazing fabricator and propmaster.
Ashley: Those are the only two? hes an amazing fabricator and propmaster.
Matt: These are the only two thatre gonna go out.
Taliesin: Theyre the only two in the world.
Ashley: Thats really special.
Taliesin: Theyre the only two in the world.
Zac: At 3600 well do the starter kit, t-shirt --
Ashley: That sounded insincere, but I really meant it.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: That did sound insincere.
Matt: Well see somewhere down the road. If we want to put out more stuff, well see. But right now these are just an exclusive giveaway. Excited for those two guys. So everyone once again for Rhymeswithorange and Ember72, congratulations on those bits.
Marisha: Or maybe if you follow Kommissar Props, well do another giveaway to the people who follow him.
Matt: Helping friends out because they do awesome work. Congratulations on that. If we can get to 3600 were gonna be doing some dance after the show, so hopefully we can hit that subscriber number tonight.
Zac: Plus giveaway.
Matt: Plus giveaway. Plus the signed t-shirt, the dice box, starter kit, so.
Matt: Good stuff. All right, bringing us back to the game.
Ashley: Gilmore!
Matt: So you guys, you make your way outside of the Castletop District into the center of Emon proper. Returning to Abedars Promenade, which is the largest central section of the city, where most of the merchantile itself seems to have gathered and been a serious conglomerate where all business in this city happens. Those who would like a quick little visual idea of the city, this is Emon.
Matt: Right there. Its a small little -- --there is an amazing printout of this that theyve, actually Laura and Travis, have framed and put up in their room sometime. Well have to go ahead and bring on the show and show you guys.
Laura: Were gonna bring it to put on the set. At some point.
Matt: Yeah, well have it too. Anyway, the Castletop District is here, the inner portion. You guys have made your way out south to the Central District and then towards Abedars Promenade, which is right over here. So you guys wouldve gone this way, actually. So youre out to Abedars Promenade in the far eastern side of Emon, where you eventually find your way to the outskirts of your favorite purveyor of arcane mystical artifacts.
Marisha: Gilmore!
Matt: Shaun Gilmore himself.
Marisha: Shaun Gilmore.
Matt: So as you guys --
Ashley: Is that his first name?
Marisha: I didnt know Shaun was his first name either.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I didnt know Shaun was his first name either.
Taliesin: Youve not been paying attention.
Matt: Shaun Gilmore, but youve always called him Gilmore.
Marisha: Were on a first-name basis now, guys.
Matt: No ones on a first-name basis with Gilmore.
Marisha: We are.
Matt: Gilmore is Gilmore.
Marisha: Except for maybe Vax over there.
Matt: Except for maybe, maybe Vax.
Matt: So at this point now youre pushing about two in the afternoon. Its extremely busy, you can hear the clopping of horse hooves on the ground, people are walking past. Youd swear as youre stepping through the city, maybe a handful of people tend to stop and watch you guys walk through, stunned. Almost like theyd seen a celebrity on the street, as the most recent makeup of the Winters Crest festival was a celebration of you being the heroes who saved the city of Emon and the sovereign and his family. Apparently you are now recognizable within the city of Emon.
Liam: My sister winks.
Travis: Yeah we are.
Matt: All right, so Vax wills Vex to wink. Vex, do you accept this wink from your brother?
Laura: I do.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Other way.
Matt: Perfect, there you go.
Laura: Just a little more.
Matt: Perfect. Weve lined it up. As you walk across the main thoroughfare, you make your way to the wide but single-story building that is Gilmores Glorious Goods. Of all the various shades of brown and red and brick that makes up all these buildings, Gilmores Glorious Goods is presented in fine, deep blue and purple fabric and a paint scheme that would look like the worst funhouse to enter. Worst or best, depending on your opinion. The entranceway is not a door but a series of hanging beads and large cloth drapes that are gently falling to be brushed aside as you enter. Its not as big as you remember, or recall, seemingly. But as you step through the front door you remember why. Much like the TARDIS, the interior of Gilmores Goods is bigger on the inside. There is a magical enchantment based within this building where the interior is actually a two-story and much larger place of business. Immediately the smells of incense and fine perfumes assault your nose --
Travis: Ugh! fine perfumes assault your nose --
Matt: Like a terrible medieval Sephora.
Liam: Like coming home.
Ashley: Medieval Sephora.
Matt: A series of magically flickering ever-burning candles adorn sconces along the walls. You can see there are glass cases set out in the center of the room, there is the long wooden bar on the far end which has itself its own beaded curtain that is closed, and there are three employees of Gilmores Glorious Goods in their ceremonial blue and purple robes that match the exterior, staring about while there a number of other possible customers that are looking about. There are numerous bookshelves along the walls. You can see there is, next to the stairway on the far left side of this floor, there is an herbalist who specializes in dried herbs and sales in that regard. You haven't been to the upstairs yet in this complex. But you now are standing back in the comfortable, although slightly offensive to your senses, interior of Gilmore's Glorious Goods.
Liam: I'm scanning the entire store for him. I want to find him.
Matt: He's not currently visible.
Liam: Oh! He's not here?
Matt: He's not visible. Not in the main room.
Liam: All right.
Ashley: He has his private office.
Laura: Brother.
Ashley: He has his private office.
Liam: Yes?
Laura: You should get that evil Clarota helmet checked out and see what all good it does us.
Liam: What, this one?
Laura: Yep. That one.
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: Vax.
Liam: Yes?
Marisha: I say you'd be the point man here.
Liam: I think so.
Orion: I would agree.
Ashley: I think that's a really good plan.
Taliesin: I second that notion. Quintuple it.
Marisha: Yeah. The twinsies should go.
Liam: Start looking around. Start shopping. Don't pay for anything yet, because I have an arrangement.
Ashley: He can get a little discount.
Laura: He can get a little wink, wink, nudge, nudge discount.
Marisha: I go up to Vax. I put my hands on his shoulders, and I say,
Marisha: You got this.
Marisha: And I cast Enhance Ability on him.
Ashley: Yeah.
Marisha: For charisma? I'm assuming?
Liam: Let's make my hair even glossier than it already is.
Marisha: And I give him a little bit of the dad thumb.
Liam: I know that thumb.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: The dad thumb?
Marisha: Wipe the morning breakfast off of him before I send him on to school.
Matt: (laughs quietly)
Marisha: And I give him a little love tap on his behind and send him on his way.
Ashley: Send him on his merry way.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Shoulder massage.
Matt: All righty. So?
Marisha: So you have advantage rolls on all charisma rolls.
Liam: Is there a front desk?
Orion: (package crinkling)
Liam: Is there a front desk?
Matt: On the far back side, there is a very long, well-crafted dark wood desk that is adorned with what looks like small alchemical components, (package crinkling) with what looks like small alchemical components, glass tubing and -- (package crinkling) Be a little louder with those Red Vines.
Orion: Sorry. Do you want one?
Matt: I'm good, thank you.
Ashley: (laughs)
Matt: We're good. You can see there are a number of glass containers and small corked vials --
Liam: I'm sorry, he's looking for Gilmore.
Marisha: (laughs)
Liam: They're going to flirt together.
Matt: (laughs)
Orion: It's like watching a movie.
Marisha: (giggles)
Liam: Sorry.
Matt: It's all right. There are some books stacked up. There is a small, embedded glass case that seems to have a couple of items that are under a purplish-maroon, velvet piece of material that's currently covering them. There is that beaded curtain with strips of material that block the back room.
Liam: Okay, and there's a person manning the --
Matt: No, not currently. It is just an empty desk.
Liam: Is there a bell or anything?
Matt: There is a bell.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: As you hit the bell, one of the employees who is helping somebody looks around and goes,
Matt: "I'm sorry."
Matt: What you see is a half-elven woman with thick spectacles who is currently stepping over to try and stop you. However, the beaded curtain swishes open with the grandiose gesture of one slightly meaty hand. Stepping out in his fine, gold-trimmed, purple robes, his longish thick, black, coarse hair pulled into a nice ponytail. Smoothly-shaved face with a slight hint of a braided goatee that dangles about three inches from his chin.
Liam: Will you remind me because it's been a while. Gilmore's a good-looking man, though, isn't he?
Matt: Yeah. He's handsome.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Is the braid new? Is that a new addition?
Laura: He's so handsome, Vax.
Marisha: The braid's new. He decided to rock the braid. Go for it!
Matt: Gilmore's a very handsome gentleman. I would say he's not fit and muscular. He is a handsome, comfortably jovial gentleman.
Liam: I'm picturing Jeremy Irons in a wizard robe.
Matt: Kind of. Imagine him with a little more paunch.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: But very charismatic. Open chest to his vest, with a number of gold chains and medallions that dangle around.
Liam: I feel you.
Matt: It's almost like a wizard's track suit. (all laugh)
Liam: You ruined it for me, man!
Taliesin: And it's dead.
Marisha: Please tell me it says "arcane" on the butt?
Matt: No. (all laugh)
Matt: He's very well-dressed, but his presentation is definitely a presentation. As the hand swishes open, he goes,
Matt: "I'm sorry, was I being summoned?"
Orion: Yes.
Matt: He immediately looks and goes,
Matt: "Oh. You've returned."
Liam: Gilmore, you glorious bastard. How have you been?
Matt: He immediately rushes to the edge and leans over the counter to give you a grandiose hug and actually lifts you off your feet. Much stronger than you anticipated. He goes,
Matt: "Oh, Vax'ahlia. It's been far too long."
Matt: He sets you down next to him behind the counter and gives you a big hug, his strong wizard arms around you. A scent of what's almost like fine herbs with a hint of patchouli enters your nose.
Taliesin: (laughs)
Liam: You naughty man. You just called me by my sister's name. That is going to cost you.
Marisha: (gasps)
Matt: "I said Vax! What do you mean?"
Liam: I heard "Vex'ahlia." That's ridiculous. Preposterous. Can we go to the videotape? Anyone?
Marisha: Instant replay!
Orion: Actually, Vax, he was correct. He said your name correctly. I believe you owe him a little something now.
Marisha: I think it was a little bit of combination. A little bit of column A, a little bit of column B. I think he called you Vex'ahlia.
Liam: Water under the bridge.
Marisha: Or Vax'ahlia, is what he called you.
Orion: He called you Vax'ahlia, which I call you in my sleep.
Liam: Shut up, you.
Liam: I lean in.
Matt: He looks genuinely perturbed and embarrassed by the whole circumstance.
Matt: "I --"
Liam: I lean in. I pat him on the hand.
Liam: Don't you worry. We have come from far and away. You would not believe the shit we have been through, but I don't want to talk about me. I want to talk about you. What has been going on in this city since we've been gone?
Matt: "Well."
Matt: And he looks about the rest of you and says,
Matt: "Obviously you've brought the rest of your friends here. Come, sit! Story time, story time!" (all laugh)
Matt: "Please sit around."
Orion: Fantastic.
Matt: "We have been doing marvelously. Trade has opened up wide in Emon. We've had travelers from all over Tal'Dorei and beyond. It's incredible." (all giggle)
Matt: "I'm in the process of planning an expansion to another town. Perhaps even --"
Laura: Oh, my.
Matt: "--perhaps even opening a second store in Westruun."
Marisha: You're going to own a chain?
Orion: Congratulations!
Matt: "Perhaps."
Orion: This is a big step for any businessman.
Taliesin: Spectacular.
Matt: "But yes. No, I have been able to take on two more arcanists. We've been in the process of designing some more interesting, wondrous items. We have stocked many of our recent possible and available items. We are doing quite well for ourselves."
Orion: Are you looking for investors, Gilmore?
Matt: "I technically am your investor, in a way."
Orion: Oh.
Laura: He is.
Marisha: True, we are sponsored by him.
Matt: "But. If you have the money in which to sponsor our business, that's a whole other discussion."
Orion: I just wanted you to talk to me for a little bit. Vax, take it away.
Matt: "Dragonborn. But yes! How about yourselves? You look like you've --"
Matt: He gives you all a look over.
Matt: "--like you've maybe not slept in a fortnight."
Liam: Well. We're lucky we're not dead. It came close a couple of times. We were off on official business for the emperor. We've been underground for weeks and weeks. We've only seen the sun for a couple of days.
Matt: "Oh. That kind of a weekend. I know how that goes."
Liam: Needless to say, our stores are terribly depleted. We are going to need to stock up a bit before we head out of town again. I don't want to rush things, though. I think my friends probably want to shop about. My sister can probably handle things for me. I would love to take a stroll with you around the city. Get a bit of lunch, a bite, and hear about what's been happening. Hear the rumors of town. We all know nobody matches your shrewdness in business. That's no surprise.
Matt: (chuckles)
Liam: But I'm wondering what you've heard. What's on the wind? Can you take the afternoon off?
Matt: He looks over at the same half-elven woman who was trying to stop you earlier. She gives a look like, 'what's he going to say?' No one's ever asked him this question. He goes,
Matt: "For you? Of course." (all laugh)
Marisha: Man date. Go for it!
Laura: Don't worry, Gilmore. We'll take wonderful care of your employees.
Matt: "Well if you wish to do business, why not do that now?"
Laura: We need to shop around first, of course.
Matt: "Very well."
Taliesin: And we're so curious as to any of these interesting and fascinating things that you've developed in the several weeks it's been since we've been here. We'd love to see what you've been working on.
Matt: "Very well. Sherri!"
Matt: The same woman, her shoulders droop.
Matt: "Yes, Gilmore?" (all laugh)
Matt: "Would you be so kind as to see to whatever our friends need? These are Vox Machina, by the way. They are currently sponsored by Gilmore's Glorious Goods, Inc, and I would very much like to make sure that they are taken care of."
Matt: "Yes, sir. I'll make sure that happens."
Matt: (laugh)
Taliesin: (laugh)
Matt: "So. Shall we?"
Liam: I think this will take a while. Let's.
Laura: Have a wonderful time, brother.
Liam: I look to my sister as we go.
Liam: Just get what I need, will you?
Laura: Of course.
Liam: Thank you.
Liam: And stroll out the door with Gilmore. Have at it, ladies and gentlemen.
Travis: Yes!
Marisha: We'll leave dinner on the stove for you.
Matt: So Sherri looks at the rest of you as they leave and goes,
Matt: "So you're all friends of Gilmore, then?"
Marisha: Yes.
Ashley: Business friends.
Matt: Business friends. All right.
Marisha: We're mutual fans of one another, if you will.
Matt: She adjusts her glasses.
Matt: "Then let's continue with the business. What are you seeking? What do you need? What are you looking for?"
Orion: I don't know. We like all kinds of things.
Marisha: Well, we definitely need potions.
Matt: "Potions. Those we can provide."
Marisha: Health potions.
Matt: "Health potions, yes. Potions of healing can be provided."
Marisha: What do you have right now?
Matt: She goes behind the counter for a second and ruffles through some stuff. Goes in the back room and comes back out with a wooden crate, pretty much. You hear the glass jangling inside as she moves it and sets it on the counter with a ting. They all eventually come to rest. She goes,
Matt: "All right, looking through here, it looks like we have about 12 regular potions of healing. We have six of greater healing. And it looks like three of superior healing."
Ashley: What's the price on the superior healing, again?
Orion: We'll take the lot.
Ashley: What's the price on the superior healing, again?
Ashley: What's the price on the superior healing, again?
Matt: "Superior healing? Let's see, currently those go for about --"
Matt: She looks at the price book, going through.
Matt: "Those will run you --"
Matt: As I go through my price book.
Ashley: We are sponsored.
Taliesin: We do keep getting turned to stone. This has been a problem, and it's been sticking around a bit. I feel like we should maybe take some precautions for the inevitable next time this happens.
Matt: "That will be 1500 gold pieces per superior."
Marisha: Is that with our sponsorship prices?
Matt: "Right, you mentioned you're sponsored. That would be a 10% discount. That would bring it to about 1350, should you wish to purchase them individually."
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: I definitely need one of those.
Laura: Wait. How much if we're purchasing them individually?
Matt: "1350 gold pieces per superior healing potion."
Orion: How much for the lot?
Laura: And if we buy in bulk, what can you bring it down to?
Matt: "If you buy all three?"
Laura: A thousand each?
Matt: "I'm sorry. You've already been given the discount via Gilmore. That price stands as it is. Let's say you buy the three remaining items, I'll give you 1200 apiece. And even that I'll probably get in trouble for, but he seems to like you."
Laura: 1200 apiece? Yes?
Travis: We'll take that.
Taliesin: Sounds good.
Laura: Three superior.
Matt: "Very well. So 3600 gold pieces. Three superior are yours."
Matt: She pulls them out of the crate and slides them across. They are thick, very heavily-made glass vials with these small glass handles on the side. You can see the interior. The liquid itself is a reddish purple, almost blood color, but there's a gold sheen as you shake it in the light. You can see there's a spark of divine glow to it.
Marisha: Like Goldschlager.
Taliesin: Classy.
Matt: Kind of. It's the worst of healing Goldschlager.
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: "Is that all you require?"
Travis: Do you sell any love potions?
Matt: She gives you the blank stare and goes,
Matt: "No." (all laugh)
Travis: Right. Sorry for asking. Jeez.
Taliesin: I would also say we should take the six superior healing potions, as well.
Orion: Absolutely.
Matt: "The greater ones."
Taliesin: Greater.
Laura: What did we just buy? We didn't buy superior?
Taliesin: We bought the three superior. We should also get the six greater.
Laura: Six greater. All right. How much is that?
Matt: "Those are 500 apiece. With your discount, that would be 450 apiece."
Laura: But if we're buying all six, 400 apiece is a very good price.
Orion: Now, this is the Vex I miss.
Matt: Roll a persuasion check.
Marisha: Persuasion check, persuasion check!
Orion: Persuasion check, persuasion check!
Taliesin: Persuasion check, persuasion check!
Liam: Vex hasn't had a chance to haggle since the show started.
Marisha: Yep.
Liam: All she used to do before this show was haggle.
Marisha: We used to take food breaks.
Marisha: No!
Laura: Fourteen.
Matt: Fourteen? She goes,
Matt: "Let's call it an even 425 gold pieces each."
Laura: I like this. I'm comfortable with that.
Matt: "All right."
Taliesin: 425 times 6...
Matt: She brings out her arcane calculator.
Marisha: Her arcane calculator? Once again, our charity.
Matt: "Thatll be 2550 gold pieces."
Laura: All right.
Matt: And she pulls out the six that are there and she kinda slides them over the counter to you. One tips over but she catches it, leaves it there at the far end.
Travis: Careful with those.
Matt: "Theyre fine, they can take a beating, theyre designed that way."
Travis: So can I.
Matt: She pushes her glasses up and looks vastly unimpressed at the presentation.
Laura: How much were the superiors again?
Matt: "The superiors were 1500 brought down to 1200 apiece, yes."
Laura: 1200. Which came to 36?
Taliesin: Thirty-six.
Taliesin: So do you have anything, we keep getting turned into stone, its been sort of a running theme. We were hoping you might have something to help alleviate stone skin or any --
Matt: "We do have potions of petrification removal."
Taliesin: Yes! Petrification removal.
Matt: I think. Let me check.
Matt: And she goes in the back room, rummages around for a minute, comes out and she presents two of them. They have a clear liquid that looks almost like dirty water, and theyre like thin little vials, she goes,
Matt: "These potions, when applied to the flesh, will, more of an oil I guess you would say, removes the affliction of petrification. These do cost 750 gold apiece."
Laura: We have greater restoration from Pike, and she can cure --
Matt: "Then youre fine."
Matt: And she takes them --
Orion: How many potions are there?
Matt: "Two."
Liam: But in the heat of the moment.
Orion: Get them.
Taliesin: In the heat of the moment, it might come quite in handy.
Liam: A stone Grog in the middle of a fight?
Travis: I agree.
Orion: It takes her a day to learn that and she can only do it like once or twice at the most.
Travis: I think we need to get it.
Taliesin: Id rather have the potions than the gold, to be fair.
Marisha: Lets just get one.
Taliesin: And we havent discussed our discount.
Marisha: I should learn how to make potions. I should learn this.
Liam: Money is meant for spending.
Laura: Do we want to take one?
Orion: Take both.
Taliesin: Id actually say we take both.
Liam: Not that Im here.
Laura: Take both. 750 was not the discounted price.
Orion: No.
Matt: She gives you another look of like, ugh. She adjusts her glasses.
Orion: To be fair, we are spending a lot, right? Overall, so.
Ashley: Overall.
Matt: "That would come to 1350."
Taliesin: Thirteen fifty.
Travis: Well take it.
Laura: 1300. Remember, were very good friends of Gilmores, he said to treat us well.
Matt: Make another persuasion roll. This is my new fan dice.
Matt: Its awesome, thank you.
Laura: That was really good.
Matt: Its awesome, thank you.
Laura: That would be 21.
Matt: Its a good thing. She gives you a look and goes,
Matt: "I dont like you." (all laugh)
Matt: "Thirteen hundred."
Laura: Thirteen hundred, lovely, thank you.
Marisha: Sherri? It was Sherri, right?
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: Do you have any books on how to learn how to start making your own potions? Or do you know of any classes in town where maybe I could sign up for like a potion workshop?
Matt: "Nothing here, but thats not a bad idea, might run that past Gilmore."
Taliesin: You should offer a workshop.
Marisha: You should absolutely offer a workshop.
Matt: "Thats a good idea,"
Marisha: You should absolutely offer a workshop. "otherwise the Lyceum would be the place to look."
Marisha: The Lyceum?
Matt: "Yes."
Marisha: Okay.
Orion: Do you have any potions of strength or any ability potions?
Matt: She leaves for a second, then comes back and goes,
Matt: "No, Im afraid those were all purchased. However, we may have more in a few weeks or so. They take some time to create and the ingredients are a little bit scarce. However, trade is opening, perhaps --"
Marisha: Someone purchased all of your potion of strength potions?
Matt: "Yes."
Marisha: Oh. How many did you have?
Matt: "We had four, I believe. Varying giant strength types."
Ashley: One person did or it was just a bunch of people just buying.
Matt: "It was a handful over the period of time."
Marisha: Oh.
Orion: Im gonna hand her also a ticket, a scroll of telescription and be like,
Orion: When it comes in, please write that it has and I will be notified via this parchment.
Matt: "Very well."
Matt: She folds it and places it in a little cubby on the side.
Orion: Thank you.
Matt: "Is there anything else you require? We have many magical, various armaments and/or protective items."
Travis: Armaments, what kind of armaments you got?
Matt: "Well, if youll follow me."
Matt: She leads you up the stairway to the second floor. The second floor itself is just a series of glass cases that are leaned at an angle. In these cases you can see there are different items just laid out, small labels at the bottom with
Travis: Oh. a brief description of the enchantment.
Matt: She leads you across, she goes,
Matt: "Well, first well start here with the ring section."
Matt: You can see theres a small case that has along this purplish velvet pillow, a bunch of different rings set out. She goes,
Matt: "We have varying degrees of rings of protection. These rings are designed to protect the individual who wears, we have one I believe with the basic enchantment, and one with one step higher above that."
Matt: The equivalent of a ring of protection +2.
Matt: "That ring runs 6500 gold. We have a ring of psychic resistance that does protect yourself from various mental intrusions. We have a ring of evasion that can be utilized three times a day, or one to three times a day. Should one of you not be quite quick enough to avoid any sort of incoming danger. You could allow yourself a successful escape. That runs 4500. We also have a ring of water walking. This one has been popular in the past for some various traveling troupes that wish to do various performances that require defying the surface of water. It gets a bit shifty now that I think about it, but you know, whatever folks will enjoy. Peasantry is easily pleased. So those are our rings at the moment. Should any of those tickle your fancy, please do let me know. Here --"
Matt: And she points over where there is a thick leather belt with like three straps across that looks highly well made with what looks like square runic carvings on the side.
Matt: "--this is what is referred to, and this was import from Kraghammer, but weve had it in here for quite some time, a belt of dwarvenkind. This belt, when adorned, does increase the physical heartiness of the individual as well as giving them positive interaction with other dwarves. And we havent fully tested it yet, but apparently it also seems to resist against poison intrusion in ones body, allows you to see better in dark places, and apparently grants you the ability of speaking, reading, and writing Dwarvish."
Laura: Oh wow.
Marisha: I need that.
Matt: It is 5000 gold.
Laura: I bet thats very expensive...
Liam: One month ago you needed that.
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: What was the first ring?
Travis: Ring of protection.
Matt: "The first ring was the ring of protection."
Marisha: Plus two, right?
Matt: It gives a plus two bonus to AC and saving throws.
Marisha: Thats really good.
Ashley: What was the evasion one?
Matt: "That one, thats the ring of evasion."
Ashley: Yes, what was that?
Matt: It has three charges and it regains 1d3 charges per day. When you fail a dexterity saving throw while wearing it, you can use your reaction to expend a charge and auto-succeed on the saving throw instead. Good for people who have low dexterity.
Travis: The one that protects you psychically, could you repeat that one on the menu, please?
Matt: "The ring of psychic resistance --"
Taliesin: Oh god.
Matt: It gives you resistance to psychic damage, so anyone does damage that is psychic-based, you take half damage.
Laura: Thats not quite it.
Travis: Its not good?
Laura: No, its not quite the same.
Travis: Not even for me?
Laura: Do you have anything to make Grog smarter?
Travis: Well, fuck off. (all laugh)
Matt: She looks over at him for a moment and goes,
Matt: No. No we dont.
Laura: Any crayons so he could be occupied?
Travis: Do you have crayons?
Matt: "We have colored writing implements for children, if youd like."
Orion: Yes, please.
Travis: I saw a few children in town. Maybe they would like them.
Matt: She goes back downstairs and comes back in a moment. She presents two small boxes that contain small colored wax things. You can see on the outside it has a picture of Gilmore, and hes doing this, and it says Gilmores Glorious Colored Sticks.
Orion: Of course.
Matt: "These are usually reserved for the children of our customers, so if the children will enjoy it, enjoy."
Travis: Ill take one of those, please.
Marisha: Yes, trust me --
Travis: The colors are quite nice.
Marisha: --the children will.
Matt: "Five gold pieces apiece."
Marisha: Five gold pieces apiece? I thought they were free, like when you go to an OCharleys or an Applebees.
Matt: "Whats an Applebees?"
Orion: Its a hellhole, apparently near where you used to live.
Matt: Its one of the layers of the Abyss, its like around --
Marisha: One of the infernal layers of the Abyss.
Matt: About layer 943.
Marisha: Its getting pretty low, yeah.
Ashley: So Ive been talking with Scanlan and I know he was interested in the plus two AC ring.
Marisha: I think we should pick that up for sure.
Ashley: Whats the price on that?
Matt: "Sixty five hundredd gold pieces for that."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: "With your discount, that would bring it --"
Matt: Goes back and looks again at her magic calculator, Im an actor not --
Liam: Its an abacus.
Matt: Exactly.
Matt: "That brings it to 5850."
Ashley: Well, he does have this amazing ruby gem. He was maybe thinking of trading that for maybe bringing down the price?
Matt: Do we know how much that was worth?
Liam: Uh.
Matt: Has Scanlan looked at his sheet and found what its worth?
Liam: Scanlan? Speak up,
Ashley: Scanlan,
Liam: Scanlan? Speak up,
Liam: Do you know how much its worth?
Liam: I think you wrote it down. Hes talking quietly.
Matt: There was the diamond also that was repaired in the mending wheel.
Matt: He can look that up as well.
Marisha: There was a diamond.
Liam: Vex, do you remember how much that diamond was worth, we got that diamond --
Matt: Oh no, we lost them.
Taliesin: We lost them.
Marisha: Oh no!
Matt: Redial, redial!
Marisha: This is important!
Liam: I got it.
Marisha: How much is the diamond worth?
Matt: "Regardless. Other things of interest, nothing that would make him smarter, that would make him quicker."
Liam: This is so period. Its just like Lord of the Rings. Beep beep beep.
Matt: Magical sending stone.
Liam: God damn it!
Marisha: Answer!
Matt: Answer your Facetime.
Marisha: Answer, bitches.
Matt: Vex!
Orion: I hate when you call and you know that theyre there and they dont pick up.
Liam: All right, well Im not here anyway, so Im just gonna keep doing this, as you were.
Matt: Well come to it. so Im just gonna keep doing this, as you were.
Matt: "Regardless."
Marisha: We know youre there!
Matt: She continues on, showing you through, she goes,
Matt: "Well, I dont necessarily have anything that would make him smarter. We do have something that would make anyone quicker."
Matt: She goes a second, there is a big, thick leather tome.
Matt: "This is an ancient tome that was enchanted many, many generations back. Upon properly reading and studying this tome, one would increase their physical dexterity permanently."
Marisha: Oh, I like that.
Matt: "It only has its abilities and power once a century, so it does come quite pricey."
Marisha: What is that price?
Matt: "Fifteen hundred gold pieces."
Marisha: We should buy that.
Ashley: We should probably buy it.
Marisha: A tome that increases your dexterity plus one.
Laura: Its on my phone now. We switched.
Matt: Thats okay.
Matt: "So there is the manual of quickness of action, we also have the hat of disguise --"
Matt: And she produces this like -- (Facetime noises)
Matt: And she produces this like --
Matt: She produces this fine brass cap that has intricate swirling runes on it and what looks like a small set of ears that are pushed on the sides so when it fits on the head it looks almost like a smaller head on top of yours. She says,
Matt: "This cap when worn, however, one can alter their appearance however they see fit. We also have --"
Matt: She pulls out this thick, leather armor that has a brownish-blue trimmed hue to it and goes,
Matt: "This is what we refer to as coldsnap leather armor. It has an enchantment to improve ones armor class by two. While wearing it, you have resistance to cold damage."
Marisha: Is it leather armor, you said?
Matt: "Leather armor, yes."
Marisha: How much is that?
Matt: "That is 7500 gold pieces. We also have the cape of Mountebank. It is a cape that when triggered --"
Matt: She takes it and shifts it for a second, you can see a little bit of smoke plumes off of it, smells sulfurish. She goes,
Matt: "While wearing it, you can use it to teleport yourself a short distance instantaneously, once per day. We have this --"
Matt: She pulls another dark cloak off the wall. This one looks like its made of dark fur, but as she shakes it you can see these two little tendrils are on it. They like wiggle about, these little spiked edges to the tendrils.
Matt: "This is a cloak of displacement, enchanted and taken from the body of a displacer beast. While wearing it, it makes it so your body projects an illusion. Anyone attempting to cause you harm has difficulty actually finding purchase on your physical form, not knowing where you truly stand."
Orion: I will take that cape.
Matt: "It is 4500 gold pieces."
Orion: Wonderful. Vex?
Orion: Oh, shit. Shes not here.
Matt: "Ill put this aside as a possibility. We have a pearl of power."
Matt: She pulls up from this small box, she opens up the top lid.
Matt: "This enchanted pearl, you can use it to speak a command word and regain one expended spell slot, up to third level, that youve already used. Once youve used the pearl, it cant be used until the next dawn, so once per day you can just return. Its for your caster-types."
Marisha: A third-level spell?
Matt: "Yes, up to third level, one spell slot, you can immediately restore it. It does require attunement, however, and you cant have more than three items attuned to you, so be aware of your limitations."
Ashley: Whats the price on that one?
Matt: "This is 550 gold pieces."
Ashley: Okay.
Orion: Pike, do you have any 3rd-level healing spells?
Ashley: Do I have 3rd-level healing spells? I do.
Matt: "Well put it aside as a possibility. I also have --"
Matt: And you move to the side, going through the armor section as well, she goes --
Matt: "I have a mithral chain shirt, as well as an enchanted mithral chain shirt, there is a plus one enchantment on it as well. They are flexible and can be worn under normal clothing, does not impose disadvantage on dexterity or stealth checks. It is considered light armor. There is golden chainmail, its a plus one enchantment."
Matt: Then she goes to what looks to be a series of weapons. She brings forth a very fine-looking dagger, that has --
Liam: Everyone hears from the back, Scanlans voice piping up saying, "Just buy all this shit!"
Marisha: Just buy all this shit.
Ashley: Buy everything.
Marisha: How much money did we have? Didnt we have like at least --
Liam: Thirty... thirty-ish. I mean, Im not here, but --
Matt: And you still have money you havent collected in Kraghammer, too.
Marisha: Huh?
Matt: Theres money you still havent collected in Kraghammer. Lord Nostoc Greyspine, you guys made a deal with him before you went down in the pits.
Liam: So maybe we could open up a line -- Im sure you guys could open up a line of credit with my buddy Gilmore.
Marisha: A line of credit?
Liam: Yeah, an I.O.U. Once were back from our day.
Marisha: So weve got like roughly 30k?
Liam: In our possession now. Thirty-one.
Orion: We have over that. Because Vex and Grog are with us. And they have --
Matt: She has all the money. So well just keep track of what you guys spend and bring it back to Vex, your treasurer. And shell be really angry that you guys spent all that money.
Liam: Shes trying, shes trying, its coming up on my phone.
Orion: The trick is, we dont know how much the total is.
Marisha: We generally would if our partys here. She just cant tell us at this moment.
Orion: Its well over thirty. I think we have closer to fifty. ... maybe forty.
Matt: So she presents this dagger to you guys --
Marisha: We dont want to deplete all of our funds.
Matt: So she presents this dagger to you guys --
Matt: "This is a fine dagger,"
Marisha: We dont want to deplete all of our funds.
Matt: "This is a fine dagger, the blood runs themselves are enchanted --"
Marisha: We also spent a lot on the keep, "the blood runs themselves are enchanted --" dont forget that, we dumped a lot of money into the keep.
Matt: Yep, you did.
Marisha: So we might have more like thirty.
Matt: You guys spent quite a bit on the keep. All right.
Ashley: Whats this dagger?
Matt: "This dagger actually can take the lifeforce from an enemy when delivering a very strong blow."
Matt: Essentially, on a critical hit on the attack roll -- (all cheer)
Ashley: We got it. (all cheer)
Orion: Here they are. (all cheer)
Marisha: How much money do we have?
Laura: We have --hold on, let me look.
Travis: Twenty-four thousand --
Laura: No. I normally dont,
Laura: We have about 20,000, all right?
Orion: So we have 50,000 total. Because we just had 30, we just got paid 30 grand, right?
Matt: Yeah, ten.
Marisha: No.
Marisha: Ten grand.
Matt: You got ten grand from Allura and you currently have a floating --
Marisha: And she added that.
Orion: Thats added?
Laura: I already added that, were at 20,000.
Orion: I thought we were at 30 --
Marisha: We spent almost 50,000 dollars on our keep.
Orion: Right, but --
Travis: Plus those fucks in Kraghammer owe us a fortune.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, 25,000 gold is still owed by Lord Nostoc Greyspine.
Orion: Thats who owed us.
Marisha: Yes, thats what were saying.
Orion: What?
Marisha: Thats why were saying we only have 20 or 30 --
Taliesin: No, we havent gone back there.
Orion: So well have to go back and get it.
Taliesin: Eventually, yeah.
Matt: "So while you --"
Laura: Will you point us a little bit out so we can see --
Matt: "As I was saying, this dagger, upon a very impactful wound on a foe, steals a bit of its life force, dealing an additional ten necrotic damage, and then gives the wielder ten temporary hitpoints."
Laura: Whoa, thats major.
Matt: "So theres that. We also have an enchanted heavy maul, and we have --this is quite a find here."
Matt: As she pulls out this wooden case, she pulls back the wooden top to it. As she does, you can see theres a little bit of ice crystal thats gathered along the interior of the wooden case. There inside sits a short sword, a relatively thick short blade, but the blade itself is like a blue, almost glimmering metal, and theres actually a rising frozen mist that drifts off the blade.
Matt: "This is an enchanted frostbrand. It acts as a shortsword. Whenever it does damage to an enemy, it does an additional 1d6 cold damage. And while you hold the weapon you have resistance to any fire damage you would take. At freezing temperatures, it sheds a ten foot radius of dim light, and when you draw the weapon, you extinguish all magical flames within 30 feet of you."
Taliesin: Fancy.
Matt: "And those are currently all the things we have at the moment. Were working on a few more things that will be ready in the next couple of weeks, but those are the current haul for our above-the-average consumer. Magical creations."
Ashley: I have a question.
Matt: "Yes."
Ashley: Do you have anything that can make armor... ... quieter? (all laugh)
Ashley: Maybe like a really heavy armor, thats really quiet.
Liam: That oil from the Wizard of Oz.
Matt: "We dont have anything for that, but we could have it commissioned for you if youd like."
Ashley: I would like to see about that.
Matt: "All right. Ill have to talk to Gilmore. Thats more in his realm of enchantment, but that is a possibility."
Matt: She adjusts her glasses again.
Matt: "When he returns, whenever that is, we can discuss with him what youd like, yes."
Ashley: That would be great.
Matt: "All right, well."
Ashley: Thank you.
Orion: I will take the enchanted mithral shirt
Orion: I will take the enchanted mithral shirt and the cape, thank you very much.
Matt: "All right."
Matt: And she grabs the --
Orion: But thats not the total yet. Vex has to talk about the rest of what we want.
Ashley: Whats the price on the dagger and the sword?
Matt: "The sword is 8500 gold pieces. The dagger is 7800 gold pieces. This is without your discount. The mithral chain shirt, it is medium armor, I lied. It is 5250 gold pieces."
Orion: Wait, I cant --
Matt: You cant wear armor.
Matt: "And you were looking at the pearl of power, which is 550 gold, and there is the cloak of displacement, which is 4500 gold pieces."
Travis: Would you be interested in a trade?
Matt: "What do you have to trade?"
Travis: Weve got lots of bits from dragons, lots of bits from umber hulks, and weve got basilisk eggs.
Marisha: We also have that diamond and the ruby. Do we know how much that is?
Orion: Yes. Do we know how much that is?
Laura: We also have some jewels.
Marisha: I definitely say we pick up that ring with the AC and I wouldnt mind having that leather --
Laura: The ring of protection?
Marisha: That ring of protection that gives you plus two to your AC. That we need for somebody. And I wouldnt mind having that leather armor. That adds a plus two to my AC.
Matt: "Cold snap?"
Marisha: Yup.
Matt: "All right. There are the things we are looking at currently on this table, we have the belt of dwarvenkind, the manual of quickness of action --"
Marisha: We should get that too.
Matt: "--cold snap leather armor --"
Marisha: Get that manual.
Matt: "--cloak of displacement, ring of protection plus two --"
Ashley: Put the dagger and sword on the table also.
Ashley: Just in case.
Matt: "All right."
Ashley: Throwing it out there to see, I dont know.
Matt: "They are there on the table."
Laura: We have nowhere near enough for all of this.
Laura: We have nowhere near enough for all of this.
Orion: Lets see what the total is.
Marisha: We could trade,
Orion: Lets see what the total is.
Marisha: Lets see what we can trade around maybe.
Matt: "So the total for all of these items, including --"
Matt: She starts going through her --
Marisha: I want new stuff. I havent gotten new armor since we started.
Taliesin: I havent either.
Orion: You should get the mithral shirt, it adds something to your --
Marisha: Do you wear light armor or medium armor?
Taliesin: I would guess light armor, I imagine.
Matt: "With the discount, this entire haul would come to 49,815 gold pieces."
Ashley: Whats that, how much?
Marisha: 50k.
Matt: "49,815 gold pieces with your discount for this entire sum. Now, would you like to pay in gold? Would you like to pay in--"
Liam: Get the dragon armor out.
Orion: Twenty-four total, before the dwarven--
Ashley: Maybe we can see how much we can trade of what we have, maybe we can get a little--
Laura: How much is a pound of dragon scales worth to you?
Matt: "What dragon? Show me the scales."
Laura: Blue dragon scales.
Travis: Blue dragon scales, here you go.
Matt: You pull them out of the bag of holding. She takes a few and she takes her glasses off and then pulls out from a pocket this intricate-looking, multi-lensed tinkering viewing device and inspects it very closely.
Laura: It was a very powerful dragon.
Matt: "Apparently not powerful enough if you have these."
Travis: Hey Pike, dont take this shit.
Marisha: I dont know if that was a compliment or an insult.
Travis: Hey Pike, dont take this shit.
Matt: Puts it away in her pocket and goes,
Marisha: Taking it as a compliment.
Matt: Puts it away in her pocket and goes,
Matt: "These are legitimate. I wont question how you came about them, but they are definitely legitimate. A pound, you say?"
Laura: How much is a pound worth to you?
Travis: We have several pounds.
Laura: And Ill tell you how much we have.
Laura: And Ill tell you how much we have.
Matt: "Say a pound of dragon scales --"
Matt: And the dragon scales themselves are about that big each, theyre about the size of a peach.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Matt: Dragons are big, especially this one.
Matt: "Blue dragon scales, Id say a pound is maybe, guessing close to eight to ten scales. That would be worth about, Id put that at 1,000 gold credit for each pound provided."
Travis: I have at least 11 pounds.
Laura: Yeah.
Orion: Perfect.
Laura: So thats another, at least, what? Eleven thousand?
Liam: Five hundred thousand gold right there.
Laura: Thats like another 10,000 we have in dragon scales.
Travis: We have 11 pounds of dragon scales.
Marisha: And how about that diamond that we put in the mending wheel?
Orion: No, ruby.
Laura: Its flawless and beautiful and so sparkly.
Marisha: How much?
Matt: Pulls that again, looks over it.
Marisha: Catch.
Matt: "This ruby, probably about 500 gold pieces."
Laura: Thats it?
Travis: We also have three dragon teeth, fangs from the beasts mouth.
Matt: Make a perception roll.
Orion: Oh sweet, and they froze there.
Matt: Or not that, a persuasion roll.
Orion: Oh no, they --
Marisha: Oh no, they didnt!
Liam: Im gonna tell them. Oh my gosh.
Marisha: Persuasion roll. Oh no!
Liam: You have to make a persuasion roll, quick.
Taliesin: Thats hilarious.
Matt: Timing is everything, folks. Timing is everything.
Taliesin: Timing is everything.
Ashley: I have one dragon fang around my neck.
Matt: Thats a keepsake for actually slaying a dragon. Youre welcome to trade that. Its worth quite a bit.
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: No.
Ashley: That was the white dragon?
Matt: That was the white dragon.
Orion: Yeah, it was the white dragon you killed.
Matt: Thats the one that you got the final blow on.
Marisha: What was your persuasion?
Matt: Thats the one that you got the final blow on.
Taliesin: Not worth the memory of killing a white dragon.
Marisha: What was your persuasion?
Taliesin: Not worth the memory of killing a white dragon.
Ashley: I know, I gotta keep it.
Matt: Anyway.
Taliesin: Gotta keep it.
Ashley: Keepsake, cant put a price on it.
Liam: Ten. Ten, they rolled a ten.
Matt: They rolled a ten. She says,
Matt: "Dragons teeth actually, strangely enough, are a little easier to find. I would put, each dragons tooth available would probably add about 250 gold pieces to the exchange."
Travis: Weve got three.
Marisha: And how about the basilisk eggs? While were --
Liam: Get it out out.
Marisha: --cleaning our bag out, exactly.
Travis: We have two basilisk eggs were willing to part with.
Matt: As you pull out the basilisk eggs, you pull it out and immediately there is a stench that is emanating from these eggs that have been in your bag of holding for probably close to eight or nine months.
Travis: No, the smell means theyre good.
Matt: This is now the fourth time shes looked at you with a deadpan glance and adjusted her glasses.
Matt: "Were not interested in the eggs, but thank you anyway."
Travis: All right, we do have three pints of dragons blood.
Laura: This is super, super powerful.
Travis: It mightve congealed a little bit actually, though.
Ashley: No, its absolutely just really fresh because we put it in Tupperware.
Matt: "Well stick with the scales for now." put it in Tupperware.
Laura: Youll stick with the scales.
Travis: Right, any chance youd be interested in claws of an umber hulk?
Liam: I like that the 400,000 people who saw that thing are tuning in to the shopping episode.
Taliesin: To the shopping episode! are tuning in to the shopping episode.
Marisha: To the shopping episode! are tuning in to the shopping episode.
Orion: Hi everybody.
Liam: Weve been fighting and killing for weeks,
Liam: Weve been fighting and killing for weeks, and now were haggling over prices.
Orion: But we do need new gear.
Matt: Timing is everything.
Marisha: We do need new gear.
Matt: This has now turned into the flea-market episode. Hey, you guys guide the story. Its fun though.
Marisha: You guys guide the story. Hey, you guys guide the story. Its fun though.
Matt: "Wed say with the credit from the dragon scales, thatll take 10,000, 11,000 away from the current pricing, that would put us at 39,815 for this batch."
Marisha: So can we open that line of credit we were talking about?
Matt: "What line of credit?"
Marisha: That line were talking about right now. (all laugh)
Orion: Well said, your majesty.
Marisha: That one that I just said two seconds ago?
Liam: Wait, DM, where am I with Gilmore?
Matt: Well get to that right now.
Orion: It takes time to make a --
Laura: We could advertise for Gilmore.
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: We could advertise, but maybe we should wait until they get back so if their walk goes really well, whatever that means, we could maybe try to strike a deal.
Marisha: Right, put this on layaway?
Laura: Hell probably give us everything for free.
Ashley: Because we probably need to talk to Gilmore about the credit.
Orion: True.
Taliesin: Yes, thats fair.
Marisha: So can we hold this for now?
Ashley: Well wait until Gilmore gets back.
Matt: "Certainly."
Ashley: Well wait until Gilmore gets back.
Marisha: Oh, good.
Matt: "If you wish."
Matt: Starts putting everything into a small layaway pile in the corner.
Marisha: So you guys. Natural history museum? Pizza and then natural history museum?
Orion: What is pizza?
Matt: In the meantime.
Orion: It sounds wonderful.
Marisha: Weve got time, weve gotta wait for their man-date, we can go see some sights.
Matt: In the meantime. for their man-date, we can go see some sights.
Liam: In-between time.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: In-between time.
Matt: Yes. Gilmore, who has sweeped you out into the middle of Abedars Promenade, takes you by the arm and begins to lead you happily up towards the Erudite Quarter of Emon, which has a secondary wall around it as well. As he brings you along, he talks happily and loudly about how,
Matt: "Its rather wonderful the way that we were presented with this opportunity over in Westruun. Its magnificent, the team theyve assembled to build this brand. Im very excited at how they brought it to my attention. I wanted to keep things very localized, of course, but it seems--"
Liam: Will you trust the folk in Emon to handle your business or will you go between?
Matt: "The folk in Westruun?"
Liam: Yes.
Matt: "The folk in Westruun?"
Matt: "I have a couple of friends there that will oversee the process, but I will be very involved and keeping an eye, so Im not too terribly worried. Besides, its a much smaller business were running there and itll be fine. Oh, look ahead."
Matt: As you guys step into the Erudite Quarter, hes now brought you into essentially what is an outdoor botanical garden that is just a very nice walk. Grass across the ground, with fine well-cut bushes. There is a canopy of beautiful trees that are arcane, through arcane means, twisted and sculpted to form this long tunnel. Its strangely romantic. As Gilmore begins to walk you down, theres a fountain to the side, and he says,
Matt: "What about you? Hows Vox Machina been? Howve they been treating you? How are you, Vax?"
Liam: Well, were tired, to be sure. I was not kidding before, we really are lucky to be alive. And thats thanks in large part to a lot of the gear you outfitted us with the last time.
Matt: "Wondrous, Im happy to help. And have you been keeping up your end of the bargain? Have you been singing the praises of Gilmores Glorious Goods across Kraghammer and beyond?"
Liam: You were mentioned in Kraghammer. I regret to inform you, though, that we were forced to travel underground rather quickly and the duergar and the other things that we ran into were not really customers youd want to deal with. No, our lives were too much in harms way. But now that were above ground, Im looking to pick up where I left off.
Matt: "Very well." And do your shop honor.
Liam: Your contribution to what weve done --
Liam: And I place my hand on his hand.
Liam: --was no small part in our survival.
Liam: And I give it just a little squeeze.
Liam: And I want to thank you. I dont know that I would be standing here if not for your help.
Matt: "Had it not been for Gilmores Glorious Goods." (all laugh)
Matt: He looks you deep in the eyes, pats the top of your hand, and goes,
Matt: "Vax. This, that moment, that is why I do what I do."
Liam: Youre a unique man, Gilmore. No question. Never met anyone quite like you.
Matt: "Well. Would you care to share a glass of wine with a man not quite like anyone else youve met?"
Liam: Indeed. What do you recommend in the area?
Matt: "Oh, please, come, there are casks that pour the finest of honeyed Syngoran wine. I know perhaps youve not been home for quite some time?"
Liam: Thats a complicated thing for me, one that Im not really quite ready to talk about yet.
Matt: "Oh."
Liam: Maybe someday.
Matt: "Maybe with enough wine."
Liam: You old so-and-so.
Marisha: You old so-and-so.
Matt: About an hour and a half, time passes before eventually theres a loud clattering at the front of Gilmores Glorious Goods, where a laughing Vax and Gilmore come stumbling in, flush of face, with emptied goblets, laughing to themselves. Is there anything specific before this moment that you wanted to ask --
Liam: I took the duergar, I was holding her right over the cliff, and I just cut, and she fell! She fell! I didnt know what I was doing, I just did it!
Matt: "You are ridiculous, Vax'ildan! Oh, it tickles me."
Ashley: Hi! Hello!
Matt: "Oh, good to see your friends."
Ashley: Sounds like you had fun.
Liam: Family. Family, family. Ive had a couple of drinks. Im an adult, I can do that.
Liam: What have you found? Have you guys been shopping?
Marisha: Well, we have!
Orion: Yes!
Marisha: Well, we have!
Marisha: We were hoping that you and Gilmore had a wonderful time and that, we just thought wed wait for you. We didnt want to make any final decisions without one of our main party members.
Matt: "It was delightful. You travel with the finest companion. We told stories, we cried, we laughed. It was a delight."
Matt: "Ive had a few."
Matt: He collects himself for a minute.
Liam: I pat him on the back, I do a little circle with my hand.
Marisha: Remember, you have advantage.
Matt: "Im not as spry as I once was, unfortunately. But yes! Business to attend. What do you need? What can we do?"
Matt: At which point Sherri, waiting in the back, says,
Matt: "Sir, theyve requested perhaps a few things in bulk. The current amount comes to about roughly 40,000 gold, with your discount."
Matt: "Forty thousand gold, oh, well. Certainly. What seems to be the problem?"
Ashley: Well, I dont know. We were just talking about, since were purchasing so many things, and since weve gained some popularity here in Emon, walking around, people are noticing us walking around...
Ashley: I shouldnt be the one talking right now.
Ashley: Maybe we could open up a line of credit.
Liam: Obviously were only shopping with you, Gilmore, at this point.
Matt: He looks about the rest of the group and says,
Matt: "Not everyone seems to be wearing the same patented Gilmores Glorious Armor that was given not too long ago. So thats not true."
Orion: We did find some off of dead things.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: "And those dead things are not under the umbrella of Gilmores Glorious Expansion."
Orion: Oh.
Matt: "But should we discuss this, where would this credit be placed against, what do you have that you could ante?"
Liam: What have you guys been talking about? We do have a big pile of dragons scales and some gem --
Laura: We do.
Taliesin: We also are owed money.
Liam: And we are owed money in Kraghammer.
Laura: One question that
Liam: And we are owed money in Kraghammer. Grog just whispered to me.
Liam: Yes?
Laura: How much is a platinum worth?
Matt: "What is a platinum? Platinum is worth ten gold pieces."
Liam: Where we at, girl?
Orion: She is displeased.
Laura: We may have a lot more money than I thought we had, because Grogs been hiding money in the bag of holding. (all laugh)
Travis: Its really shiny.
Travis: Im in trouble, Matt. Shes really mad.
Marisha: Wait, is this like when you slapped Trinket on the ass mad?
Laura: No. Not close, not even close. Doesnt mean as much as Trinket means.
Liam: This is finances, this sounds like a married couple.
Taliesin: How much platinum do we have hiding in the bag of holding?
Travis: I dont have the number in front of me, but its at least 150.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Where did we procure that again, Grog? Im sorry, Im a little fershnickered.
Travis: I dont remember, but its in the bag of holding.
Laura: I remember getting platinum.
Marisha: I do remember getting platinum, too.
Matt: But you dont have a number.
Travis: No, I know its at least 100, at least 150, I think its somewhere up north of 150, I just cant remember the number.
Liam: Did we get that from the dragon, where did we get that?
Matt: It was a combination of the dragon, the horde you rage-looted --
Laura: Rage-hoarding. the horde you rage-looted --
Laura: Rage-looting.
Liam: Ill never forget the rage-looting.
Ashley: Rage-looting.
Liam: Ill never forget the rage-looting.
Travis: Its my shiny, though, I didnt want to give it to her, though. Shes evil. You see how she haggles!
Liam: Its true. Shes my sister, I know, Grog. But right now we need to put that aside and do whats best for the party.
Travis: Well, we could buy a party with all that. (all laugh)
Liam: Not that kind of party, Grog.
Laura: I think we have enough to buy everything if you guys want.
Liam: Grog, money is meant to be spent.
Travis: Im going to drink! (all laugh)
Ashley: That solves everything.
Matt: Scanlan goes,
Sam: I agree. Drinks and whoring.
Matt: And smacks Grog in the side. The two of them leave off into the evening to go ahead and make use of their return to Emon properly.
Liam: Vax looks at Gilmore and just shakes his head.
Matt: "There is business to be had, but lets get business out of the way so we can get to pleasure."
Ashley: Oh, shit.
Liam: Cheers to that.
Marisha: Cheers to that.
Taliesin: I have tinkering to do anyway.
Laura: What did we agree the total for everything we wanted was?
Matt: "Roughly 39,500 gold pieces."
Liam: Pish-posh.
Laura: Roughly. Gilmore.
Matt: "Thats with the discount! I already offered this to you, and you havent even kept up your end of the bargain by wearing my emblazoned symbol and my"
Laura: Dont you want us to advertise in Westruun for you? "immortalized Gilmores Glorious Armor."
Liam: We would, Gilmore, we would be wearing that. Again, we nearly died. The armor that you gave me is gone, and Im lucky to be alive today, and that armor helped me be where I am at the moment.
Matt: "How much credit do you wish to open?"
Liam: Fifty gold.
Ashley: Thousand? Fifty thousand?
Liam: Fifty, ah yes. Fifty thousand.
Matt: "Because 50 gold I can definitely do."
Liam: Weve been out drinking for two hours, man.
Matt: "This is true. Im sorry."
Ashley: One million, please.
Matt: "Thats a tough order."
Matt: "You mentioned you had money waiting for you in Kraghammer. How much was --"
Laura: Yes, we do.
Matt: "How much is waiting for you there?"
Liam: Twenty-five, wasnt it?
Laura: It was 25,000.
Matt: "How about we open a 25,000 gold piece line of credit here with Gilmores Glorious Goods that you only need to pay back within the next month."
Liam: Thats fair.
Matt: "Giving you time to arrive. If its not paid, you will be hunted. But Im sure that wont be a worry, will it?"
Orion: How far is Kraghammer from here?
Taliesin: Not far.
Laura: Its a weeks ride, isnt it?
Orion: I cant teleport everyone.
Marisha: Gilmore, question. Maybe you should consider making little pins that we could just wear on top of our armor? Because wearing your armor, we have our own clothes that we like, so maybe like a pin.
Matt: He steps forward and says,
Matt: "Oh --"
Marisha: Or like a patch?
Matt: "--thats not even a worry."
Matt: He pulls out a small implement, this wand, and he flicks it over your shoulder. And all of a sudden an arcane swirl around your armor, with a big flash of sparks and glitter almost. You look down and there is, emblazoned upon your current armored form, a symbol of Gilmores Glorious Goods now permanently emblazoned on the leather.
Marisha: Ah!
Matt: "Easy enough to fix."
Liam: What a good idea.
Marisha: I was going to put it on that leather.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: I was going to put it on that leather.
Marisha: I was going to put it on that leather. My mom gave this to me.
Matt: "Well, your mother has not provided for you the means of keeping the deal we already made."
Marisha: Can you take this off when we pay you back and put it on that one?
Marisha: Oh, come on.
Taliesin: I think itll transfer when you change.
Marisha: Will it transfer when I change armor?
Matt: "I dont know." (all laugh)
Ashley: Well find out.
Matt: "So. Twenty-five thousand gold line of credit, within a month or youll be hunted."
Marisha: Wait, do you really have a unicorn as part of your logo?
Matt: "Its"
Marisha: What?
Matt: "Its a creature of my creation, I designed it when I was a child --"
Liam: Its a phallic thing.
Marisha: Ah.
Laura: So we open the 25,000 line of credit with you and you give us all the things we want?
Matt: "If that is what you want."
Liam: Dont we have a lot of platinum? What are we dickering prices with?
Laura: Yes! Why dont we just buy it now, and then we wont have a line of credit with Gilmore?
Travis: (cries) and then we wont have a line of credit with Gilmore?
Liam: Yes, well use some of the platinum. One platinum is equal to ten gold. Sorry, Gilmore. Trying to dicker over rates.
Ashley: Not a line of credit?
Liam: No line of credit, well pay for it outright in cold hard platinum.
Matt: You dont have the amount of platinum with you.
Liam: But Grogs got it.
Matt: Grog said, because he doesnt have it in front of him, he has around 150 platinum.
Laura: We can pay him back, its true.
Matt: Thats roughly 1500 gold.
Matt: Thats roughly 1500 gold.
Liam: But where is it?
Matt: Its in the bag of holding, but he doesnt have the bag of holding information in front of him.
Liam: He doesnt have the info. And because he doesnt have the sheet --
Taliesin: --next game.
Liam: --and he cant read the exact amount?
Matt: Yup. Because he said in memory its 150 platinum. Thats only --
Liam: I thought it was a 100,000.
Matt: Oh, no.
Laura: No no no, 150 platinum.
Liam: Oh, 150.
Matt: Hundred thousand youd be the richest man in the fucking world.
Liam: Okay. in the fucking world.
Matt: So 150 platinum --
Liam: What do you think, sis?
Matt: --based on memory is 11,500,
Liam: Vox Machina treasurer?
Matt: which is a little helpful.
Laura: Right.
Liam: What do you think?
Laura: That would put us at about 30,000 that we have to spend left, which the signal cut out so it doesnt matter.
Matt: No, weve got you.
Marisha: No, we can hear you!
Liam: No, weve got you.
Marisha: No, we can hear you!
Laura: Okay.
Liam: So the total tab is what again, Gilmore?
Laura: How much do we have? He does have a picture of it. We have 1,620 platinum.
Marisha: What!
Matt: Is that right? There you go.
Orion: So thats like--
Matt: 16,000 gold pieces.
Liam: All right. Spend it.
Liam: Spend it.
Marisha: All right. No!
Ashley: So we dont need to open up a line of credit?
Liam: No.
Matt: Ten gold per platinum.
Orion: We have 1,000.
Matt: A thousand platinum. One thousand six hundred platinum. Move the decimal point. That brings it to 16,000 gold pieces.
Orion: Move two on that.
Matt: No, its not 100 gold per platinum, ten gold per platinum.
Matt: Ive been saying ten gold per platinum this whole time, guys.
Taliesin: No, Im with you.
Orion: I get it.
Liam: Were losing our audience. Ring it up.
Matt: Were getting into math in this.
Marisha: Our charity, 826LA, after-school tutoring.
Taliesin: It couldve made this all go so much better.
Marisha: Really good to have,
Taliesin: It couldve made this all go so much better.
Marisha: Your reading and your writing and your arithmetic.
Taliesin: For players who can read good.
Marisha: For players who can read good.
Liam: Ring it up, well take it.
Ashley: Well take it all.
Liam: The whole lot.
Ashley: And then, could I commission you, by the way, to maybe make some armor thats really heavy armor but very quiet?
Matt: "How heavy?"
Ashley: How heavy can you make it?
Matt: "I can work on plate armor if youd like, but an enchantment of that magnitude would be the only enchantment it would have. So it would be the equivalent of full plate armor and the entire enchantment would enable you to move a little more easily inside it, and that would cost, it would take about, I'd say, a month to enchant on my end and would cost about, not including the cost of the actual armor, materials and time required, Id put it at about 8,000 gold pieces?"
Liam: Worth it.
Liam: Well fund the money.
Ashley: And itll just be really quiet?
Matt: "It will enable you to move freer within the armor."
Liam: By a turn. Is 8,000 Vox Machinas rate, or the general rate?
Matt: "That is through our friendship and our current arrangement."
Liam: Thank you. Its appreciated.
Matt: "Mm."
Matt: "Business is business, but please dont take this solemn,"
Liam: Of course. "but please dont take this solemn, intense face to be anything other than friendship, this is just business and I run a business."
Liam: Understood.
Matt: "Good."
Liam: Im not taking advantage.
Matt: "All right."
Matt: "So. To take all of these items, with the dragon scales included, bringing it down to 39,000 gold. Well call it even, 39,000 gold."
Taliesin: Fair.
Laura: That wasnt much of a discount, Gilmore.
Liam: Hush up, Vexahlia.
Liam: Done, sold, thank you.
Liam: With our thanks.
Matt: "So minus the platinum, thats 22,000 gold pieces after the platinum and dragon scales."
Marisha: And we have that, right?
Matt: "And you have 25,000 gold credit if youd like."
Laura: We have, hold on... gotta go away for a minute.
Liam: Were passing on the credit, Gilmore.
Laura: We have plenty left.
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: All right.
Liam: You guys are a black screen, what happened?
Taliesin: They paused it.
Laura: I was looking at my calculator.
Liam: All right, we hear you. There you are!
Orion: Abacus!
Liam: Youre so dark sometimes, Vexahlia. I swear.
Laura: So the total was 20,000 minus the platinum and the dragon scales?
Matt: "Twenty-two thousand."
Laura: Yes, we still have enough, so.
Matt: "All right. So a deal?"
Marisha: Deal!
Taliesin: Deal.
Laura: My god, all of our moneys gone.
Matt: He snaps his fingers, Sherri comes and presents all the items that she had currently in a little stowaway bin off to the side of the desk. Brings them out to the rest of you and places it on the counter. Gilmore immediately snaps his fingers and a contract shows up. He writes up the numbers exchanged, making note of his business, passes it out.
Matt: "Please sign here. Anyone that represents you and your fine Vox Machina. Sign here and present the money."
Laura: I guess Ill do that.
Taliesin: You do that.
Matt: "Vexahlia."
Matt: He hands you a quill. Takes your coin, slides you, and you now have this entire batch of magical items
Laura: Thats pretty cool.
Matt: to distribute as you see fit.
Matt: to distribute as you see fit.
Marisha: Yes! New armor!
Matt: And from that point --
Laura: Make sure we get some of those things.
Matt: "An absolute pleasure doing business with all of you. Absolutely."
Marisha: Thank you, Gilmore.
Matt: "Thank you."
Marisha: So really though. Will this transfer to that?
Matt: "I have no idea."
Marisha: I was wanting to ask you, Gilmore. Have you considered maybe doing potion-making workshops?
Matt: "Hm. Ill put some thought to that."
Marisha: Okay. Let me know.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: I feel very uncomfortable and I leave. I go outside to hang out with Trinket.
Matt: Okay.
Matt: As Gilmore takes the change behind the counter, he goes,
Matt: "Ive got a bit more business to do here. Vax, I greatly appreciate spending the afternoon with you. Where are you staying?"
Liam: I take him by the hand, do one of these clasps, and say,
Liam: We live here now, were residents. I havent had time to tell you. We have a keep, our own keep. You should come visit. Its on the outskirts of town. Its called Greyskull Keep, and youre welcome any time. Day or night.
Matt: "Good to know. All right. To business I go. I bid you all a fine farewell."
Taliesin: Adieu.
Marisha: Bye, Gilmore.
Matt: He goes back through his beaded exit to the back room and leaves you to the rest of your-- --at which point Sherri goes,
Matt: "Ill get back to work."
Matt: She goes back up, leaving you guys alone in the main chamber as a couple of other customers start walking around.
Matt: I think well call that the adventure for the evening.
Marisha: Thanks for watching us shop.
Ashley: Thanks for watching us shop!
Laura: All the moneys gone!
Matt: All the moneys gone. You spent it, guys.
Marisha: We have 25 waiting for us in Kraghammer.
Matt: Thats true, you didnt open the line of credit.
Laura: Yeah, wed better get that.
Marisha: At least were not in debt.
Liam: The world is full of money, Vex'halia.
Travis: We got more money?
Ashley: Who had dibs on what?
Taliesin: I wanted the dexterity boost and I was thinking of the mithral.
Marisha: And I want the leather armor and he wants the cape.
Ashley: I can't use the sword, right? The frostband sword?
Liam: No, clerics can't use swords.
Matt: Check on your class, you might have access to it. Let me check here for you real fast.
Liam: It used to be just blunt weapons for clerics, wasn't it?
Matt: That's the older version, they've changed a few things. They don't do it too often. Let me double-check. Cleric has access to all simple weapons. The sword is a martial weapon so you cannot use that as a weapon.
Ashley: That's okay.
Zac: Oh man. These donations tonight, guys.
Matt: That's great. I'm glad you guys are enjoying watching our--
Laura: Me and Travis are going to cut out.
Matt: -- Laura and Travis are taking off, guys.
Marisha: Bye guys, have fun in Florida!
Liam: We were so glad to have you, sister!
Laura: We were so glad to be here.
Marisha: What con are you guys at?
Laura: We're at MetroCon, down in Tampa.
Matt: MetroCon in Tampa. So if you guys want to go see Vex and Grog in person and you're in the Florida/Tampa area, go to MetroCon this weekend and say hi.
Laura: Let's see how tired we are tomorrow.
Marisha: MetroCon in Tampa.
Liam: Worth it.
Matt: Thank you guys.
Marisha: Have fun!
Matt: Thanks again for the chat that bought us dinner tonight, it was amazing and delicious. Thank you so much guys, you're amazing every week. So we're going to go to donations.
Zac: Let's get through these.
Matt: Yeah, all right. Thank you guys again for -- Once again, this was the recovery episode of a long, twelve-week battle through the underdark. This was interesting to come back to, I hope you enjoyed it. All right, so first, donations.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone! Welcome to Critical Role. After a two-week hiatus of our usual gaming schedule at Comic Con and then a fun-filled crazy week with half the party playing games and having fun while me and Marisha were in New Zealand, we're happy to be back. We're happy you guys are here as we continue our adventure going forward. We'll have a lot of really cool things to announce here in a moment, but let's go ahead and get that intro video started. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. All right, this is Critical Role: a show where a bunch of voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons. Fun crazy nerds rolling dice and good times. With the adventures of Vox Machina. You're doing all right Travis. Couple quick things: Me and Marisha wanted to say a quick shout out to all of our Critters who came to visit us in Wellington, New Zealand at Armageddon Expo. We had a strong showing of Critters that was really amazing from across the world. And Australia. People could fly over from Australia just to get us to sign their books, so there's a lot of really awesome fan love out there. So you guys are great.
Marisha: Maybe next time all of us could go? You guys should tell them.
Matt: Oh man, a Down Under Kiwi trip for all Critical Role would be a lot of fun. Send your local-- I guess you don't have a congressman, because you're a different country.
Orion: Your "Con-gressman."
Matt: Oh there you go. Orion saved it. Thank you.
Orion: It was there the whole time, Matt. (laughter)
Matt: Disadvantage. All right, so first and foremost, couple things I want to get up here. We had our sub giveaways this evening. For every 50 subs, we give away a signed player's handbook by the cast of Critical Role, a signed photo of the cast. And tonight especially we're also giving away in that package Espionage nail packs, specifically with our fantastic gamer dice on the tips. Espionage Cosmetics were gracious to give these to us, and we will give them to you. Every 50 subs.
Marisha: Awesome. Go follow them on Twitter; I think they're @espionagemakeup. Just look it up. They're awesome.
Matt: Google it. However, we already have a winner, before the show started. That's explodingiggy. So congratulations to explodingiggy. You already got one more to come. The fun and interesting challenge for this evening as we've been made aware, you guys, being the ridiculously amazing people you are. One of you crafted a challenge for yourself. That if we can manage to somehow get to 5,000 subscribers before the end of the show tonight, they will create and send an eight-foot Trinket. Like eight-foot-tall Trinket bear.
Marisha: Yeah which is vague. A little. What's it made out of?
Zac: It's a teddy bear. It's a giant teddy bear.
Laura: And maybe his little paws can be on my shoulder the whole time I play?
Matt: Oh, he would be a perpetual staple of the set. That would be behind you at all times.
Zac: Cool, not difficult at all, guys! Totally not difficult at all!
Marisha: Yes, but we have to get to 5,000 subscribers.
Taliesin: Trojan horse and a suit that they wear. They could sneak themselves onto the stage that way.
Matt: I'll get inside the teddy bear, and I'll act out Trinket during the game. Perfect. That's not going to happen. It might happen. That's if we hit 5000 subscribers, so all your friends you know that watch the show who don't subscribe yet, tell them to. If you know anyone that hasn't seen the show yet, get them on, because a giant eight-foot bear would be pretty much the most ridiculous thing ever.
Marisha: Yeah, I already tweeted #8ftTrinket.
Laura: I saw something subs for bears.
Orion: Nope. Bad idea.
Matt: (laughs) Yeah, subs for bears is a whole section of Craigslist you don't want to go to. Or you do, if that's your thing. All right, so. Happy to be back from Comic Con. We had a great panel and great turnout there. Thank you for those who came and those who watched the panel. If you haven't seen it yet, the panel is available on the Geek and Sundry website. You can watch it. And as we all know, last episode we said goodbye temporarily to our fantastic gnome cleric, Pike. She's off in New York shooting awesome television shows, but she's here in spirit.
Liam: It's going to be great.
Laura: It's going to be a good show.
Matt: Also, as a reminder, our charity that we run here for the show is to 826LA. 826LA is a fantastic charity that promotes and teaches creative writing to younger kids between the ages of 8 and 16, I think it was. Somewhere in that range?
Marisha: K through High School.
Matt: K through High School. Fantastic program, and anything you can do to help is much appreciated and awesome. And, Marisha, if you want to go ahead and take this away. We have a new addition to our set coming next week.
Marisha: It's so awesome! I had the absolute pleasure of joining Felicia on the latest episode of The Flog. Go check it out. It's back. I love that show. She wanted to make a neon sign, and she was like, "Let's do a Critical Role sign." Because she's a fan of our show, which is awesome. She's probably watching right now. Love you, Felicia. So this was it, unfortunately. Yes, are we ready to do the honors? Ready? For Vox Machina! (cheering)
Marisha: So yeah, that's probably going to be up on our set next week, blessing us with its rose-colored glow. Go watch, if you want to see how we made it. We got this awesome tutorial. It's cool. You can go and learn how to make neon signs yourself.
Orion: And it's all science-y too.
Marisha: It's all science-y. It's totally nerdy awesome. Yeah, krypton. But yes. Here we go. All right, say bye-bye to the sign for now.
Matt: It'll be back.
Zac: Hey, Matt. We already have another 50 winner. (laughter)
Zac: It was SonicaMoto.
Matt: SonicaMoto is our new winner, already. Congratulations, SonicaMoto.
Liam: We need less than 300 subs for that bear. I think we can do that. I think that's pretty likely.
Marisha: You get nail wraps.
Matt: You get a bear behind us for the rest of the show.
Marisha: You get a player's handbook signed by us.
Taliesin: Encourage this. Oh no, encourage this. (laughs) I encourage bear.
Orion: (laughing) I do encourage... Nope. Okay. I am a trained comedian. That is not a thing.
Matt: Last but not least, before we get started, we do have one guest in the studio who's been watching for a bit tonight. Our good friend, Jor is over here from quite a distance. We met him at Comic Con.
Travis: Put your head right here.
Matt: A fantastically talented artist. For those of you who have seen my profile picture on Twitter or Facebook, the really amazing artwork of me as a dungeon master, this is the man that did it. Where can they see your work online?
Jore: I have a Facebook--
Marisha: Drop down.
Orion: Drop down.
Jore: There's a Facebook page. You can search J-O-R-E on Facebook, and that's probably me. If you see Matt's picture, then that's me.
Travis: And my Grog raging one with blood covering his face. (growls)
Matt: Go ahead and have a seat.
Marisha: Speaking of amazing artists. We want to do a shout out.
Orion: There's a couple more announcements. This one.
Marisha: This one, yes.
Orion: Our wonderful artists. Kit Buss and...
Marisha: Kit Buss and Wendy Doodles. Wendy Green. They're awesome friends of ours and fans of the show. They do amazing work. They've done a lot of the character work that you've seen, and they're going to be doing a lot more, and we just wanted to really appreciate them and show them some love, so yes. Go follow.
Orion: Our artists. As Laura would say.
Laura: That's good. That's very see-able.
Marisha: Okay. Is it see-able now? I want to make sure. Go follow them. They deserve it.
Matt: They've been really amazing. I know many of you have asked about what's the backstory to Vox Machina? What's that history before the stream started? We're working on something. It may take a little bit, but one or more of those artists may be involved. But when we do have that available to you, it should be really cool, and I hope you'll enjoy it. Anyway.
Orion: Oh, also, since this is fantasy, I'd like to announce that my show went pretty well that's on Mondays, 7-10 on this channel.
Taliesin: You have a show? What kind of show is it?
Orion: Ooh, I'm glad you asked, Taliesin. It is me and Jessica Merizan playing Final Fantasy XIV. We just found each other in the same world. There's a free company we're going to start. You can come on and join if you're already subscribing. We do giveaways for subscribers who are watching and active in the chat during the show for stuff with Square Enix. It's all good times. I'm happy to say that Taliesin, man, Thancred is still in this version of Final Fantasy XIV, so you can check his work out too, and he's awesome. The funny thing is I didn't know your character was like a badass. So I was listening to him and I was like "Oh fuck". Yeah, he's great. So check it out. Every Monday 7-10 on the channel.
Matt: There you go. Also all you League fans out there, I hope you're enjoying your new Bilgewater update. Anyone else have any announcements they want to make?
Laura: Oh we're going to be at Otakon this weekend in Baltimore. Come say hi! We're leaving right after this.
Taliesin: I've got a tiny announcement, which is Ant-Man the movie is really good. If you like Ant-Man the movie, you can hear me as Ant-Man, being not nearly as funny, in the pinball game. I'm not nearly as funny as Paul Rudd.
Orion: Oh pish posh.
Zac: Matt? We've got another giveaway.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: (singing) Eight-foot Trinket, here we come!
Zac: OhGreatLampShade.
Matt: OhGreatLampShade is the winner of our next giveaway.
Liam: OhGreatLampShade, we thank thee for thy mercy.
Matt: Congratulations. Player's Handbook signed, picture signed, and nail wraps. And a step closer to giant eight-foot Trinket.
Travis: Don't do it. No more.
Liam: Are you sad that you will no longer be the tallest member of our group?
Laura: I feel like we're just delaying starting because we're going to have to face that fact that Pike isn't with us as soon as we start.
Travis: And Scanlan's still in the pooper. He's not really.
Marisha: Yeah, where is Scanlan?
Liam: He's shitting on a bed somewhere. It's his thing.
Matt: Is he on his way?
Laura: He's on his way, yeah.
Matt: Well when he arrives... In the meantime--
Travis: Where are you going?
Orion: I'm going to get something to drink.
Laura: He's getting a drink.
Matt: Okay. As Tiberius has an aneurysm and falls to the ground--
Travis: Yes! I go over and provide very vigorous CPR. No mouth to mouth, just that hand part.
Matt: Yeah. All right, make a death save.
Orion: What? Ow! (cheering)
Orion: And I brought Scanlan with me.
Marisha: (laughs) Like a trailing fart.
Travis: (laughing) "Like a trailing fart."
Orion: That couldn't have worked out better.
Sam: Oh really?
Laura: What is he wearing?
Travis: "Asp Hole?" What does it say? "Where you" what?
Sam: It's the Asp Hole.
Liam: Asp. Hole.
Sam: It's just a bar that I like to go to. Down at the Asp Hole.
Liam: And I got shit for talking about bears today.
Matt: No, I'm pretty sure that's somewhere in Emon. (laughter)
Travis: And we'll find it.
Sam: Yeah, we'll find the Asp Hole.
Matt: Yeah, so let's actually start this game, guys. Thank you for being patient with our intro here. We've been gone for two weeks. We have a lot to talk about, so thank you for letting us get that out. So picking up where we left off, the party completed the venture of taking the horn of Orcus to a place of safety and sealing it away, hopefully for eternity, with the help of Lady Kima, to the scalebearers. After heading to the basement of the Platinum Sanctuary in the city of Vasselheim, they've succeeded to do so. Vasselheim, which is a distant city to the far northwest of the continent they're used to. This city is a very devout, religion-based city, and currently considered the oldest bastion of civilization in the known civilized world. After taking a skyship across the ocean to get there, sealing the Horn, you guys also discover upon doing so that the ruins, long-forgotten ruins, of what appears to be an ancient temple to Sarenrae were recently discovered. While Sarenrae does not have a strong following in this city, the few that are trying to raise it ask for Pike's help to stay back and help build it and bring it to its former glory. Hopefully to re-establish a basis of worship in this city, and she decided to help these folks. The party then steps away from the ruins of the tower, sad but understanding of the circumstance.
Liam: Perhaps we could sit on a nearby rooftop and watch Pike work.
Laura: Just for the next eight months?
Travis: I'd be all right with that.
Marisha: That's not creepy at all.
Matt: Critical Role all of a sudden becomes the greatest grass-watching game of all time. As you all stand there, you have to decide your next course of action. You stand in the muddy road, taking in the cold dusk air as the sun slowly sets to the west. Now, this area of the city has a vastly different feel than the Platinum Sanctuary. In the haste to make it to the ruin, you've passed out of the section that seems to be under Bahamut's watch and into a different area. In this area, most of the buildings are reinforced with ruddy iron plates. Plumes of smoke rise up from a handful of heavy smokestacks. You can see over the rooftops in the distance toward the center of this section what looks like a massive dark red statue of a muscular bearded man.
Liam: The beauty of this game is I have no idea what the shit we're going to do right now.
Sam: So we're standing outside the place where we just left Pike?
Matt: Yeah, the ruins of the tower.
Marisha: So we're essentially standing in the middle of a town being like, now what?
Laura: Should we go look at that statue, then?
Taliesin: I want to see if there's an inscription.
Matt: If you'd like to.
Taliesin: Yes, that would be lovely.
Sam: While he's doing that, Scanlan is feeling still terribly sad about leaving Pike. So overcome with emotion that he must step into the ruins one last time, just to see the place where she's going to be for the next several months, years. And before I do so, I drink one of my potions that I bought from what's-his-butt. Gilmore, the glorious Gilmore. Yes.
Matt: All right.
Sam: I don't know how it works, but I'm going to drink it anyway.
Matt: Okay, you drink it.
Sam: Okay, I drink it. I go inside the ruins and look around and touch some of the walls and look at the stonework and everything. I want to see where she's going to be so I know she's safe. Overcome with a little bit of verklempt emotion, I shed a single tear.
Matt: As you quietly take this moment to yourself amongst the ruins, you can hear the clattering of stonework as the small band of Sarenrae worshipers are now being helped by Pike, who's gathered them into a plan as to how to remove and restore portions of the building that are currently visible from the dirt and earth that it's embedded in. Hearing her voice echo through the hallway, it's a very comforting sense. You feel a rumbling in your stomach.
Sam: I feel uncomfortable. It must be the emotion.
Matt: It's probably the emotion.
Sam: I find a side chamber or a little nook. Somewhere where I can have some privacy.
Matt: Okay. You find your way back towards the makeshift wooden plank stairway and there was a small alcove not far from there within the earth wall that looks to be relatively private. There's little to no light, and it does have a view of the current ruin.
Sam: I say a little prayer, and I take a big dump on the floor.
Travis: (laughing) No you do not!
Sam: Well, my stomach was rumbling.
Travis: (laughing) You're in a temple, man!
Laura: Pike's probably going to have to be the one to clean that up!
Sam: Sometimes it just affects me. I have weak nerves. And as I'm squatting, I hum to myself. (singing) How do I say goodbye to what we almost had?
Orion: This is not romantic at all, you know that, right?
Matt: Welcome back, guys.
Marisha: I've missed you guys so much.
Matt: As you finish your business, you step away from the alcove back to the stairway. The contents of the potion seem to have had some effect, as the remnants of what you leave behind have a very soft blue glowing hue to them.
Sam: I left a magic dump.
Travis: Do we need to collect the dump?
Sam: Nope. We should leave the dump.
Laura: Are you going to be able to see through the dump?
Travis: He's covering his face. I think we need the blue shit.
Marisha: Can you cast Detect Magic on the poo?
Sam: It's already magical poo.
Orion: Are we there? We're not there.
Laura: We're not there. It's just Scanlan.
Orion: Okay. So he's just shitting.
Laura: He's just leaving it.
Sam: So I leave and rejoin my fellows, wiping the tear from my eye and the poo from my bottom.
Orion: Well, I love you Ashley. I do.
Marisha: This is what happens when we don't have any direction.
Travis: But what's the purpose of the potion? To make your poo blue?
Sam: I took a potion that will let me see through my poo and check in on Pike from time to time.
Laura: Will she realize you can see her through the poop?
Sam: I certainly hope not.
Laura: Wouldn't that be great if she could just talk to you through the poo?
Liam: Why aren't the priests going to shovel that shit up?
Sam: As long as some of my cellular remains are there, I might be able to see a little bit into the room.
Liam: What's "cellular?"
Sam: (laughs) It's poo.
Liam: Oh, you mean little flakes of poo.
Matt: For the sake of brevity in story progression here, and to dissuade a 30-minute conversation about Scanlan's excrement. After you've rejoined the party, the sun is now set. The cold air is beginning to really sweep in through the streets. The clouds overhead begin to slowly rumble and you can hear distant thunder, and you get the feeling due to the moisture in the air, you're not too far away from a rain.
Laura: Should we bunk for the night before we head out in the morning?
Taliesin: I say we head to the ship.
Travis: Wasn't there a guy with a red beard we were supposed to go see?
Laura: I wanted to wander over to the statue while Scanlan was dumping.
Sam: I feel great right now, by the way.
Taliesin: Finding some relief in the situation.
Orion: Damn it. Just when I was starting to like you, gnome.
Liam: Moving on. Let's go take a look at this statue.
Matt: (chuckling) All right.
Sam: It's magic poo!
Liam: Don't change, Scanlan.
Matt: As you guys make your way through the center of this district--
Laura: I feel like it's dark now.
Matt: Yeah. You get the sense that this area, most of the people that live in this area are more rough-and-tumble than the already-rough people who live in Vasselheim, from what you've encountered. The buildings themselves all seem to be reinforced with iron plates and it looks like there is a very heavy trade in metalwork, and a lot of the construction of anything metallic appears to be coming through or from this portion of the town. As you approach closer to this statue, it's not just a statue. You see it is actually sitting atop what looks to be a large, blocky fortress-like temple. Unlike the Platinum Sanctuary, which is a very beautiful but simple array, this one has a crenellated top to each of these walled structures. You can see braziers blasting flame every 20 or so feet along the top of it. You can see, as you approach the front of this, there are two giant stone doorways with steps that look up to it and what looks to be two gargantuan war horns that spiral along the sides and then open up outward towards the entire city in front of it. I'm going to ask you guys to make a religion check, if you could.
Travis: Oh, I got this.
Orion: Natural 20!
Taliesin: Yeah! Natural 20.
Taliesin: Boom!
Orion: Boom!
Orion: That's so cool.
Travis: Natural four.
Taliesin: Because we know our shit.
Matt: As you guys begin your approach, even in the darkness, you can see the figure, this human-like man. Barrel-chested. Massive muscles. What looks almost like iron bracers around his wrists. He is carved or sculpted from solid iron or plates that have been put together from some sort of iron initial structure. The beard is long and goes to about mid-chest. He carries in one hand this long, thick shortsword and has furs and leathers about his legs and midsection. You recognize this to be a very hefty depiction of the deity Kord.
Laura: Kord?
Sam: Kord?
Travis: Kord?
Travis: I admire his beard.
Matt: It is a beard worth admiring.
Marisha: How might one spell Kord?
Matt: K-O-R-D.
Marisha: Simple. I like that.
Sam: He's a god of some sort?
Matt: He is, indeed.
Taliesin: Tell us of this Kord. Try to find your notes of this Kord.
Laura: He's a dwarven god?
Matt: Not dwarven.
Liam: A man. Human.
Matt: Kord is essentially a deity of warfare, combat, and storms. A god that has been long-worshipped by tribal cultures from long past that enjoyed the essence of battle and challenge and combat.
Liam: Did you say storms, Tiberius? War and combat and storms?
Orion: Storms, yes. Storms and winds.
Matt: And quickly, the motif of this section of the town comes into play. This, you assume, is the portion of the city that is dedicated to the temple of Kord, this being the structure before you.
Marisha: Does it seem to be a central theme across the whole town? This town worships Kord?
Matt: No. You've only really been to two sections. The first one you were brought to was primarily under the worship of Bahamut, the Platinum Dragon.
Marisha: Okay. (giggles)
Taliesin: Getting the giggles out.
Travis: Did you look at it? Did you use your fancy eyes to look at it?
Taliesin: Well, my question is, is this a temple? If it is a temple to Kord, is this a place of battle? Is this somewhere where people go watch battles and fighting?
Matt: From the exterior, and it is a closed-off temple, it looks like a large, blocky, obstinate fortress that is nearly impenetrable from the way it's constructed and reinforced. You don't know what's inside of it.
Liam: There's a big gate or door at the front?
Matt: Two large iron doors about 20 feet tall that are currently shut. It's about five or six steps getting up to it.
Laura: And it's nighttime?
Matt: It is nighttime currently, yes.
Liam: Are there any citizens out right now, or are we alone in the dark?
Matt: As it has gotten to dusk, it's thinned out a little bit, but there are a few individuals walking by, carrying pickaxes over one shoulder and passing by.
Liam: I'd like to walk over to the nearest one and ask.
Sam: To who?
Liam: To a passerby.
Matt: The two gentlemen, one's in his mid-20s. The one that turns to you initially probably looks a little older than that. Late 30s, grizzled. Shaven, but the five-o'clock shadow has definitely kicked in. Longer, tousled hair, dirt on the face. Simple clothing, pickaxe over his shoulder and what looks like a leather belt that carries other tools.
Sam: These are dwarves?
Matt: These are human. "Yes? I heard you calling."
Liam: Excuse me, good sir. My friend over here, the dragonborn. He seems to think that this is some sort of temple or edifice to the god Kord. I just want to know, is he correct?
Matt: "Is this your first time in the Braving Grounds?"
Orion: In Dwarvish, I say--
Sam: They're not dwarves.
Matt: You can still say it, though. (laughter)
Liam: Yes, absolutely! This is our first time. We literally just rolled into Vasselheim. What can you tell us of this? It's an impressive structure.
Matt: The younger gentleman next to him, similarly dressed, begins to speak up. He puts his hand up and goes, "The Braving Grounds is the area of this city that is built around the worship of the great god Kord. His protection and strength he bestows upon those who live for the sake of challenge. To prove oneself better with each passing day, that is the basis of the Braving Grounds."
Laura: So it's like a battleground?
Matt: "It's a community that when called to battle can definitely defend itself. What you see before you--" He looks up at the giant structure. "This is called the Trial Forge. It is the oldest known temple to Kord and has been built and rebuilt for many, many hundreds of years."
Orion: (chuckles) Hence forge, right?
Liam: And does one need to be a priest or cleric of this faith to challenge oneself? Or can anyone--
Travis: Worship?
Matt: "Anyone is able to worship what deity they wish in this town. We have an understanding. If you're looking for a tussle, what you're looking for is the Crucible."
Travis: Yes. What else can you tell us about this Crucible?
Matt: "The Crucible is a fighting pit. I mean, there is a sacred arena within the temple, but that's reserved for very, very special occasions. If you're looking to just get your fight on and punch someone in the face, the Crucible is what you're looking for." He spits off to the side and points a little ways down the roadway.
Marisha: I think Grog wants to go.
Matt: "Beyond that way, you'll see a tavern known as the Bellows' Respite."
Sam: Bellows' Respite.
Matt: "One of the finer inns you'll find in the Braving Grounds proper, but I take it if you walk that direction, you'll see the Crucible before too long."
Laura: Have you ever fought in the Crucible?
Matt: "Me? No. Too busy. Too many people better fighters than me in there. I'll just stick to the mines."
Marisha: Are these battles to the death?
Matt: "Nah. These are battles of honor. Death belongs in a true war. Mind you, there have been some folks unfortunately who may have fallen to a hit on the head too hard, and that's understandable. But the purpose of Kord is not necessarily to smite your foes unless they've given you damn good reason. Other than that, contest of strength is how we live."
Orion: A friendly sparring match is what we're about.
Liam: That's this neighborhood of Vasselheim, not the city as a whole, just in these parts?
Matt: "For the most part. I mean, we have members of our community that are Bastions and guard the whole city, but we tend to keep our own--" (off-screen crash)
Matt: "Pardon my friend. He's clumsy." And the other gentleman picks up his tools and is like, "Sorry."
Travis: Have you been to this Crucible often, and if so, is there a champion or a favorite that you've seen or know of?
Matt: "We have some people come in and out. Probably best to ask around the Crucible, to be honest. I've seen some people take some serious beatings down there. I haven't kept much attention to it. I haven't the money to sling around it."
Laura: The money? Wait, it costs money?
Matt: "What, you think there's going to be fights in a pit and no one's betting on it? Welcome to Vasselheim, my dear."
Travis: We're going to be rich!
Orion: What if there are two people fighting the town does not know?
Matt: "I don't know. Take it up at the Crucible."
Travis: How far is the Crucible from here?
Matt: "Keep walking. You'll see it."
Laura: Keep walking? Thank you, friend.
Matt: "My pleasure. Kord's strength to you." And he keeps on walking.
Travis: Kord's strength.
Sam: Kord's strength to you.
Matt: No, core strength.
Laura: Sit-ups. Crunches.
Travis: Core strength to you. Namaste.
Matt: You guys walk beyond the Trial Forge, back towards the path where you came off to the side on the left and you can see most of the buildings, their internal lighting is very low; you can see most folks either go to bed at this evening or at least keep a very low visual profile from their abodes. However, lights are blazing from the interior of this three-story inn. The Bellows' Respite is definitely a rowdy place. You can hear already the shouts and music streaming from the interior of it. You gather that, while there are a lot of people inside you can see at the windows and openings to the inside of the tavern, there is a large group gathered in the middle of the thoroughfare just outside of it. Looks like a circle of individuals that are all shouting and screaming over each other, big fist-pumps to the air, some folks are angrily throwing their coin purses to the ground.
Travis: Like a kid getting too close to an amusement park, I take off running.
Matt: Grog starts running up, bounding up the way, you can see the actual--
Marisha: Grog? Grog, not too far ahead!
Travis: Okay!
Liam: I don't start running, but I'm following behind him and I take out my Keen Dagger and just start sort of dancing it across my hand as I follow after him.
Matt: David Bowie and the glass orb.
Liam: Yes, exactly.
Orion: Is there a registry or something like that?
Matt: Actually, as you approach you can see there is no registry, there is quite literally a pit in the ground. It's a 15, 20-foot dip. It is a carved-out pit, maybe no more than I'd say 25, 30 feet across. And there is no ladder, there is no step going down, there's just two people in there beating the ever-living crap out of each other and a crowd of people gathering around. You do see what looks to be two very well-dressed gentlemen that are in the process of collecting and paying out, and you approach just as the final hit takes to this gentleman's jaw, this tattooed individual, you can see bloodied in the face, nose broken, teeth knocked out, this poor, poor human fellow gets knocked clean onto the ground. You can see standing over his body this extremely built, aggressive, looks like another human female with her hair pulled back in a very tight ponytail just spits on his body, turns around and wipes the blood from the front of her face. Snaps her fingers, and you can see folks bring a ladder and lean it over the side and she climbs up the ladder as everyone cheers on her way up.
Marisha: Before we get up to the crowd, I transform into Minxie. I'm going Minxie. And I catch up to Grog. Going Minxie.
Travis: Oh, they don't like magic.
Marisha: Did they see me? I'm trying to do it stealthily before it happens.
Matt: You can make a stealth check if you like. You do know through the discussions that it's arcane magic that seems to be the shunned element in this town. As it is a town of worship, divine magic for the most part seems okay.
Marisha: Everyone saw me. It's fine.
Matt: Everyone would've seen you if they weren't currently enraptured by the chaos. Those who did notice probably didn't seem to care much other than a giant tiger now walks up to them.
Travis: Can I grab the nearest person near me, turn whoever's shoulder that is, and go, who is she?
Matt: As you pull the shoulder around, you can see a rather portly human fellow, balding on top with long Benjamin Franklin-looking hair. Very nice robes, turns. "Are you new to this town, then, is it?"
Travis: Yeah, very new.
Matt: "That's the Siren. The Siren."
Orion: I approach and saunter next to Grog.
Travis: The Siren?
Matt: "She's the one you bet on. Trust me on that." As he walks over to, you can see another one of these gentlemen, very well-dressed, hair slicked back. Tall, thin human in very, very fine purple robes, collects some people's money, begins giving out a few things, pulls out a notebook with a little charter he's in the middle of putting notes in.
Laura: Hello. How would we enter a new fighter into this pit?
Matt: "Well, actually, that was the last fighter scheduled for the evening."
Travis: Be a pity not to have one more.
Matt: "You wish to fight?"
Travis: Wish? It's more like an itch. A need.
Matt: He puts his arm out and the crowd steps back a bit and he takes a good, long head-to-toe up-and-down look at you, walks around from side to side inspecting you. He gets a little bit close and reaches out, not even asking, he starts grabbing the side of your arms.
Marisha: I start growling a little bit.
Travis: Oh yeah, watch out.
Matt: "Calm down, kitty, calm down." Steps back. "Well, it's not too late. What caliber of fighter do you consider yourself?"
Travis: Caliber?
Matt: "Who do you want to fight?"
Sam: Who are the options?
Orion: Could he fight anyone?
Travis: This is my friend, Scanlan.
Sam: I'm more of his manager than his friend, actually. Hi, I'm Scanlan.
Matt: "Pleasure."
Sam: Pleasure's all mine. My brute over here, who can he battle, what are his options?
Matt: "This late in the evening--"
Liam: I'll fight him.
Sam: Excuse me?
Liam: I said I'll fight him.
Matt: "I apologize. If you're going to have someone enter the arena worth betting on, they have to go up against one of our proven fighters first. However, once your friend here gets his face beaten in, you're more than welcome to join him in the ring thereafter."
Travis: I haven't laughed so hard in my entire life. Face beaten, he says. Face beaten!
Matt: "You're mighty confident, aren't you?"
Travis: It's my middle-- I only have one name. (laughter)
Travis: If I did.
Sam: It would be that.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Well, first and foremost, all bets begin at 100 gold pieces."
Laura: 100 gold? Is that all?
Matt: "You can increase the bet, if you'd like."
Laura: I'd love to.
Matt: "What would you like to bet?"
Laura: 500 gold on this one right here.
Matt: "Is she the only one betting?"
Sam: She bets for all of us.
Liam: I'll put a thousand down right now that I can beat the big guy.
Sam: You mean Grog?
Liam: Of my own money. Yes.
Laura: You can't fight him yet!
Liam: I can't? Rules are meant to be bent and stretched. Am I right?
Matt: "You're going to put your money down between your friends to fight your friends."
Liam: It's a contentious relationship.
Matt: His eyes have already wandered from your face, he says, "500 gold on the goliath. Do we hear anything else?" A few other individuals step up and start telling him like, "50 gold down." "It's a hundred-gold minimum." "100 gold."
Sam: Who is he fighting?
Travis: We don't know yet.
Sam: We have to bet before we see the meat?
Matt: "Unproven fighters with a grandiose sense of self-ability enjoy the surprise."
Taliesin: So what sort of odds are we talking about, then?
Matt: "For this one, based on your height, reach, strength and arrogance, I'd put you at four-to-one against."
Laura: Four-to-one.
Travis: Okay.
Orion: It's okay, Grog. He doesn't know that you've beaten up a lot of people.
Sam: Don't tell him.
Orion: Oh, right.
Travis: I've got this scar here. How does he think I got it?
Sam: Those are fair odds, we'll take that.
Matt: "All right. 500 gold. Is this all I'm hearing?"
Travis: A hundred of my own gold on me.
Matt: "600 gold."
Taliesin: Hold on.
Sam: I'll bet 50 gold against him. We have to hedge!
Matt: "100 gold is the minimum bet."
Sam: Well then, I can't afford it. I'm sorry. We have to hedge.
Laura: You're going to get it, Grog. You're going to do it. I have faith in you.
Orion: I'll put 500 gold on the goliath.
Laura: Oh my god. We're going to lose all our money on Grog. No we're not.
Matt: "All right. Last bets, last bets!" Everyone starts putting in their cash. A couple folks frenzy over, you see a couple guys--
Liam: I put a thousand on the goliath.
Sam: What?
Liam: 1,000 gold on the goliath.
Laura: Sing a song. Do you use arcane magic or do you use divine magic? Just sing a song, Scanlan.
Matt: "It seems your friends are confident in your ability. Let's hope we can put their money where your mouth is."
Travis: In my mouth?
Sam: It's an expression.
Matt: "All right."
Marisha: I brush against Grog. And I cast Stoneskin on him.
Sam: Will that show?
Marisha: Does that show?
Matt: You cannot cast a spell when you're in beast form.
Liam: Plus, kitty, you did that once and it didn't work out so well.
Orion: As I notice what the cat's doing, I'm standing right next to him, so I do it with my hand instead.
Liam: You got caught with your hand in the cookie jar.
Matt: As you begin casting the spell, immediately the guy says, "You do that one more time and you're all disqualified from ever competing."
Orion: Okay. I'm sorry, I just thought I'd give my friend an advantage.
Taliesin: He'll be fine. Look at him. He'll be fine.
Orion: Yes, I have two eyes.
Matt: At which point, the other individual whispers into the initial bookie's ear. "Yes. Retrieve him, please."
Travis: Him?
Matt: "For this fight, we have a newcomer. A newcomer who is named--"
Travis: Should I have a fancy name?
Sam: Yeah, you should have a fancy fighting name.
Orion: Grog the Destroyer.
Travis: Phillip. (laughter)
Orion: No, that's like the opposite of what I said.
Matt: "Phillip, the newcomer, has decided to hedge his and his friends' savings that he, upon what I can only imagine is his first arrival into Vasselheim, to get his face pummeled by our current standing champion: Kern the Hammer." At this point, the crowd immediately goes quiet and whispering, you can see a few individuals now walking over, ushering this man, looks like he just stepped out of the nearby mines, he's got coal dirt on his face. When I say man, it is a six-foot-six, very visibly half-orc gentleman, built like some sort of thick-ass building you've walked past coming through here. Bald head, big, bristly mustache, and a face that's obviously taken a beating over the years. He walks up nonchalantly, just wearing a simple tattered tunic, leather pants and boots. You can see him like cracking his fingers. He looks over to the side at one of the guys. "They better have pulled me out of work for a good reason. Who am I up against?"
Travis: I envy your facial hair.
Matt: "I envy your currently unbroken face. Currently."
Travis: I'm going to kill him. That's a rule, right? I'm not supposed to kill him?
Laura: You're not supposed to kill him. No killing allowed in this?
Matt: The bookie steps forward. "No killing. Fighting until one falls."
Travis: What happens if they start to cry?
Matt: "Then you keep punching."
Travis: I like it.
Matt: "No weapons. No armor. Fists against fists until one of them falls. Lower the ladder." As they put the ladder down into the arena. You can see the orc gentleman pulls out a small, enclosed, almost like a wineskin, like an iron wineskin, unscrews it and drinks it all down.
Travis: Kern the Shithead does?
Matt: Yeah. Puts it down, throws it to the ground, with a ting-ting-ting.
Laura: Wait, what was in that? Was that wine?
Matt: "It is customary to drink before a fight."
Travis: Can I have my cask of ale, real fast?
Laura: Wait, does anybody have a Potion of Stoneskin or anything good?
Matt: As everyone gathers around, you can now see people are coming back out of the tavern to gather around the outskirts of the Crucible. Grog gets lowered down the ladder.
Sam: Oh, he's already down?
Matt: Well, Grog, what else do you want to do before you prepare?
Travis: What do I want to do to prepare?
Matt: Well, if you haven't gone down yet. The other guy has come down the ladder.
Travis: I took a drink from the cask of ale--
Sam: Wait, I come over to Grog and I just look in his eyes and I say, listen, you've got this, I can't give you anything else, but you've got this, man. And I also very quickly take out my Potion of Fire Giant Strength and I slip it to him before he takes a drink of his ale. I don't know if I hand it to him.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Sam: Okay. (squeaks) Nope.
Matt: What did you roll?
Sam: Oh, that's a six. So eight.
Matt: All right. As you walk towards him and begin looking in his eyes, as you begin to pull out the flask, a hand grasps your wrist. And you glance over and you can see one of the burly human gentlemen that escorted Kern the Hammer in is currently grasping your arm and says, "I'm watching you. One more try and I'll throw you in there. We'll go down ourselves."
Sam: It's for my asthma. I promise.
Matt: Shoves you back away, still clutching it. Looks to you, Grog, up into your eyes. "You going to climb down and fight or you going to be a pussy about it?"
Travis: That's a really good question. I would like to rage. And I jump in the fucking pit.
Matt: You leap over the side, completely avoiding the ladder, both feet hitting the ground with a heavy thud sound. The packed dust kicks up around your feet.
Sam: Come on, Phillip! Kick his ass!
Matt: At which point, the other orc's finished cracking his knuckles, just kind of wipes the spit off the edge of his chin, gives you a look (growls) and you see a bit of foam toss from the side of his mouth.
Liam: Nobody fucks with Phil.
Laura: I can smell you from here, Kern!
Matt: Go ahead and roll initiative.
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20! All righty.
Orion: Oh shit, you got a 20?
Matt: All right. You actually probably would've landed there from the run. First round starts. You're up.
Travis: I would like to cast Intimidating Presence on Fern the Fucknut.
Matt: Kern. But it's better if Grog gets it wrong.
Travis: He never gets it right. Phillip, thank you.
Matt: Phillip. All right, so. Use your action to use Intimidating Presence? All right, so what's the DC on that?
Travis: Saving throw, 13.
Matt: 13. That will unfortunately not succeed. As you glare at him with an angry Phillip glare, your bellow echoing through the bottom of this Crucible, which in itself forms a very interesting acoustic amplifying of your yell, you can see Kern on the other side is looking at you with the same intense, burning rage.
Sam: Wait, that's your whole move?
Matt: And you can move if you like.
Travis: I'll let him come to me.
Matt: Okay. All right. So as you stand there waiting with fists at your side, Kern takes his turn. You can see he begins to circle a little bit around you as he begins to spiral about with an unnerving speed, dashes forward, fists come swinging, one, two. Both strikes coming towards you. That is a 19.
Travis: Misses.
Matt: This is all fisticuffs. That is a 24.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: And as a bonus action, using his rage, a third attack. That is a 21.
Travis: That definitely hits.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: Would you like to use my spiky die?
Sam: Don't do it. You got this, Phillip.
Matt: The first one does eight points of damage. The second one does seven points of damage. As one fist clips you across the chin, the other one goes right into your abdominals. You're still tensing and you feel the impact but you just take the sheer weight of the force and flex and angrily stare him down in return.
Sam: Phillip, do that thing where you move your pecs up and down! (laughter)
Matt: That's going to be a gif. And as you now see Kern prepares for a second bout, it's your turn, Grog. What are you doing?
Travis: I would like to go into a frenzied rage. I would like to start with a giant front-kick forward and then hammer him down.
Matt: All right. Go for the first strike.
Travis: Shit, that misses. Two.
Matt: That's probably going to miss.
Travis: Yep. That's a 19.
Matt: 19 is going to hit.
Travis: And also 19.
Matt: Both hit, yep. So you go to kick with the front kick, and he dodges to the side. However, you still, using your giant haymaker, the inertia clips him across the face. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: That is a 16.
Matt: You're not fighting with your axe. This is with your fists. So rolling 1d4 and then half that.
Sam: Half that?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: You only get half damage of a d4?
Matt: Yep. But you still add your strength modifier.
Liam: So these guys both potentially have like a hundred hit points.
Travis: Six. It was four, and then half of that is two, plus my modifier, which is four, so six.
Matt: Correct, so six damage. All righty.
Travis: And then four.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: This is what I use? For my fists? I got big-ass fists! I got tattoos and shit on them. I never shower, they fucking stink!
Taliesin: You could do more damage if you hit him with the die, because it's sharp, so you'd actually get more damage with the d4.
Matt: All right. So your modifier is plus-- it's plus three for the modifier?
Travis: No, my modifier's plus four.
Matt: Okay, and then what did you roll on that?
Travis: Two. Minus two.
Matt: Two, then five total.
Travis: Oh, five, yeah.
Matt: There you go. All righty, cool. So you hit him across the face and you hit him to the other side. He comes back, aligns his chin, and you can see he's now stooping in for some sort of an uppercut as he slips to the side a little bit with a sidestep. That will be a 25. A 20. And a one. So what's your AC?
Travis: 20.
Matt: All right, so both the first two hit. As he comes low for a full-on uppercut, hitting you for, that would be six points of damage (whack) under the chin. As you're currently reeling from the impact, he crouches down and is going to go for a knee to the middle of your groin. That is another six points of damage (whack) right in the Phillip junk. You instinctively give out a (grunts) from the impact. After that point, he comes up and it looks like he tries to go for some sort of a pile-drive grapple, and you instinctively kick off of him and his third attack is completely wasted. It's now your go.
Travis: No one fucks with Phillip Jr. I would like to bull rush and try and tackle him, and if it succeeds, I'd like to headbutt him on the ground.
Matt: Okay, okay. It's an action to do that, so you can use your bonus action to attempt--
Travis: And I would only get two attacks, right?
Matt: You only get one with this, technically. It's an action to grapple.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: Do it.
Travis: All right.
Matt: So go ahead and roll an athletics check.
Travis: No, that's even better. 22.
Matt: 22. Yeah, you slam into him, knock him to the ground, and you're now on top of him. He's currently considered grappled, and you can go ahead and attempt your headbutt.
Travis: Say hi! (boosh) That's a lot. 24.
Matt: 24? Yeah, definitely. So go ahead and roll damage on the same 1d4.
Travis: 1d4? It's my head!
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Your head is so puny.
Travis: It's got tattoos on it. One and a half. Oh. One and a half plus my strength, right?
Matt: So if it's three or four it's considered two. So six? All right. So as you tackle him to the ground and he's trying to pull you off, you reach up, (wham) just slam your forehead directly into the center of his face. As you pull back you can already see the blood streak off the front of your head as his nose is smushed even further into his gnarled facade. As you pull back, instead of pain, he's laughing. (laughs) As it comes to his turn, he's not attempting to break grapple. He's going to reach up and grab you and attempt to headbutt you in return.
Travis: I like it.
Matt: That's going to be a 21. A 23. And a 19. All right, that's a six, seven damage. So total of 13 damage. As he reaches up and slams you, slams you again. And as you start backing up, he goes to slam you a third time, and you catch his head in the middle of your mitt, and he's now face-to-face with you, just like (snarls). You guys are both snarling at each other like two rabid beasts. It's your go.
Travis: I would like to keep his head right where I have it and take my elbow and drive it down into the bridge of his nose. So that's 25?
Matt: 25 hits.
Travis: 22?
Matt: Hits.
Travis: And 17.
Matt: 17 does miss. All right. So go ahead and roll damage for the next two strikes.
Travis: With this thing again? Six.
Matt: Six, all righty.
Travis: It's hard to get above a six. And six.
Matt: Six, nice. So as you hold him down, his face, (wham). Head goes, cracks against the ground of the Crucible. As he starts picking his head up again, you drill back again, (wham) hit him a second time. This time, you can see now. His nose was already busted before. Now it's nearly concave. It's like he didn't have a nose before and there's just a bloody void where it once was. He's still smiling in a weird, twisted way. He seems to be enjoying this almost as much as you. You go down for the third one, and this time he reaches up and grabs your elbow. He's going to take his turn to attempt to break your grapple as his action. Go ahead and roll either an athletics or an acrobatics check.
Travis: 12.
Matt: 12? All right. He kicks you up back onto your feet, and as he does, he kip-ups onto his feet, as well. Looks at you with a smile, wipes the snot and blood from the front of his face, licks it off his hand, and with that same hand he rears back, almost like he's winding up for a punch, and then just kicks you right in the center of your stomach.
Travis: I like the feint, I like the feint.
Matt: That's 22. Yeah, that'll hit. That is eight points of damage.
Orion: He's fucking strong.
Laura: You suck, Korn!
Matt: That ends his turn now, you're up, Grog. You're both now standing face-to-face again, you're reeling from the kick to the breadbasket.
Travis: You hit me with the knuckle you fucking licked. So I'd like to jump forward and throw my knee forward and at the last minute pull it back and throw my fist in a Superman punch.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll.
Travis: Yes, fuck you, 19.
Matt: 19 just barely hits.
Travis: And I'll follow it over with a left-right. (boom, boom)
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: Are you still raging?
Travis: 21. Oh yeah, frenzied, so I get three. And 22.
Matt: All hit.
Travis: Outstanding. Watch me roll a six.
Sam: (whispers) Should we do something?
Liam: Have an ale. And collect the money.
Sam: I feel like we should do something.
Travis: 16, total.
Matt: Nice. (whack, whack) You first jumped, hit him in the face. As he stumbles backward, use the inertia to slam him again with the same fist in the face and then turn around with a full-on haymaker to the side of the temple. (whack) As you can see, there's a spray of blood and spittle across the, you guys are starting to push towards the back wall of the Crucible, and he actually staggers back a little bit towards the wall from the impact. (cackles) And he charges towards you, putting his head right towards the stomach that he kicked before, going for that same soft spot he's opened for himself. That's going to be a 20. Yeah, that hits. 21. And 21. Comes in, slams you into the middle of your abdomen for seven damage.
Sam: Should I sing?
Matt: Eight damage. And then an additional seven. So that'd be 15, 22 points of damage. As he slams his head into your midsection, picks you up over his head, slams you onto the ground, and as you're on the ground, he runs up and soccer-ball kicks you in the side of your ribs, just (whack). You hear a crack as the impact hits and you can feel that surging, shooting, burning pain begin to fill the side of your torso. It's your go.
Travis: What else do I have? What can I do?
Laura: You can throw some dirt in his face!
Sam: From the stands, I turn to a portly gentleman next to me and I say, sir, do you see what that fucking little elf said about your mother? He called her a name I can't even repeat. I'm so sorry.
Matt: Go ahead and make a deception check.
Laura: Was he pointing at you?
Sam: Yes.
Laura: Oh god.
Sam: 18.
Matt: He looks down at you and looks over at the elf and he says, "I'll deal with him after the fight. I've got too much money on this right now."
Liam: What an asp-hole.
Travis: I roll up off of my side and I start to go, oh, I don't know, it might be too much. And I grab a handful of dirt and I throw it up into his face.
Matt: All right. Riki-oh style. I like it. All right. So. As you go ahead, go ahead and just roll a basic attack.
Travis: Fuck. Thank you, god. 26.
Matt: 26. Make a dexterity save on his end-- no, that won't work. So you throw the dirt up. As he's rushing towards you to follow up on the attack, the dirt goes streaming into his eyes and for a second he stumbles and starts trying to wipe his face. As he does, he has the blood on his hands that's also getting in his eyes, the blood's starting to cake up a bit, and he's just reaching out in the area. So that's your first attack.
Travis: Because I feel like we have a kinship, I take my foot and I throw it right up into his grundle, just soccer-kick the shit out of his nuts. (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and roll an attack. You have advantage on this currently, because he can't see it coming.
Travis: That's even better! 25.
Matt: 25. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Oh no, I only have two, right? Ten.
Laura: How was that ten, baby? That was 11. The first one was a five.
Travis: Halved. Six.
Laura: That's 11.
Travis: 11.
Matt: 11.
Sam: Baby!
Matt: If you're going to do grundle damage. So as he's reeling and tries to reach out, swiping a back-fist into open air, you rush up and (whack) hit him with sheer force that you hear a unanimous (groans) in the crowd all around echo down. His knees immediately bend in towards each other, and you can see the sound escape instinctively from him, it's like, (wheezes). As you reel for your second strike, which is going to be? What's the second one you do?
Travis: Well, did he drop to his knees?
Matt: No, he's still standing, but barely.
Travis: Oh, really? Yeah, same place.
Matt: You pull back and (whack) a second time in the same spot, this sending him onto the ground from behind. He is currently prone. Okay, that's rough.
Travis: Literally trying to see him cough a testicle. (laughter)
Matt: Well, regardless of what happens, there's going to be a search. (laughter)
Matt: You're going to need a scouting party to find where one of them went. So at the top of his turn, gets up and wipes dirt crust from his eyes, reeling from the impact. Uses half his movement to get up and staggers toward you as you're just welcoming it. Looks up at you for a second and says, "You shouldn't have done that, tall guy." At which point, he goes and lunges for your midsection a second time. Misses with that strike, as you dodge out of the way he spins around and attempts to back-kick you to the torso. That will hit. A 26. And that one is going to-- That's going to be six points of damage to you from the back-kick, and as his foot comes down, he's still reaching for his groin from the sheer pain, he just rushes forward and attempts to bite into your shoulder. That's going to be a 20.
Travis: He rolled a 20?
Matt: Not a natural 20. Just a total of 20. He's rolled a lot of 20s. That's going to be seven damage as he sinks his teeth into the side of your shoulder and neck area. And tears a chunk of your flesh out of the sides of his mouth, now, in the muscle. So you reel back in pain and you're both clutched in this gladiatorial grip. It's your go.
Travis: Oh, amazing. Since we're clutched in that grip, I'll grab him back and I'm going to try and bite his nose off.
Sam: Wait, doesn't he have no nose?
Travis: Oh, he's missing a hollow, right?
Matt: It's mashed in.
Travis: How about I just aim for this area and if I catch lip I'll take it as a victory.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll.
Travis: Yes! Okay, 21.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 20. And 24.
Matt: All hit. So as you reach forward, you use the yell of pain to turn it into an attack, reach forward and bite into the front of his face. You don't get any nose, but you do catch the top of his lip. As you pull back with a snapping sound, part of his upper lip just comes off in your mouth. How much damage does that do?
Marisha: It's a souvenir.
Travis: The first one is six.
Matt: Six damage. All right. What's your follow-up attack?
Travis: Would you say that he reaches back for his face like that in pain?
Matt: Oh yeah, he rears up with his hand right there and is like, (yelps).
Travis: Fantastic. I'd like to just drive my fist into his throat as his head's arched back.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll damage on that.
Travis: Yes! Five.
Matt: Five, all right.
Sam: You know what I love about these fights? They're beautiful. The beauty of the human body.
Matt: The blood's pouring down the front of his face and his throat. You clip him right in the center of his throat. You hear the coughing sound as he, with his other hand, reaches up and grabs his throat. You can now see his front teeth visible through the lip that's no longer there. And what's your third strike?
Travis: Would you say that he bends forward, then, because he's grabbing his throat like that?
Matt: He's tough. He's bending forward, but he's not completely incapacitated. He's in pain.
Travis: Right, I would say I go up next to him and invoke a fabled hero that I heard about in the woods named Macho Man Randy Savage, and I double-tap my elbow and drive it down on top of his head.
Matt: (laughs) All right. Go ahead and roll damage on this one.
Travis: Thank you. Six.
Matt: Six. So as you leap up, using the goliath weight coming down, you double-tap the elbow and you bring it down on top of his head. He, from the sheer force of it (wham) slams down face-first into the dirt, just like that. Onto the ground. As he's getting up, he's looking kind of rough.
Liam: I believe that's pronounced Ma-choman Rand'Savage.
Matt: There you are. A gracious warrior of the woods. While on the ground, he reaches forward and attempts to sweep your legs out from under you. Go ahead and make-- this would be an acrobatics-- no, we'll make this a dexterity saving throw. Why not?
Travis: Ten.
Matt: Ten. (whoosh) Pulls your legs out from under you, slams you onto your back. As he leaps up on top of you immediately and with both of his fists in the air slams them down towards your face. That's going to be a 22.
Travis: What?
Matt: 22 to hit. You take six points of damage.
Travis: Oh, good. (laughs) I was thinking 22 points of damage!
Matt: And a 23 to hit, it's going to be an additional eight points of damage. Just once down on your face, and again with a second slam, right down onto the front of the face again. You can taste all the irony blood and liquid pouring through your sinuses down into the back of your throat as you're currently on the ground with him on top of you. You're both looking pretty rough. Where are you at, hit point-wise?
Travis: I say, tastes like home. And I spit in his face and reach up and thunderclap both of his ears.
Matt: (laughs) All right, go ahead and roll for attack.
Travis: 24.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17 does not hit.
Travis: 22.
Matt: 22 does hit. So you reach up. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Oh yeah, right.
Matt: (whack) Thunderclap to the side of both his ears.
Travis: Six.
Matt: Six points of damage. As he rears back and instinctively his hands go up and try and grab at your wrists, you pull the wrists back, and he's holding you from that point. You attempt to go for another strike, but he just redirects it with his own arms. You manage to pull out of the grip with a third strike. What are you doing for that one?
Travis: He pulled away from my wrists, and I'll give him a little of the same. Put my fists together and just swing straight down into his solar plexus since he's sitting on top of me.
Matt: Roll damage.
Travis: That's a five.
Matt: Five. (wham) You hit and you hear the wind out of him from the impact, (wheezes) and he's trying to get the wind back.
Travis: I can't hear you. What?
Matt: He pushes off of your chest to stand up for a second and (gasps) gets one big inhale of air, and as he does, he reaches up his leg and then tries to curb-stomp kick you right in the stomach while you're still on the ground. That will be 18.
Travis: Misses!
Matt: All right. A 19.
Travis: Misses!
Matt: And that will be a 24.
Travis: You son of a bitch!
Matt: All right. So he goes to kick you once, and you dodge out of the way. Kick a second time. This time, you catch the foot and hold it in place. He then lifts up with his other foot to a point where now you're holding him in the air. As he puts all of his weight in the air, he comes down and slams his elbow right into the center of your chest, in the way you did to his head earlier. That's going to be for a total of eight points of damage.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: I take the flagon of ale that I've been drinking all this time. I slam it down on the ground and push my sister out of the way and yell at the top of my lungs, Grog! Your father was an undead piece of shit and your cousin's going to make you his bitch!
Taliesin: There's not enough popcorn in the world for this.
Laura: I know.
Travis: (growls) I would like to reach forward with both of my thumbs and shove them into his fucking eye sockets.
Matt: Roll an attack.
Travis: Fuck!
Laura: Oh, no. You distracted him.
Travis: 12. That's better. 22.
Matt: Okay, so as you reach up to try to get his eyes, he grasps your hands and instead begins pulling back on the wrists. You can feel the tension of the bone beginning to bend from the sheer strength and force of it. As you pull back your arms, you attempt to headbutt him again and he dodges his head out of the way, and he knows he has you at an advantageous position. What do you want the third attack to be?
Travis: He's still on top of me, isn't he?
Matt: Yeah. Where are you at hit point-wise, by the way?
Travis: 18.
Matt: He's looking pretty rough, too. So what do you want the third attack to be?
Travis: Would you say he's on my chest?
Matt: He's currently on your chest and waist area right now, like (grunts) holding you down.
Travis: I was going to grapple him, but if he's on my chest, I'll use my thighs to shove him up towards the upper part of my body and I'll drive down my elbow at the same time. Into that whole bloody target area.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. As you shift upward, you bring your elbow forward. Roll for attack.
Sam: No, he rolled three already.
Matt: Oh, that's right.
Travis: I got at least a six.
Matt: So six damage? Okay, as you position him up, (whack) the elbow hits, and you can feel it sink in. What bones are there are mostly splintered and broken, and you get a good inch into his face with your elbow. As you pull back, he's looking really rough, and one of his eyes is beginning to swell entirely shut.
Travis: We look like a Rocky movie right now.
Matt: Yeah. This is a full-on, drag-out fight.
Travis: I must break you!
Matt: He angrily looks down at you, (snarls) and he reaches both of his hands up again in a giant hammer fashion. That's going to be a 17?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: A 20.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And a 15.
Travis: Misses!
Matt: So he brings it down. (wham) As it hits, you manage to take the brunt of it in the shoulder. The second hit comes down and slams you for eight points of damage. (wham) This one, you can feel the sternum crack. As he brings up his fists a third time, attempting to end this, you use the leverage you had when you pushed him up to actually spring your entire body upward and force him off you. He manages to get to his feet and you just get up and you both are bleeding from all over your faces with giant bruises, and both of you are barely holding yourselves up, breathing heavily. It's your go.
Travis: I'm going to rush at him, spit on my knuckles, swing back, and at the last second, take my right foot and drive it right through his kneecap.
Matt: Roll for attack.
Travis: Fuck you! Yes! 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: 22.
Matt: 22.
Travis: 19?
Matt: 19 just barely hits. (cheering)
Matt: All right, so as you run forward, bring the leg up, (whack) you hit the side of the knee. Roll damage.
Sam: Come on, roll good.
Travis: Five. Six. Six.
Matt: All right, and what are the attacks you do?
Travis: I want to drive my foot through his kneecap.
Matt: It snaps. He's still standing on the other leg, but the knee is cracked behind.
Travis: Oh, that's amazing. I'll just put my foot through his other knee.
Matt: As you jump off the other one, (whack) it catches the knee. It doesn't snap, but you can see there is a bend to it, and then he falls to the ground, on both of his busted knees now, looking up at you. And with the third strike, what are you going to do?
Travis: I would like to grab his head, since he's probably kneeling on the ground at this point, right? And say, there's only room for one to rage in this pit. And I take it, and I just smash into the top of his jaw, hopefully dislocating the bloody, lipless face that I see.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Wait, is he an orc?
Matt: He's a half-orc.
Travis: As a half-orc, does he got those big teeth?
Matt: There are little tusks there, yeah.
Travis: I'll grab onto those.
Matt: They're small to pull. You slam down on his face. (crunch) You can see the jaw crack open. The tongue instinctively moves around a little, but the jaw is definitely broken from the impact.
Sam: It's like a dance! It's like a beautiful dance.
Matt: You can see, that blow should have taken him out, because there was nothing left.
Travis: He's like the Black Knight in Monty Python! He's got no knees!
Matt: His body goes limp for a brief second. You can see the half-orc rage kicks in. That half-orc's blood. You can see him now rally up for one final round of vengeance against you, Grog. Reaches up and grabs you by the throat and brings you up to slam into his head. This is going to be a 21. A 17.
Sam: Miss.
Matt: And a 22. So grabs you, slams into your head with the first strike. That is going to be six points of damage. (boom) Into the face. You can feel like the shock, the white light in your eyes as the impact smashes into you. He goes to do it a second time. This time you instinctively reach down with your hands and push his face away. You can feel the fading just from the sheer impact as he pushes you up onto your feet again and you step back. And he takes a moment to look at you with his missing lip, his bashed-in nose, eye swollen shut, both knees messed up. (pants) "Respect." And then he runs forward and with one heaping haymaker just takes you in the face with a cracking sound for six points of damage. (groaning)
Matt: With a resounding crack Grog's head spins, his body turning. He stumbles a couple of steps, falls to one knee, face-down in the dirt, unconscious. The whole crowd raises and cheers, (cheering) as the mostly broken half-orc raises one of its fists to the air, walks around, looks over to your body, reaches into his pocket and flicks a gold coin onto your back. Walks over to the ladder and begins very painfully making his way up to the edge of the Crucible.
Laura: Yeah, he's only using his arms because he's got no knees! Douche.
Matt: Getting up to the top, the crowd cheers. You can now see one of the bookies reveals a holy symbol, one that you recognize as the symbol of Kord, and he goes down and immediately begins administering, healing to our recently unconscious Grog. You can see the other bookie, who is dressed similarly in the purplish robes you saw before, also begins to heal our good fighting half-orc friend as he lumps over and takes his sack of coins from him. The clerics of Kord are the ones actually running this, it looks like. You come to in the pit, Grog, beaten, wearied, and fatigued because of your frenzied rage. However, you have been defeated in the Crucible.
Laura: That was painful.
Matt: That was so close.
Sam: I go down and nurse him, nurse his head, hold him, and just tell him, Grog, you won! You did it, buddy!
Matt: Make a deception roll.
Sam: 16.
Matt: I would say given the circumstances, it's nice that he's trying, but it's been a while since you've been bested in one-on-one combat, and a part of you is deeply hurt by it. But at the same time, there is that burning fire, that need to come back and vengefully tear him down from his precipice when you're ready.
Travis: I say nothing.
Orion: It's okay, buddy. This isn't the first time you've been knocked unconscious.
Laura: It's too bad Pike didn't cast Death Ward on him before she left, though. That would've been great.
Marisha: I go up and rub on him and (meows).
Matt: As you're being tended to by your party, the same bookie that brought you in comes over and taps you on the shoulder and says, "Not going to lie, no one has taken a beating from the Hammer like that and brought him so close. I don't think he's going to be able to take another round with you for at least a few days. But you're welcome to fight in my ring any time you wish."
Laura: We'll need to earn our money back.
Matt: "There is that, yes."
Orion: Or you could just give it to us.
Travis: I walk away.
Laura: Is there a whorehouse here in Vasselheim?
Orion: You're asking this question?
Matt: A curious laugh comes across the bookie's face and he says, "The third floor of the Bellows'--" What did I call it, again?
Sam: The Bellows' Respite.
Matt: The Bellows' Respite. Sorry, I was in the moment. "The third floor of the Bellows' Respite does itself run as a brothel, if that's what you're inquiring."
Laura: That is what I was inquiring.
Taliesin: Come on, Grog, we'll get you ice cream.
Laura: We'll get you ice cream, Grog, and a whore. How's that sound?
Liam: Coldstone?
Orion: Grog, you can eat the ice cream from the whore.
Laura: Tiberius, really?
Orion: I'm trying to be creative here. Make him feel good. Fireworks. Prestidigitation.
Matt: All right. Grog, as you make your way into the tavern, there is, though in your solemn state you can see a number of the patrons who were watching from the inside who were part of the crowd all give a round of applause to you as you enter. The barkeep who turns to you, a human fellow who's missing one eye, has a tufted, spotty beard and happily extends a large tankard of ale and says, "On the house for you, friend! You fought well tonight."
Travis: I like your beard.
Liam: I take five of my remaining gold and slide it over to that bartender and say, just keep it coming. All night, please. Thanks.
Matt: "I'll deliver it to the room. By the way, what room are you staying in?"
Sam: Do we have a room?
Laura: We would love one of those.
Liam: The third floor, I believe.
Laura: For some of us, not all of us.
Sam: I don't think he's going to want to... partake tonight.
Liam: Might have problems.
Sam: Aw, he's chugging. He's sadness-chugging.
Matt: "The rest of you, how many rooms you taking? Three amongst you?"
Sam: Three.
Matt: "Three rooms for the night."
Sam: Plus a stable for our bear.
Laura: No. Our bear will stay in the room with us girls.
Travis: It looked like rain, right? I'll be out there with the pigs.
Laura: No, Grog.
Sam: No, it's okay, he needs to stew in this for a while.
Matt: "Your room's on the house, friend. The rest of you, that'll be six gold for the evening."
Orion: I'll stay in your room, Grog.
Sam: I don't think he wants company tonight.
Orion: No, he can sleep with the pigs. I'll stay in the free room.
Matt: So that's six gold for them. All right, so mark off your losses for the money you put in for the pot.
Travis: Where do I mark off my loss of pride?
Matt: That would be under additional notes.
Sam: I almost won.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Laura: Almost.
Travis: What did he have, that orc piece of shit, he had what that made him come back?
Matt: It's a half-orc racial ability that the first time they're dropped to zero hit points, they can instead choose to be at one hit point. They can only do it once per day.
Travis: He had one left?!
Matt: You brought him to negative five on that final hit, but that half-orc racial ability...
Travis: That's even worse!
Liam: Grog, if it's any consolation--
Travis: What's that mean?
Taliesin: It's a grouping of stars in the sky.
Liam: As I had no idea that weapons weren't allowed in there, if you and I had fought, you would've beaten me to a bloody paste.
Travis: Oh, you weren't serious, were you? I thought you were being funny. (laughter)
Travis: Oh.
Sam: There's a lot of injured pride tonight.
Marisha: Guys, we've had a really emotional day. Can we just sleep?
Orion: I found it to be very entertaining.
Sam: Hey, does anyone want to come to my room and look through my shit to see how Pike's doing?
Laura: Okay, yeah!
Orion: Let's look through your shit. Scanlan.
Liam: Pike would have been proud of you, Grog.
Travis: Thank you. And if there had been weapons I'd be in deep shit. I'll be at the bar.
Laura: Oh, Grog, come on.
Sam: That's not even chicken, that's just a piece of wood. (laughter)
Matt: And yet it doesn't stop him as he, bite by bite, makes his way through the piece of driftwood he found by the bar.
Liam: I slap down another five gold to the bartender and say, that's for that barstool.
Matt: "Thank you." Which, the barstools, by the way, have a thick, crusty wool on them, so there's a unique flavor to the piece you've chewed through.
Travis: The frying on this chicken is exquisite.
Matt: As you all take your evening of rest in your respective groups, Grog, eating and drinking away your worries until eventually you are unable to make conversation, you sloppily make your way to the third floor to a room in the brothel that has been prepared and awaiting for you, paid for by the Bellows' Respite, and you find yourself sloppily disappointing a woman until you pass out in your own sorrow. (laughter)
Matt: And with that, we're going to take a quick break, but we'll be back here in about ten minutes, guys, right after Overlord has a few.
Travis: Fuck!
Laura: He's so upset. He's really upset.
Marisha: I've never seen him this upset.
Orion: Yeah, isn't it weird when other people get upset?
Zac: He's definitely not a challenge for Overlord status, that's for sure. Guys, so in case you're wondering what all of this 5k hype is that you keep seeing, if you're watching from home and you tuned in after we started. Megiyama in the chatroom has challenged you guys, the audience, if we get up to 5,000 subscribers tonight, he will buy a very large, and by very large I mean eight feet tall. It is massive. He sent me a picture; it is massive, I don't know where we will put it. We'll figure it out somehow. He will buy that for us and ship it to us, it's a very, very generous thing to help get us to 5,000 subscribers, and I was told from some people in the chat that I should also contribute in some way, shape, or form, so I have agreed to dress up as Pengulord tomorrow all day if we reach this goal. And for those who don't know, there was a very large war this morning in team No Stream, the chatroom, while we were offline. Someone thought it would be funny to put my face on a penguin. I did not think it was funny, and I timed out and banned every single person that referenced it, and exalted all of my power as Overlord, so it pains me to agree to do this, very much so, because it completely diminishes everything I've strived so hard for in world domination. Penguins are the least-threatening animals on the planet, and I despise them.
Matt: Wow, that is an intensity. Pengulord, guys.
Zac: Good for you guys.
Matt: Pengulord, I like the sound of that.
Marisha: They like to snuggle.
Zac: Well, good for them. No.
Matt: We could fit Pengulord on a license plate, right?
Zac: No. Too many letters.
Taliesin: If we get you in this outfit, will you waddle? That's really the question.
Zac: I said 5,000 subs, not my dignity and everything. I will put on the damn outfit at 5,000. That's all I have to offer. I'm already still working on a damn music video, so all I have left to offer is my dignity and every ounce of pride I have in anything.
Matt: So if we somehow get to 5,000 subscribers, we get an eight-foot Trinket and Pengulord gets to rule the stream tomorrow. We'll be back in about five, ten minutes, guys, please stick around, we have more interesting things to see.
Marisha: Oh wait, before we log off, we have this ready to go. Follow our amazing artists. Also, follow Espionage Cosmetics because they're amazing supporters of the show. Tweet at them and be like, thank you so much for supporting Critical Role. Because they're awesome. Okay. [dramatic music]
Travis: Right, listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (chuckle) (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and (chuckle) shiny things! Also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this-- well, this terrified little thing. And his disobedience cost him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die, exiled from his herd. It was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for lady favors. Also ale!
Marisha: A first impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. (chuckle) Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder) Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally! (soft chuckle) Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader to be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself, not knowing when, or if, she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays on repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attentions to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gunshot)
Ashley: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream: a dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal though divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were the best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time, Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. (roar, crunch) After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Sam: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter and joined Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he learned the ways of the world and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down, Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood, unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia. From a politically respected family, at the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months, I would frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later, I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to things sometimes. I've also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite friendly for a dragonborn!
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Syngorn. But their cool reception among the elves--
Matt: Welcome back, guys. All right, so we had a little break here. Remember to follow our awesome artists on the Twitter. So, let's go ahead and get back to the game so we can-- we have a lot to do tonight. All right. As morning comes to, the rest of you wake up, the first thought, of course, being the heartache for your friend Grog, who is not in any of the rooms.
Laura: The heartache for our lost money.
Matt: Yeah, more the money probably for Vex-- but as you wake up, Grog is nowhere to be found in your rooms, of course. He wandered off to presumably the third floor.
Taliesin: Is that a euphemism?
Matt: It can be.
Marisha: I'm still in Minxie form. I slept in Minxie form. I'm going to go look for him, see if I can find him in any of the rooms on the third floor.
Matt: Okay. A giant white saber-toothed tiger wandering the interior does set off a few minds. I mean, an armored bear being escorted is one thing, but a lone saber-toothed tiger? As soon as you make your way through the hallway, you can see one of the patrons comes out of the room and goes, (startled sound) and goes and pulls his blade out, like, "Help! Help, there's a tiger! There's a tiger in the inn!"
Marisha: Why does this always happen to me?
Liam: Hearing yelling, I run up the stairs and say, hey, has anyone seen a-- oh, there you are. Come on, Snibbles, come on. We've got to go back downstairs.
Matt: "Hey, keep that thing on a leash, sir."
Liam: I'm really sorry.
Matt: "Liable to kill someone!"
Liam: Chews through her rope all the time. Come on, Snibbles.
Marisha: I roll over on my back, and I'm like those cats you see on YouTube who hate being on leashes. Just dragging.
Liam: I start going, on the tummy.
Matt: Goes back in his room and closes the door.
Laura: I'm pretty sure you just groped her.
Matt: At about this time, you hear a heavy footfall. A second heavy footfall. A third heavy footfall. And from around the corner of the staircase, descending from the third floor, you see a very hungover and expressionless Grog squinting and making his way down.
Liam: Morning, big guy. Have fun last night?
Marisha: God. You're not going to puke, are you?
Matt: You hear (meowing).
Travis: I never puke.
Laura: Do you need some breakfast or ale?
Travis: What, food? I think I'm good.
Laura: All right.
Liam: I think you need an ale.
Laura: Little hair of the dog? Yeah?
Travis: Now that sounds like a plan.
Laura: All right.
Matt: You guys head down. The rest of you manage to eventually wake and make your way down to the tavern, where Grog is already in the process of consuming his liquid breakfast.
Orion: Hold on, I haven't come out of the room yet, right?
Matt: Not until you want to.
Orion: So I do, I see Grog going there, drinking his thing, I use my Mage Hand and I whack the ale out of his hand.
Matt: Your tankard goes flying out of your hand, on the ground, it spills across the front--
Orion: I make my way down to the thing and I tell the bartender, give this warrior water. This might be your problem, Grog. You lost for a reason, and you're a warrior.
Liam: Yes, but he's named after beer. (laughter)
Orion: Yes, I know that, Vax. I'm just saying.
Taliesin: And you are what you eat.
Orion: I cast Invisibility.
Matt: Okay. Tiberius vanishes. The barkeep hands over a big mug of clear water and sets it in front of Grog.
Laura: Oh, this is the very special beer.
Matt: "It's the water that was requested by your friend. Who disappeared."
Travis: Water?
Laura: It'll get you super drunk.
Liam: Can you feel it? You can feel it, right? You can totally feel it.
Travis: It's pretty smooth. (laughter)
Travis: Keep it coming.
Matt: Meals are ordered, you guys are fed as per your purchase of the evening's inn stay. Your meal's still covered by the tavern. Eventually, you find yourselves full and about, I'll say roughly ten, 11 in the morning it would be.
Marisha: I'm no longer Minxie to eat breakfast with my friends.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hi, good to see you, Keyleth.
Liam: Are you a dwarf again?
Marisha: No. I should to talk to more dwarves before I try to... yeah.
Taliesin: That was a little racist.
Marisha: It was a little racist.
Sam: Remind me, what was on our plate? What's on our plate?
Laura: Well, we have multiple things we can be doing. We can go meet Keyleth's druid family in the mountains, right? Fire, brimstone, stuff like that. We have a lot of money waiting for us.
Travis: I think we have to go back on the airship to go get it.
Laura: In Kraghammer, yes, but there is 25,000 gold waiting for us, so that's always an option.
Travis: The Braving Grounds, we could see if they need any-- since we-- I lost us a lot of (tearing up) money.
Laura: Here, Grog. Have some clear beer.
Travis: Some more? Okay. We can see if they need anyone for hire, go and have a... (tearing up again) being strong.
Liam: I would feel it very hard to leave Pike behind in the city. Are we really going to leave and go to Kraghammer?
Marisha: Well, we don't have to. I don't want to go yet. We traveled several days here. While we're in this side of the country, I should probably go, you know. Do the things I was set out to do.
Travis: Plus we have the poo cell phone.
Laura: Good job, Scanlan.
Sam: It's more of a poo walkie-talkie.
Liam: I don't know what either of those things are.
Sam: Just know that there's poo involved.
Liam: Does the poop talk like my earring? Because that I understand.
Laura: Yes, it's like a poop earring.
Liam: It's like a poop earring. Why didn't you say that in the first place? You talk through it? You talk to poo?
Sam: You see through it.
Matt: Hashtag poop earring.
Laura: So yes. There's multiple things.
Sam: Well, multiple things. There's just go back to Kraghammer and get money, or go where Keyleth wants to go.
Laura: We can look for work here, we can go back to Bahamut, see if they want--
Taliesin: Keyleth's got family. We can visit her family.
Laura: That's what I'm talking about, yes. Fire, brimstone, volcanoes. Druids.
Travis: Keyleth, do you have an opinion?
Marisha: I mean... I guess if you guys don't have anything else to do, yeah.
Liam: How far are they from here?
Marisha: I'm not sure. We'd have to start asking around. They're remote. We're secluded people.
Laura: Secrety.
Marisha: We're a little secrety, yeah, and we haven't heard-- I just want to clarify, you know. I haven't talked to them in a long time, so I hope they're nice. And I'm sure they're--
Liam: Family stuff can be tricky.
Taliesin: It seems a shame to have a family and not take advantage of it.
Sam: What's family for other to take advantage of?
Travis: To hit. To kiss.
Laura: To kiss? You kiss your family?
Travis: Yeah, I'm a goliath. What about it?
Laura: There are things about goliaths I did not want to know. That water has a good effect on him.
Liam: Do you feel drawn to your parents, though? Do you want to go?
Marisha: I have to go. I don't have a choice.
Liam: Then we should go.
Marisha: Okay. I just don't want to inconvenience anybody.
Laura: Inconvenience, schminconvenience.
Sam: Oh, is that Dwarvish?
Laura: Yes. It's actually Underdark. I'm fluent.
Marisha: Oh wait, that was Dwarvish? Inconschmenience.
Taliesin: Your accent's amazing.
Marisha: I'm trying to work on learning more Dwarvish. Okay.
Travis: I have a question for you, Vax. The Braving Grounds that are here, would it be to our benefit to collect maybe some coin and practice our (gets choked up) fighting before we go to the maybe-friendly fire jugglers' village?
Liam: You want to go back in there? It's awfully fresh.
Travis: Not the Crucible. Don't rub my face in it. Not in the Crucible, to the Braving Grounds.
Liam: The Braving Grounds. We were just in the pub. I mean, that was just a backyard brawl, basically. He's talking about going to the temple.
Travis: Was that the Crucible I was in?
Matt: The Crucible was the pit you were in. The temple you were at is the Trial Forge. The whole area you guys are in, this district of Vasselheim, is known as the Braving Grounds.
Liam: This is what I think, Grog. It's too fresh. You need some time away from it. We should absolutely come back and you should break that guy's fucking face, no question.
Travis: (choked up) I could've. Totally could've.
Liam: You almost did.
Laura: Yeah. Next time, bite his nose off right away before it's concave.
Travis: I saved it for too late. I did it too late. But then in the balls...
Laura: The balls-- good effort.
Liam: We've come a very long way. Keyleth is near her family. She needs to see where that road lies.
Taliesin: We should take care of each other.
Liam: And once we do, we'll come back and fucking kill that guy.
Travis: And we can use weapons if they suck, right?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Speaking of weapons, aren't we in a perfect weapons-buying district?
Sam: Is that true?
Travis: Yes! Can we go find an armory or somewhere that sells pointy things?
Matt: You can certainly try. Yeah. As a note, too, as you're having this conversation, you reach into your pocket, Grog. As you're feeling around in your pocket, you realize that you saved in your drunken state the upper lip. It's rubbery and dry, but it's there.
Travis: I tuck that inside of my belt-beard. Just so it's nice there. One little part of it just flapping out.
Laura: What about your beard? Is he growing his beard?
Travis: Oh, it is a new day.
Matt: You get to go ahead and roll a percentage dice.
Travis: Nine, 90.
Matt: 99. No beard this morning. It goes the other way.
Travis: It goes the other way?!
Matt: Lower percentage.
Travis: My life is shit! I can't do anything!
Matt: It's a rough day for Grog.
Travis: I'm hanging myself. Where's the bridge?
Sam: There's no bridge here.
Laura: Actually, I don't know about anybody else, but I'm incredibly low on funds at the moment.
Taliesin: Perhaps shopping is not the best path.
Marisha: We did just do a lot of shopping.
Sam: Yeah, let's go adventuring.
Taliesin: We haven't had an awkward parental confrontation in what feels like months.
Marisha: Okay. You guys, I'm so nervous.
Travis: You really are?
Marisha: Well, I mean, it's a big thing.
Travis: Have you seen them, ever?
Marisha: The first time I left home was when I met up with you guys.
Matt: (impact) You guys suddenly hear this slamming sound that echoes throughout the nearby city. You hear this impact, like this distant crashing of stone against stone. A few seconds later, you hear this low (horn sound), this horn that's just bellowing out, this deep echoing horn. The rest of the tavern looks around, confused. A couple of individuals step outside to look.
Orion: I'm at the dock, right?
Matt: You've been walking away for a while, and you get about roughly ten minutes away before you hear this impact and these horns going off in the distance.
Sam: I turn to the barkeep and say, well, what was that? Do you know? Have you heard that before? What is that?
Matt: "It's the horn of the Trial. Means there's some sort of attack."
Sam: Attack? Where? How do we know where?
Matt: "I don't know, but I'm getting ready." And he starts going to the back room.
Laura: Getting ready where? What are we doing?
Orion: I'm going to cast Fly on myself and see what's going on.
Matt: Okay, so you become visible and begin lifting up into the air--
Orion: No, I'm still invisible for a round.
Matt: Oh, because the-- okay. So you lift into the air and then appear as the concentration spell wears off. You got your crown. Looking over, you can see immediately there appears to be some commotion, like some dust has scattered up from the forest on the far side of the Braving Grounds, outside of the major wall of the city.
Orion: I'm going to do a (whoosh) to where they are.
Matt: Okay, you start gliding over. As you guys rush out, you can see now a bunch of the Bastions that are set across the top of the wall are gathering and loading in bolts, and you see two of them fire. You hear this now guttural roaring sound, but multiple ones, like a chorus of large bestial screams echo and then (wham) a second slamming sound of stone into stone, and you can see at the very distant wall, right below where those two Bastions would have fired those giant dragon-headed bolt-throwers, both get thrown off the top, falling a good 40 feet out of view beyond the distant rooftops. You can see a small crack beginning to form at the top of the wall. Two other Bastions now begin to rush in and take the place of those two bolt-throwers.
Liam: I yank two daggers out, flip them, catch them, and just start running.
Laura: Can I grab the flying carpet out of the Bag of Holding before you take off?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Sure. You grab it. You guys start running. You're gliding in.
Sam: I'm ambling behind them.
Orion: I'm going to where the attack is, not to them.
Taliesin: I'm going to hop on the carpet with you.
Marisha: I'm going.
Laura: I swing down and pick up my brother.
Taliesin: I'm hopping on, as well.
Matt: You hop on.
Liam: Come along, Percival.
Matt: At which point, two more bolts are let loose, and you hear the creature once again scream (screech) in pain, and then the footfalls.
Liam: We don't see them yet?
Matt: No, you just hear it. It's on the other side of the wall. You see what looks like a toothy maw streak across the top of the tower for a moment, and then the tree line shift, and the footfalls get quieter and quieter.
Travis: Go ask one of the Bastion guys what it was.
Laura: Yeah, we fly up next to one of the shooter guys and say, what was it? What is it?
Matt: Okay, you glide up to it, and as you look down, you can see the two Bastions that fell. They're currently being tended to. One of them looks unconscious and rough from the impact of the fall, the other one's walking with a limp, trying to find its way back towards the interior of the wall that leads up to the top of his post. The one you come by has sweat beading down his face and you see he's loaded another bolt and he's looking out, wide-eyed, towards the forest. He goes, "It came back."
Laura: What came back?
Matt: "We've had this blasted thing seen on and off again for the past few weeks. Maybe it's hungry or it's bored, but either way, this multi-headed thing, this hydra-like creature keeps coming in and I don't know, I think it's testing the wall."
Laura: Like a raptor.
Travis: They remember.
Laura: Clever girl. (laughter)
Liam: Clever girl. (laughter)
Sam: Should we go kill it?
Liam: I don't see it anymore. I think it's gone back into the woods.
Matt: "It's fled. Got a few hits in, but it went and... we can never seem to get enough to take it down."
Liam: How frequently are these attacks coming?
Sam: Of course we can track it.
Matt: "I mean, you're welcome to try. It's only been maybe two or three times this past week, but it's come once or twice a week for the past month, hitting different areas of the city. Not just this beast, a few different ones, but mostly this abomination. It's a nuisance more than anything, although it did get a good hit on the wall." And he looks over and you can see there's a crack in the stone. He looks nervously over it and, "I'll get to fixing that right quick. It keeps slinking off back into the Vesper Timberlands. Kord help us if there's more than one of these."
Laura: Kord help us. Good old Kord. Okay.
Travis: I grab my earring and I say, Tiberius, where are you?
Orion: I'm flying around.
Matt: You just now glide over, seeing the flying carpet towards the top of the wall.
Orion: I'm above you.
Travis: Where?
Orion: Here!
Matt: He is visible, just gliding by. You guys have run up to the edge of the wall. You're beneath looking up at the flying carpet and they're having this conversation at such a distance where you can't really hear them talking. Percy, Vex, and Vax, you're up on the flying carpet currently, conversing with the Bastion.
Laura: Can we float up a little bit and see if we can see movement in the trees where it is?
Matt: You glance over and you can see the canopy shifting slightly. It's about a quarter-mile off and disappearing before it's eventually a little bit out of sight. You figure a creature that large can't be too difficult to track.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: Go kill it?
Laura: Well, here's the thing. I bring the carpet back down and say, I see where it went, if you guys want to fight it. What do you think?
Orion: I'd like to go get my money at Kraghammer.
Sam: I thought we'd decided to go to Keyleth's.
Matt: The individuals are now, they're currently--
Marisha: You left during the family meeting.
Liam: That money's not going anywhere.
Orion: I suppose you're right.
Liam: Let's help the city out, then we'll go on to see Keyleth's parents.
Sam: Help the city out by going to track the hydra first?
Travis: I run back to the tavern real fast. People have left, right?
Matt: Yeah, there are people outside looking at what happened.
Travis: Barkeep still there?
Matt: He's there, and he's currently putting on armor by himself.
Travis: It's okay, it left. Big crack in the wall. Might think about leaving. Before you do, the Siren. Where might I find her?
Matt: He thinks to himself, says, "She's a slippery one. She only shows up when she wants to start a fight. I gather your best bet would be to ask around. I hear she runs at times with the-- what are they called? The Slayer's Take. The Slayer's Take." As you guys are talking about this, the Bastion that was talking to you guys is now coming down the wall, and he's like, "Are you seriously thinking about going after that thing?"
Sam: Only if there's money involved.
Matt: "Oh, I can guarantee a beast of that size and that much of a problem's got a hell of a price on its head."
Laura: From who? (laughter)
Sam: From who? (laughter)
Matt: "I gather anyone you take it to at that point. Probably take just one or more of its heads back, or some proof it's dead, and I'm sure there will be a few people that will fight hand over fist to pay for that."
Liam: We could easily get a head. Let's go right now. Grog's doing something. Let's go.
Sam: Hey, Grog. Grog, come in. We're going to go kill something. We need you.
Liam: How? We're on the carpet, he's flying. Scanlan's riding on an eagle.
Marisha: I can try a Locate Creature spell.
Taliesin: You can do a what?
Marisha: I can cast Locate Creature.
Taliesin: She can cast Locate Creature.
Sam: Let's leave Trinket behind. Just for now, it's so hard to keep track of Trinket, Jesus.
Liam: Grog's been fighting for a long time, he needs rest. Let's go!
Matt: Trinket is there behind you.
Laura: Polymorph him, please.
Marisha: I didn't learn Polymorph. You're going to have to ask Scanlan about that one.
Laura: Scanlan, please. Polymorph him.
Sam: What, me? Do I know Polymorph?
Liam: Whatever that thing is, it's getting away. We're losing time.
Laura: We can track him. I'm a ranger.
Marisha: I drop to my knees and I cast Locate Creature.
Travis: I can only come if Tiberius lets me.
Sam: Oh, to fly.
Liam: Yes, exactly. Let's keep twiddling our thumbs.
Orion: I'm going to cast Fly out of my ring on Grog.
Matt: All right. Grog.
Sam: I guess we're going. Hold on!
Marisha: Do you want to use your ranger tracking skills, or should I try and cast the spell?
Laura: I can definitely use my ranger skills.
Orion: I'm going to cast it at 5th level, and I'm going to cast it on myself, I'll keep it on him, Grog, and Trinket.
Matt: Okay. So Trinket once again-- (distressed bear noises)
Orion: Like last time, remember, Trinket?
Matt: Trinket seems to be a little less perturbed by the circumstance.
Travis: I grab Trinket's paw like in Superman 1, and we fly.
Matt: Grog and Trinket, coasting through the air, arm in paw.
Travis: Thank you, Tiberius.
Liam: Peter Pan and Wendy.
Taliesin: Can you read my mind?
Matt: All right. So as you guys all drift up over the town, you can immediately see the Bastion that was talking to you is looking very, very curiously at Tiberius.
Laura: Oh, don't worry, he's really nice!
Sam: Sorry, there was just a little magic so we could go kill the hydra, sorry... (laughter)
Matt: As you guys vanish over the wall, you can now see before you the entirety of the Vesper Timberlands.
Liam: Most people just say thank you! Dick.
Matt: Below you, the landscape is entirely consumed by what looks like the densest forest you've ever encountered. The cold air seems to be growing colder as the day progresses on and the clouds themselves are choked dark grey. The rain never fell last night, but the storms seem, or at least the storm front that seems to push its way is still ominously looking overhead the entirety of this landscape. Looking down across the Vesper Timberland, you can see the thick canopy, the occasional mountain or hill that's jutting through the top of it, but there is no movement. There is no current sign of the creature.
Travis: Let's use some bait.
Sam: Wait no, we saw the direction it went in, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Don't worry, my sister's a ranger. She can track anything.
Laura: Why are you being an asshole to me today?
Liam: I don't know, why am I?
Laura: I don't know! (laughter)
Laura: I judged him, apparently, but I don't remember doing it.
Liam: The Critters will figure it out.
Laura: Yeah, can I go low to the ground and track it?
Matt: You can. So you take the carpet down, and as it hits the canopy, it's a very slow, arduous process to weave between the thick network of branches and vines and other bits of growth that have completely covered the top of this forest. Eventually, the carpet comes down into the floor. The rest of you guys who are flying coming along, as well?
Sam: I'm coming along.
Matt: You all come down behind the carpet, eventually breaking through the top of the canopy and reaching the interior of the Vesper Timberland itself.
Laura: This is my other favored terrain.
Matt: Good to know. This forest, incredibly lush, presses up against the city walls itself, nearly oppressively with the impact. It grows up right against the city wall. And it's almost like the wall itself is constantly keeping it at bay in the way that the growth that's pushing inward. The tree trunks you see, now that you've hit the interior, vary in size, some only a few feet in diameter. You come across a couple that are 20, 30 feet or more, giant trees. Also, even though it's midday at this point in time, the light into the forest is choked so thin it's almost like it's dusk, near dark, inside the forest. The air hits you with the smell of wet earth, moss. Vines and branches dangle from and reach from every direction, and you can see there are, you can walk through the path here, but nearing trees themselves, the roots are so large and so twisted where they enter the ground. You're definitely going to have to keep up with your ranger friend here.
Liam: Just like the old days.
Orion: Now we've touched down and we're traveling?
Matt: You guys are in the forest pushing through various walkways. Go ahead and make a survival check with advantage.
Sam: Survival check? Is that for her?
Matt: Yep. She's tracking the creature.
Laura: Oh, natural 20! (cheering)
Matt: All right. Following its path, you see that there are tracks going both ways, meaning the creature as it came through towards the city, it turned its path about and then exited the same pathway. So as you're following it along for a good 15 minutes or so, you come across a small opening in the forest where you can see what looks to be a very messily partially devoured carcass of something.
Laura: Is it big?
Matt: It looks like it was pretty big, it's definitely spread out over this area.
Laura: I think it ate something here, you guys.
Sam: Good ranging.
Laura: Thank you.
Taliesin: I'd like to try and identify the animal that it ate.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: 13?
Matt: 13? You look at it, it appears to be some sort of furred beast. Huge in size at one point, it is long-dead for at least--
Taliesin: Like moose-big or bigger?
Matt: No, as big as some of the umber hulks you've fought. But it looks humanoid-ish, more primate-like. The more you look at it, it looks like it may have been at one point a large, massive ape of some kind. But it has been torn open, limbs scattered all across this small clearing. You can see there are a series of bite and scratch marks across it, and most of its internal organs are missing.
Taliesin: I don't know what we're tracking, but I think it's friendly.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to see if I can figure anything out about the nature of the attack?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: That's going to be 21.
Matt: 21. As you look down at it and you take close inspection on the attack, you look, a creature like this, when it destroys and bites, especially the creature that you saw earlier briefly, it appeared through the canopy when you first arrived. Many heads, gnashing teeth. The bite marks and the attack on this carcass are definitely in line with that creature. However, you do notice that there are other marks and attacks across it, as well. Some of the wounds across its body appear to be made by weapons. There are gash marks and slashes. And the more and more you inspect the body, you can see the blood that has been scattered about by this was thick and congealed by the time that it was tossed amongst this opening.
Marisha: Does it look like the wounds from the weapons happened post-mortem? Or at the same time?
Matt: Actually, the wounds from the weapons appear to have occurred fresh, whereas the wounds from being killed and eaten, or being eaten by the creature, appear to be post-mortem by quite some time.
Liam: So it was killed by civilized folks and then torn apart by this thing.
Travis: Maybe the Slayer's Take.
Marisha: Can I figure out what kind, was it some bird creature? Is all Percy could--
Matt: Ape creature. It's essentially a massive, for lack of a better term, a dire-sized ape.
Taliesin: Dire-ape. It's possible somebody was feeding it.
Laura: Should we continue on, keep tracking?
Liam: My sister and I are going to check and see if there's any sign of it in the area.
Laura: Yeah, perception check around. Oh, that looks good.
Liam: Yes, it was. 21 for me.
Laura: Yeah, only 18 for me. But wait, advantage. That's way better! 25.
Matt: 25. Looking ahead, this carcass was eaten before the creature attacked the city. You can see from the time difference that this happened. But it has torn through this space recently. You can see part of the body has been shoved aside and crushed under some giant clawed foot. It continues weaving between the trees in this small pathway that looks well-worn, like there are some portions of the forest that are well-overgrown and mostly untouched. There is a specific path along the floor of this forest that looks like it's been used often by large footsteps and small ones.
Laura: Should we follow along that path? But maybe off to the side a bit, like in the trees but next to the path?
Sam: No, let's just go down the middle. What, did it leave traps? It's a hydra.
Liam: I'll go down in the bushes, thanks.
Orion: Is it like a thicket? Is this rough terrain we're going through?
Matt: There are many portions of this that come across as rough terrain. At certain times it's okay, especially on the worn path, any off that can be a little more difficult to traverse.
Orion: Is it plant life?
Matt: Plant life, tree roots, heavy thick branches that have fallen or have grown out and interwoven. Occasional rocks or natural formations that are jutting out of the earth.
Sam: Let's continue on as fast as possible.
Matt: Make another tracking check, with advantage.
Laura: Oh man, another one?
Matt: (singing) Advantage.
Laura: 16.
Sam: I'm going to inspire her with a little song of inspiration. (singing) And the ranger's going to range, range, range, range, range. And the tracker's going to track, track, track, track, track. I'm just going to watch, watch, watch, watch, watch. Watch her range.
All: (singing) Watch her range.
Laura: What do I need to add?
Matt: A d10.
Laura: Okay, so 19.
Sam: Oh good. Three points.
Matt: All right. You continue moving forward off the track for another ten minutes or so before you see some movement ahead.
Laura: Perception?
Matt: Perception check.
Taliesin: I'll join in that. 21.
Travis: 12.
Laura: 18.
Orion: How far away are we from each other?
Matt: You guys are keeping a pretty close view, you're a little behind them, but you're letting them push forward unless you choose to do anything otherwise.
Liam: I'm going stealth.
Matt: All right. Make a stealth check. You and Percy go ahead and you look forward, and you notice there are a couple small pools of water that have just coalesced through the recent storms or just a natural small pool of water that exists in this portion, but you can see the back of a large, scaled creature with a tan dark-brown hide, long tail, currently stooped down and drinking from the waters in the pool. You can hear the distant (lapping) sound of water dripping out of its jaws, and you can see now, there are multiple heads taking drinks out of this pool here.
Sam: Is the foliage around us green? Brown? Standard foliage color?
Matt: In this area, because of the nature of the rich earth, most of the foliage here is a deep green.
Sam: I'm going to turn us all deep green. With Seeming.
Liam: With what now?
Sam: Seeming. Yes with Seeming. I spread my Seeming all over us, turning us green. With Seeming all over us.
Taliesin: There's nothing you can't ruin.
Matt: As the hue of your garments begin to shift to the color of the surrounding forest, I'd like everybody to make a stealth check who hasn't already, with advantage.
Liam: Oh, 30.
Orion: I cast Stoneskin right now.
Sam: We're rolling for stealth? With advantage?
Laura: Natural 20!
Taliesin: 15.
Sam: 16.
Marisha: 25 total.
Matt: These are trees. There, looming at the edge of the water--
Laura: Whoa. Is that a dragon?
Matt: That is a massive hydra.
Laura: So it's not technically in the dragon school?
Matt: No. It is considered a monstrosity, technically. You guys are all hidden off to the side here.
Liam: I'm scooting forward quietly.
Taliesin: Hail, hydra.
Marisha: Where do you hail from, hydra?
Matt: All right, we'll put that as your guys' current placement. Stealth scores are?
Liam: 30.
Sam: 16.
Orion: 18.
Marisha: 25.
Taliesin: 15.
Travis: 15.
Laura: It was a natural 20. Do I add anything?
Matt: No, you don't have to worry about that.
Sam: So we're all good.
Matt: Okay. The creature keeps drinking. Occasionally, a head will come up and look around. Another head will come up and snap at it, and snap back, and then both go down and they start drinking on their own. You apparently are not currently noticed.
Laura: Should I have rolled for Trinket?
Matt: Go ahead and roll for Trinket.
Laura: I rolled an 18 for Trinket.
Matt: Okay, Trinket's fine. Trinket with his deep green fur, at the moment. So what would you like to do?
Liam: I'm pulling out my Dagger of Venom.
Travis: Set a really good trap. Let's think about this.
Marisha: I can box him in with my Wall of Stone.
Laura: I can cast the spike-growth thing again.
Sam: Should we try to push him in the water?
Travis: We could lightning the water.
Laura: In the water, then lightning the water? That's good.
Orion: I have all kinds of things.
Travis: Suggestions?
Liam: If you box it in, we can't get inside.
Orion: If we can nudge it into where he's drinking, then box him in.
Laura: Drown him?
Travis: Or lightning the water?
Laura: Yeah. Box him in the water and then lightning the water.
Travis: Keyleth, you're up.
Liam: Keyleth, when you shape the stone, can you make it lean towards him in a ramp? I can run up. It would still box him in. I could just traverse it.
Marisha: Yeah, I see what you're saying. I'm going to pyramid him in, essentially. I'm going to try and make almost behind him is an auditorium and the front of him is a jabby ramp. Does that make sense? Auditorium?
Sam: Let's do this.
Matt: Okay. The wall of stone has to be connected to itself, so it would have to be like--
Marisha: Okay, I'll do a spiral. Like a spiraly ramp that traps him in.
Taliesin: We're going to take the carpet and make our way to the other pond.
Laura: Do you want to go from either side? You take the carpet, go to the other side, and I'll walk over with Trinket to the other. What is he looking for?
Matt: Our carpet got moved. We have flying carpets from fans here I want to use, but it got moved.
Marisha: Are they in our magic box?
Matt: We'll find them. We've got carpets from you guys to use. We'll get that in just a second. It's fine. We've got to move. So Percy?
Taliesin: I have the carpet, I'm going to head towards that small--
Matt: You have the laser pointer. Show me.
Taliesin: What is that?
Matt: That is a rock.
Taliesin: I'm going to move just to the other side of that.
Matt: Okay, you coast through here, unseen.
Laura: I'm going to do the same to the other side, actually.
Matt: Around and behind to this side, here?
Laura: Would I be able to shoot him from behind the one further back?
Matt: From here, right now? No.
Laura: Well then I'll go behind the big tree. There, yeah. Totally hidden!
Matt: Yes. Anyone else, placement?
Sam: I'm going to move closer.
Matt: Okay. Right there.
Marisha: Hey, Matt? Instead of Wall of Stone, I'm actually going to cast my one 6th-level spell, which is Move Earth.
Matt: Have you read Move Earth?
Marisha: Yeah. A few weeks ago.
Matt: You can move large chunks of earth over a small period of time. It's not an attack spell, it's more of you can dig a cave.
Marisha: Never mind. I'll stick with the original plan. I can't dome him up and go ahead and push him in the water really quick at this point?
Matt: Probably not with that one.
Marisha: All right, I'll stick with Wall of Stone, which I know I can do. Make a hydra pyramid!
Liam: I rolled a 30. I want to get down in a crouch and just run right there.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, where are you going? To have line of sight on the creature, where are you going?
Marisha: Right there is fine.
Matt: You don't have line of sight on the creature. There's a tree blocking.
Marisha: Oh. No, let me move towards Scanlan.
Matt: All right, so over here?
Marisha: Yep.
Orion: I'd like to do an investigation on his-- oh yes! I rolled a 21.
Matt: What are you trying to do?
Orion: Guess how much he weighs.
Matt: A creature of this size, probably close to two tons. More than three tons, maybe? 5,000 pounds.
Orion: Damn it. Too big.
Matt: It's a big creature. Grog, where are you going?
Travis: I'm going to post up on, where's my laser pointer?
Sam: In your eye! God, you're having the worst day!
Liam: Just headbutt a tree or something.
Matt: Tiberius, you're staying right there?
Orion: Keeping within 100 feet of it.
Matt: Okay, that's well within a hundred feet.
Orion: Well, Vax can move. Is that my best POV?
Matt: To see it, yeah. Otherwise, you would be blocked.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: All right.
Orion: Actually, we can move anywhere right now, right?
Matt: All right, is everyone set? Who's taking first initiative on this?
Marisha: I am.
Laura: Can you move Trinket next to Grog?
Matt: Trinket moves around next to Grog.
Marisha: Okay, I want to try and do a little pushy-shovery at the same time.
Matt: All right. There you are.
Laura: There we go, look at us all. Strategized.
Sam: Yeah, that's going to come in handy when he just kills all of us in one shot.
Marisha: Okay. As he gets in that corner of that puddle, I'm going to Fibonacci circle and starting here, push him in a bit and wrap him up.
Matt: Okay, so you create from the earth a wall of stone that comes jutting out. That way?
Marisha: Yeah, I want him to be tight in the circle here, and if I can get it to push him towards the water.
Matt: The force of the wall of stone slams into him and through the physical form, it's not enough to actually move a creature of its size and weight, but it does form around it and hold it in place, currently.
Liam: As soon as Vax sees that, he starts running through the grass, up the slope of the stone.
Matt: It's currently surrounded by a ramp of stone. The heads start reaching out and biting at the stone.
Orion: You're running up the stone?
Liam: Yeah, and I'm clicking one boot against the other as I run up it, so I'm going faster, run up, and I'm going to jump and I'm going to start stabbing into that head.
Matt: All righty. Go for it.
Liam: Okay, 17. Shit. And 27.
Matt: Second one hits.
Liam: The final one hits?
Matt: Oh sorry, the first one was?
Liam: 17. One.
Matt: One misses, the final one hits, yes.
Liam: Okay. So does this count as sneak attack? All right, so I roll a nine for damage, plus eight, 12, 14, 15, 17 of sneak attack damage, with the first attack, that's poison. And the poison is DC 15.
Matt: DC 15. Misses. Does not make its save.
Liam: With 11 points of poison damage to its head. That's just the first attack that hits. And then I take my keen dagger and I jab for the eye, and that is a ten of damage.
Matt: Nice. It is considered a sneak attack because this is a surprise round.
Liam: Both attacks?
Matt: The first attack that hits is considered a sneak attack.
Liam: First attack I gave you was sneak attack.
Matt: No, I mean the first attack that hits it. You missed, missed, and then you hit.
Liam: Oh, I thought I hit and missed and hit.
Matt: Missed, missed, and hit.
Liam: All right, well then erase the first numbers I told you. It's just ten plus-- it was 17, so 27.
Matt: All right. 27 damage. You leap, run up the stonework, click the heels, rush down and then slam, and the dagger slips into the front of its torso, the actual blade pulsing as the magical energy expels itself, the poison rocketing through its body. All of a sudden, the heads turn around and now you have five heads looking at you.
Liam: Add 15 of poison to that. Add 15 of poison.
Matt: Awesome. Is he poisoned? Or just takes 15 additional points of damage?
Liam: It gets poisoned, and it takes damage on the first hit and every round I think it takes that poison.
Matt: No, it just means it's poisoned, which means it has disadvantage.
Liam: Oh, yes. DC 15, plus damage on the hit.
Matt: There's the flying carpet. (cheering)
Orion: Is any part of the creature still in the water?
Matt: One of its feet is currently off to the side in the water.
Orion: Cool. I'm going to cast Invisibility. And I can see it, because I'm on the other side of the ramp, right? I'm going to cast Chain Lightning right at the foot.
Sam: Chain Lightning? You have Chain Lightning?
Marisha: It's new.
Orion: Yes, it is. It's a 150 foot range, and I do 10d8 damage.
Sam: I know, I used it at the fight that you didn't want to fight in.
Matt: Yeah, what's the DC?
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17. All right, it does make its save, so half damage.
Orion: How do I count these? There's a bunch of sevens. Stupid ones.
Sam: 28.
Orion: All together?
Sam: No, that's 28.
Orion: Oh. 38. 43.
Matt: 43. Awesome. So a total of 22 points of damage from a save. So as it's stepping into the water, it takes an additional, I'll say, additional 2d8 from being in the water. I'll roll them here. Additional nine damage to that. As it pulls back, the stone around it, the rogue leaps up and slams it with a blade, its heads turn around, and as it does, you turn around, vanish from sight, and then... you cast Greater Invisibility or just Invisibility?
Orion: Greater.
Matt: Okay. Release your hands and a torrent of blue electrical energy rockets forth from your hands, streaking out, some parts leaving arcs that hit the nearby forests and then slamming into its body, its exposed heads. You can see the arcs now shooting through between the various necks and bodies. It writhes and streaks about, slamming its body into part of the stone that cracks and heaves from the impact, still holding it in place. Well done. You want to move, or is that your turn?
Orion: I'm going, what are the big lumps, are those trees?
Matt: These are trees. Anywhere walking on the trunk around it is difficult terrain, you cannot pass.
Orion: I'm just going to go right behind that tree.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Who else wants to do anything this round?
Laura: I want to shoot him.
Matt: You all get a free round, and then we roll initiative.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on it.
Matt: Hunter's Mark on it.
Liam: Oh, I'm sorry, DM? This is after the fact. Assassinate, on any attack before the enemy's had a chance to take a turn yet, any hit on surprise is a crit.
Matt: Good to know, so that's 54 damage from your initial strike.
Liam: Thank you. That's all I get. That's all I do.
Laura: So I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns at 3rd level. I'm going to roll for that. Jesus. That's only 16. That doesn't hit, does it?
Matt: For Hail of Thorns? 16 does not hit, unfortunately.
Marisha: Even though he's trapped?
Matt: No, it's against the armor. It actually ricochets off the hide of the creature and disappears. It explodes against a tree trunk in the distance, and you can see a smattering of magical thorns shoot out into one of the canopies.
Laura: Okay. Then I'm going to try just doing a regular attack through the magical bow of fire. And that is 17.
Matt: Hail of Thorns is an action to cast, though, isn't it? You've already used your bonus action to cast Hunter's Mark.
Laura: Then never mind, I don't do anything. I just fucking fucked that up.
Matt: It's okay, it's a surprise round. Do you want to do anything with your self-placement or Trinket-wise?
Laura: Yeah, I want to climb a tree that I'm next to.
Matt: Okay. Using your movement. Go ahead and make, we'll say an athletics check to climb the tree.
Laura: What was that, athletics or acrobatics?
Matt: Athletics.
Laura: Why?
Matt: Because there's no branches nearby, you have to--
Laura: Six! I'm going to stay on the ground.
Matt: You slide back to the trunk, turn around and grab your bow and prepare yourself. Trinket, anything?
Laura: Trinket's going to stay right there.
Sam: I'll move and do Lightning. Why not? Just try to get as much as possible. Just so I won't hit whoever that is.
Matt: That would probably be right there. All right, so you unleash a Lightning Bolt?
Sam: Yes, I do.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage, 8d6. Does not make its save. Rolled a five.
Liam: By the way, we need seven more subs, which is ironically the same number of heads the hydra has.
Taliesin: Seven more subs?
Marisha: Seven more subs?
Orion: Seven more subs?
Matt: Seven more subs?
Taliesin: We're going to get a bear!
Sam: 19.
Matt: 19?
Sam: 19.
Matt: All right, gotcha. That was the total 8d6?
Sam: That was 6d6.
Matt: 8d6 for Lightning Bolt. Roll two more.
Sam: Ten more!
Matt: All right, 29. You turn around the corner, the energy still crackling around it from the Chain Lightning. You unleash your own Lightning Bolt that hits it from the side, slamming into the side of one of the heads. The head actually pops from the impact. It's now got four heads.
Sam: Oh, hey. I got a head!
Taliesin: What's my distance? Is this Pepperbox distance or Bad News distance, at the moment?
Matt: Right now, you can't see because there's a tree in the way, but you're Pepperbox distance from here. You could try Bad News, but you'd have to set up in place.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to start curling around the tree I'm near. I'm going to take some movement to fly over the pond back here. And while I'm making my little round, I'm going to take two shots with the Pepperbox.
Matt: Okay, so as the carpet's gliding past, you're basically strafing it and (gunshots). Go ahead and fire.
Liam: You have a bear.
Marisha: She has a bear? We got a bear!
Matt: Oh my god, there's going to be a giant Trinket. That's so stupid.
Taliesin: Full-on misfire. (cackles) Yeah, I misfire. I don't care; we got a bear.
Matt: All right. We got a bear. As you strafe past, you pull your Pepperbox and go to fire. Suddenly there's a dull sound, and as you look at your gun, it explodes for a second in your face. You barely manage to get your visage out of the way as the barrel itself is heated up and you have to shake it off. Yeah, your Pepperbox is looking a bit rough right now.
Taliesin: It's fine; I'm putting it away.
Matt: Okay. So everyone else has gone but Grog.
Travis: Me? Can I run all the way up and try and pull a Vax, like he did?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Hey, I want to try that! And I rage as I attack it!
Matt: All right, as you rush up, axe in your hand, you rush up the side of the stone ramp that she's created and it's right in slamming distance. Go ahead.
Travis: I swing away. 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: Yes, and the second. 16.
Matt: 16, no. 16 misses. And then?
Travis: That's it, just the two. I'm not frenzied. Yes. 17.
Matt: 17 points of damage as you hack once again, slamming into the side of one of the necks, causing a gout of purplish blood to spray over the right side of your body. That ends the combat round for the surprise round. The creature is now aware that you're definitely there. Everyone roll initiative. All right, so 25 to 20?
Orion: 22.
Matt: 20 to 15?
Laura: 19.
Sam: 16. First good roll I've ever had.
Matt: For initiative, yeah. 15 to ten?
Taliesin: 13.
Travis: 13.
Matt: Both of you guys 13. All right.
Marisha: Four.
Liam: 12.
Orion: That's what you usually get.
Taliesin: You got a four?
Marisha: Yeah, I did.
Matt: All right. Top of the round, Tiberius. As you start to see the head that got blown off, two heads sprout out of the--
Sam: Out of the wound.
Matt: It now has six heads.
Sam: It had five when we started!
Matt: Yep. And when you blew off the head, two more grew in its place.
Laura: Wait, but when Hercules defeated him, he just cut off so many that they started attacking themselves and they got tangled up.
Matt: Regardless, Tiberius, it's your turn.
Orion: It's still on the same position it was, though, right? When we started? Right?
Matt: Yep. It did seem to heal a bit of its wounds as the heads pull out of it. It has a sense of regeneration.
Orion: And I go, oh no you don't. And I stick out my ring and Chain Lightning him again.
Matt: Chain Lightning is a 6th-level spell.
Orion: Yeah, I know, and I had one stored in my ring.
Matt: Your ring can only store up to a 3rd-level spell. We went over this last time. It's okay.
Orion: No, I thought that was the Ioun Stone. We all learned something today, kids. I don't do that. Instead, fine. I'm going to cast Telekinesis once. And I'm instantly going to do quicken spell and do five sorcerer points to cast it immediately again. Cast it on one head and another head and (bashing, tying sounds). To try and wrap them all and choke them.
Matt: Go ahead and roll an arcana check for the first one.
Orion: Wasn't terrible. What is that?
Sam: 14.
Matt: Okay, and for the second one?
Orion: Natural 20.
Matt: Okay, so it rolled a 17 on its second save. The first one, it did not resist because it rolled a three. So what you do as you cast Telekinesis once, you use the sorcery points to cast it again. You can't get all the heads, but you can grab two of them, one focus for each telekinetic thing. You take both heads and (whack, whack) slam them three times into each other and then twist the necks around at the point where both of them are biting onto their own necks after they've torn into a second. For that, they're both going to take 2d8 impact damage. That's nine plus five. 14 points of impact damage to each head. Both of those heads are currently grappling each other, so they will not be able to attack on its turn.
Orion: And then I go back against the tree. That is my turn.
Matt: All right. It is now the hydra's turn. It rolled a really high initiative. The two heads are going to untangle themselves. That's their attack. Now it only has four strikes this turn, two of which are going to be against you and two of which are going to be against you. All right, so. Two of the heads rear back, lunging at Vax over here. That's going to be a 29. Second one is going to be a 19.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: All right. So you take... 17 and 15. 17 and 15, so 32 points of piercing damage. One of the heads snaps down on your torso and lifts you up for a second as the other grabs the side of your body, and it feels like it's about to tear you apart for a second until you manage to elbow it in the nose and manage to get free of one head and shake off the other. Grog, another head comes at you. First one comes at a 24.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And a natural 20 for the second.
Travis: Yeah, I guess so. Phillip's a fucking douche today.
Matt: 14 points from the first one. You are raging, so it's halved to seven. The other one that is a critical, that does come to 24, so 12 points of piercing damage. All right. That ends its turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Can I see its body at all?
Matt: Yeah, you can see its body, it's pretty large, mainly just the heads are visible, the ramp is blocking the lower half of it. So you can't see its legs and its main part of its torso, but you can see the necks and the heads.
Laura: So I can't see its body.
Matt: Currently, no. It is blocked by her stone.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to shoot towards where-- is this bad? Oh no! I'm going to shoot towards where all of the heads are joined together.
Matt: It managed to unravel itself during its turn, but it used its attacks to do so.
Laura: Yeah, down where all these heads are connected. Right here.
Matt: Oh, okay. You can sort of see that area. Best you can, yeah.
Laura: I'm going to shoot my fancy exploding arrow.
Taliesin: The untested?
Matt: The one that you rolled.
Taliesin: The one that has the little mark beside it?
Matt: You pull out of your quiver the exploding arrow, which you can see it, it's heavily weighted in the front so you know you have to fire it at a slight arc against most of your arrows that you shoot. So go ahead and roll an attack on this one.
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: What did you roll? Are you serious? As you pull back on your bow, you go to release it, and the string ignites for a second, the arcane fire behind it that you absentmindedly trigger, and as you do you realize at the last minute, the arrow doesn't fire. You actually freak out for a second and release the bow. The arrow falls, the flame hitting the edge of it, and it explodes and detonates right in front of you. Make a reflex saving throw. Sorry, a dexterity saving throw. Oh, Pathfinder. You squeak in every now and then.
Laura: Natural 20!
Taliesin: Now?!
Marisha: Fuck you, dice gods.
Matt: What would have been an explosively painful 38 points of damage is halved.
Taliesin: Well, we know it works.
Matt: So you take 19 points of fire damage, and you're knocked prone.
Taliesin: Now, if only I could have attached that to a donkey, at some point.
Laura: You said 19? Jesus.
Matt: You're knocked flat on your ass.
Liam: That was all of Dungeons and Dragons contained in 30 seconds. (laughter)
Taliesin: For a year, he tried to get me to design an exploding donkey.
Sam: I did.
Matt: That was a little unfortunate. Trinket can still move and finish off the round, if you'd like. That was only one of your attacks.
Laura: All right. Can Trinket run up and fight alongside Grog? All right, he's going to do that.
Matt: Trinket runs up, runs up the ramp, claws out (roars).
Laura: Gets two attacks because of bestial fury. Jeez. Okay, I'm going to roll my Trinket dice now. Don't kill me now. Okay. I don't even know. 16.
Matt: 16 does not hit.
Laura: Cool. 19.
Matt: 19 does hit.
Laura: All right. (fake-cries) Okay. 13.
Matt: 13.
Laura: Does he get Hunter's Mark?
Matt: I would say yes, because he is your bear, I'll let that happen.
Laura: Yes he does! That's another five.
Matt: Nice, so 18 points of damage from Trinket. As Trinket runs up, one claw swings through the air, and as the head rears back, seeing this new bear that's joined the fray, reaches out and clamps onto its throat with its jaws, tearing a chunk of its flesh out.
Travis: Yeah, Trinket!
Matt: All righty. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: I'm going to punch it with Bigby's Hand. I'm going to do Bigby's Hand. And punch it. That's it. Punch. That's my move. Punch.
Matt: (laughs) Good, let me open the spell real fast.
Sam: (singing) It's Bigby's Hand! Bigby's Hand. You know it. Shamone.
Matt: So go ahead and roll a d20 and add your spell attack.
Sam: Add my spell attack?
Matt: Yeah, it should be at the top of your spell page.
Sam: This? Spell attack. 21.
Matt: 21 hits. Go ahead and roll 4d8 points of force damage as the fist slams, clocking one of the hydras in the face.
Sam: 23.
Matt: 23. And with that, you actually punch one of the heads off the hydra. It goes spinning off into the forest.
Laura: Oh, you don't want to punch heads off.
Sam: Hey guys, I got rid of another head! Hey guys, I'm on a roll! Who still hasn't gone? Keyleth, you haven't gone?
Taliesin: I haven't gone and Grog hasn't gone.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to inspire Grog with my bonus action.
Matt: Okay, what do you inspire him with?
Sam: Oh, I'm going to inspire him. (singing) Come on Grog, yeah, you know what I mean. It's time to rage on this hydra...
Matt: A half-hearted d10 to you. (laughs) All right, so. As that finishes your turn. At this point, you see a series of blurs in the nearby bushes.
Sam: Blurs in the bushes!
Laura: Blurs from the bush? What?
Matt: A voice rings out, saying, "Hey! What are you doing?!" And you now see an armored individual come rushing out from behind this tree here, another armored individual rushing from there, a female with a large sword rushing from this side, another character with leather armor, and a robed female coming from behind here. "This is our mark! You're not supposed to take that from us!"
Laura: Well, maybe you should've fought it before we got here!
Matt: "This is against the rules, you skag!"
Orion: Wait, what rules? We don't know the rules!
Marisha: We got here first! Warcraft rules!
Orion: I don't know what that means!
Matt: So this guy runs forward. He can't quite get all the way there, so he's going to sit there. Mage moves out this way and is going to look over at you as you're getting the gun, looks over and reaches out her hand. Go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Taliesin: Oh my god, for the love of-- no!
Travis: What did you roll? Say it!
Taliesin: One.
Orion: Hold on. Wait no, hold on. I peek over and Counterspell.
Matt: You do not have visual on her at all. The trees are in between, unfortunately. As you're on the flying carpet, you see over the shoulder. You go to get your gun-- you're trying to pull out Bad News-- and then your muscles seize and you find yourself held in place.
Sam: Hold Person. Hold Percy.
Matt: The cleric character you see comes forward, holding aloft a holy symbol, and reaches up and suddenly you see the canopy above the hydra begin to glow with a bright orange light before a column of fire slams down into the ground from the heavens.
Sam: On the hydra?
Matt: On the hydra.
Laura: Wait, what about the people that are near the hydra?
Matt: It appears to only be affecting the hydra.
Laura: Ooh.
Sam: Ooh.
Sam: What is that?
Matt: The hydra takes 48 points of damage.
Travis: Four-eight?
Sam: While you were gone, everything happened, by the way. Everything happened.
Travis: We're apparently taking someone's bounty.
Matt: This character runs up, dressed in leather armor, hood, cloak. Runs back, pulling two longswords from underneath the cloak and swings up to strike multiple times. You can see a hawk gliding over, heading in the canopy. Does 12 points of damage with the first strike. The second one, goes to swing and hits the hide and flanks off of it.
Laura: And it explodes in his face and he's knocked prone.
Matt: Sorry. This woman, as she rushes forward, you can see the skin has a pink-reddish tint, these blackened twin horns curl to the back of her head, and she carries a giant greatsword in her hands as she runs in a blur, yelling out this angry war cry. "It's ours!" Runs up and swings towards one of the hydra's heads. First one misses. Second one misses. (whoosh) In her fury and anger and the frustration of currently having apparently a targeted bounty of theirs taken, she swings wildly into the air, missing both strikes. That's going to end their round. All right, that brings us to Grog and Percy. Percy, make a wisdom saving throw.
Taliesin: This is a wisdom modifier plus d20?
Matt: It's whatever your wisdom save is.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: Ones and twenties tonight. So you manage to shrug the effect, but that's your turn. Grog.
Travis: I would like to look to the woman that swung and missed and go, oh, I think you meant to do this. And I'll swing for the body of the hydra.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: And 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Travis: Why didn't I use the stupid dice, but that's okay. 19?
Matt: 19 damage.
Travis: And 11.
Matt: All right. (whack) You hit once again, almost like you're cutting down a tree. You're hitting the same mark you hit last turn, carving a large chunk of the throat out. You can now see the exposed bone underneath, and it's starting to gurgle through its hissing. You bring the axe around with the inertia on the backswing and slam it into the base of another one of the necks. As it slams into it and gets wedged in there, you have to pull it out with a giant spray of blood that actually spatters across the female tiefling, which you now see. Who, as it sprays across her, she licks it off her pointed teeth, and you can see she brings her sword up, ready to go ahead and attack it again. She's glaring at you now with a this-is-mine type expression. Vax.
Liam: All right, so am I still up on the elevated part of the stone?
Matt: You are, yes.
Liam: The one that's occupied with Grog, I'm going to jump on it and cling my legs to the side and try to slice down as I go, over the side wall. Okay. First is a 28. I'll just do that. And it's a sneak attack because it's occupied with Grog, obviously. So that is a two-- this is my Keen Dagger. That's a nine plus... nine, 13, 16, 19, 24. Nine plus 24 is 33, and then the second dagger, Flametongue, nine, ten, 19.
Matt: All right, that does hit.
Liam: Okay, that's a regular old four plus six is ten, and then out comes the Venom Dagger, which has already spit its poison, and that is a 26, which also hits, and that is a four plus six is ten. So (dagger noises) down its neck.
Matt: All right. As you spin over and arc down onto the opposite side there, nice. Well done. I forgot to roll for-- it does resist the poison at the end of its turn, by the way. Though even with the disadvantage it still managed to hit you last turn. All right, cool, so you flip over, arc yourself down after the series of dagger blades, carving these two long, ragged wounds down the side of its body. As you hit on the opposite side, where the stonework is starting to crack a little bit from the impact and swishing about of its physical body.
Liam: Can I ask, do I have a bonus action at this point? I'm hasted, and I've done three attacks. Is there time for a bonus action? I don't know.
Matt: You have an attack, bonus action attack, and then the haste attack.
Liam: Okay, I'm good.
Matt: All right. Keyleth.
Marisha: Should I try and get these fuckers off, or should I just kill the damn thing?
Laura: Attack the hydra.
Marisha: I cast Call Lightning and bring a lightning bolt right down on its head.
Matt: In the same space, you can see there's a burnt hole in the top of the canopy where that fire column came through, there's a slight sizzle of ozone before a giant hammering blow of lightning streaks from the heavens down into the body. You feel a jolt of energy in the daggers. You pull them out instinctively before it manages to make its way to your body. Go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: (whoops) Nine, eight, bringing us to 17. 21 damage.
Matt: 21 damage, nice. All righty. That ends the round. At the top, where the secondary head you blew off was, two more heads sprout out. It now has seven heads.
Sam: Hey guys! There's more heads for me to knock off!
Laura: Hey, that's the best thing ever!
Sam: We get to keep doing it!
Laura: I bet if we keep doing it though, I mean, eventually the heads will outweigh the body and it'll just have to fall over.
Orion: Okay, well. He's 20 feet in radius himself, isn't he? Sweet! I'm going to-- oh, there's a lot of people, though. Who are they? I put my ring out and I'm going to do instantly, quicken spell, do five more SP will bring me down to one sorcerer point, and I'm going to huck two Fireballs right in the center of the hydra.
Matt: Okay. All right.
Orion: But you're off to the side. You're not on it. Are you on it?
Matt: So you're drifting over here? Oh. No, you're just aiming at it. Okay. So. Back-to-back, you used the last of the sorcerer points to fire two Fireballs that explode, one after another. Go ahead and roll damage on both of them.
Orion: 20-- what is that?-- 29, 31, 35, 36, so that's 41.
Matt: 41 for the first one. That's almost straight sixes and fives. That's awesome.
Orion: 34, so that's 39.
Matt: 39. Were you adding five to each of those?
Orion: Yes.
Matt: I don't think you're supposed to do that for Fireball.
Orion: It's any fire attack.
Matt: Oh, that's right, because you have the-- never mind. You do. Yes, that's right. I need a reflex save from Grog and from you, Vax.
Liam: I'm going to do rogue's evasion. I'm going to use Matt Colville's die made of iron from a meteorite.
Sam: From a meteorite?
Liam: Hopefully not die.
Sam: Wait, from a meteorite?!
Taliesin: To be fair, the die didn't dodge the earth.
Liam: What kind of roll is this? Saving throw. I've rolled a 17.
Matt: This is a 20-foot radius.
Laura: So everything in that area?
Liam: Everything in the area. It's done. I rolled a 17. Is that a success or a failure?
Matt: What is the, what's your spell difficulty?
Orion: Spell save? 17.
Matt: 17, so that just makes it for the first one, yes.
Liam: Just makes it. For the first Fireball?
Matt: For the first Fireball, yeah. You avoid that entirely.
Liam: Do I need to roll again? We're all going to roll again in a moment?
Matt: Yep. Roll for the second one now. Because two exploded in a row.
Liam: Oh, now. That is less.
Orion: Oh, hold on a second. Wait. I want to put a pause on this real quick.
Laura: You can't. You already did it!
Orion: I asked the question before I cast the spell. Is the hydra itself 20-foot radius? And I got a nod, so I figured my spell--
Matt: The hydra itself, the creature, it's a 15-foot diameter.
Orion: Diameter.
Matt: A radius is from the outside of it, from the middle.
Orion: Radius is different from diameter? Okay.
Sam: Geometry, kids.
Orion: Well then, it's fine, I'll shift it closer--
Liam: It's done. This is why this is interesting. So I succeeded the first time. I failed the second time, which means I halve whatever the damage is, which is high.
Matt: Okay, you take 18 points of fire damage.
Liam: That's okay.
Matt: Grog? Two saves.
Travis: What am I rolling, sorry?
Sam: You're trying to beat 17.
Travis: Oh, I rolled a 14, plus anything?
Sam: Yeah, you've got inspiration, friend.
Travis: Yeah, I do!
Orion: Plus his what?
Travis: Proficiency or what?
Matt: It's whatever your dex saving throw is.
Travis: Oh. Two. So 16, plus--
Laura: So 18 for the first one.
Travis: 18 for the first one.
Matt: 18. So you take 22 points of fire damage.
Liam: Where did all that math go from the last game?
Travis: Nine.
Sam: Nine?
Travis: Nine.
Taliesin: You can take it.
Travis: Yeah, I got it. I'm all good.
Matt: Here's the other side of it, though. We'll get to it in a second. Nine? You take 39 points of fire damage.
Laura: I don't want to say it, but Trinket's right there.
Matt: Oh yeah. Roll a saving throw for Trinket.
Sam: No, remember? I said leave Trinket behind?
Laura: Yeah, I know you said that, but he also attacked him already.
Matt: Roll a saving throw for Trinket.
Liam: Come on, Trinket die. Oh my god. Okay.
Laura: Don't say it.
Liam: No, it's good.
Laura: 17 for the first one.
Matt: Okay, that just makes it. So Trinket takes 22 fire damage. All right, and then the second one?
Marisha: I'm eating so much sugar, compulsively, out of nerves.
Laura: It's stuck in there.
Liam: Oh wow, it's not either, it's really on an angle.
Laura: It was really on an angle. That's unfortunate because one of them was good, and one of them sucked.
Matt: So what did you roll?
Laura: Seven.
Matt: Seven, all right. So with the explosion, both explode out of the way. You both manage to avoid the brunt of the damage. Trinket falls unconscious on the ground, the smell of burnt hair. The hydra looks rough. However, the individuals also nearby that came in are also blasted back by the Fireball. Everyone but the cleric and the mage in there are hit with the double explosions. Everyone taking full damage except for him, who takes half on the first one. They all of a sudden look around, dazed and frustrated.
Sam: Yeah, we just set off a nuke on the thing.
Matt: The hydra, due to the fiery impact, collapses inside the stone structure.
Sam: Dead?
Marisha: Dead?
Matt: Dead. So how do you want to do this?
Marisha: Our kill!
Orion: Oh my god.
Liam: With casualties.
Orion: Before the last one reaches it, I actually cast really hard Control Flame. It totally doesn't work this way, but I do it anyway. You bastard, I didn't mean to do this! And I'm going to hammer like I did with Flaming Sphere when we were playing in private.
Matt: I'll say you do this. You set off the first Fireball. As it explodes and damages everyone in the radius, it blows one of the throats of the hydra apart. The heads are now caught on fire. As you take the second Fireball, you set it off, shouting that outward. You use Control Flame at the same time as the Telekinesis you're still maintaining to envelop the explosion of the Fireball and contain it in the center. You slam it and let it detonate as part of the impact into the torso, where the heads are currently attached. You end up blowing half the heads off the hydra in the process. The rest of its body's trying to keep itself standing up. However, the explosion itself sent the stone wall around you guys broken into pieces and shards now sticking upward. The hydra backs up and falls onto its side, impaling itself on the shattered stone wall that you had kept up as it slowly slides down on the wound and gurgles out its last life breath, the rest of its body on fire, slowly sinking to the base of the stone wall.
Orion: That was really cool.
Travis: Who can heal really a lot really fast?
Laura: Trinket! I get up and run over to Trinket and hold his little head in my hands.
Marisha: Who's bad?
Travis: Trinket's unconscious.
Taliesin: Trinket's unconscious.
Marisha: I run up to Trinket and I cast Cure Wounds on Trinket in a 3rd-level spell slot.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Help him!
Travis: He's going to be fine.
Matt: As you guys rush up--
Liam: Yeah, Vax is rolling down the corpse of the hydra to stand in front of these strangers.
Travis: I've rushed to Trinket's side, too, from where I'm at.
Matt: All right. You're right at Trinket's side. You're flying in here.
Sam: I get closer and do the Superbowl shuffle in front of our new visitors, like, yeah, that's what we did.
Marisha: Trinket heals for 21 damage.
Matt: Trinket gets up, charred but okay.
Marisha: Who else is bad?
Matt: Trinket looks over at Tiberius and gives you a glare.
Marisha: I use it again for Vax. Ooh, that's better.
Travis: I rolled two hit dice--
Matt: Well, you aren't at a short rest yet. Because right now, as you guys are just standing there, the rest of the other party is now stepping up to you. The main human you now see in armor. He has dirty blond short hair, little bit of stubble on the chin, very well-armored, and the armor itself looks like it's taken a beating. He steps up and says, "All right. I'm going to ask you a question. What the fuck are you doing?!"
Liam: I think we're killing a hydra. What are you doing today?
Matt: "Fulfilling my contract."
Sam: Oh, by not killing the hydra? Because that's what you just did.
Liam: Listen, we don't know what the fuck you're doing. Take the hydra. We're not here for a bounty; we're trying to help the city.
Laura: Well, no, give us the money.
Marisha: We did want some proof.
Matt: He looks back to the rest of the group and the cleric steps forward and touches his shoulder for a second. Shrugs it off and says, "No! No. Skags that wander these lands, taking creatures from underneath those who are lawfully permitted to hunt these beasts and take that bounty, and that makes you breakers of the law of Vasselheim."
Sam: What's your name, sir?
Matt: Turns over and looks toward you, takes a couple steps forward, leaping off of the broken stonework on this side. "Aldor. And I work for the Slayer's Take, those of us that are empowered to hunt contracted bounty-given beasts and creatures in this land. You have gone out and laid claim to a beast that you had no lawful right to."
Laura: Well, the Bastion up on the wall said we could, so that's why we did it.
Marisha: While all of this is going down, I'm going to casually walk over and open my little harvesting book and start harvesting some hydra blood.
Matt: As you attempt to do that, the mage walks up and goes, "I wouldn't recommend that." You can see her elven face, there is a glare of frustration and standoffishness that is very sincere. "Do not step closer."
Travis: I'd put your hand down. You see, I had a horrible day yesterday, and unless you want to end up like puppy-dog here, we'll all end up in a big pile of blood, unless you find a way to split your take with us, and maybe let us go on our way. You see, we're new in these parts, and we have a habit for killing.
Matt: "Who would pay you?"
Laura: What do you mean?
Matt: "Where were you going to take this creature for the bounty you keep speaking of?"
Liam: Which one is talking?
Matt: This is Aldor, the same human fighter.
Laura: Aldor, they told us we could kill it and then give the heads and then bring it in and then they would give us money...
Sam: We didn't think this through. Listen. Let's level with you. This whole escapade was not very well thought out. We're new in town. We don't want to step on any toes. We did you a solid; we killed your thing. Let's calm it down a notch and let's just talk, shall we?
Laura: Why don't you just tell people you killed it, we helped, you get the money, you give us half of it, and we call it even?
Liam: Otherwise, we're going to go right now.
Matt: He laughs to himself and looks back at the rest of them and says, "You have to understand. The Slayer's Take's contracts are binding. Magically. If we don't take this creature in after dealing the killing blow, we're at an impasse with the Slayer's Take."
Laura: Oh. Can you stab it right now? Maybe it's still breathing?
Liam: Can anybody heal it? Can you kill it again?
Matt: The cleric steps forward, this human cleric, older, whitish hair. Steps forward, his mace at his side, armor currently spattered with hydra blood, looking a little charred, but for the most part okay. He says, "Okay. Before this gets out of hand, perhaps if you come with us to the Slayer's Take, there would be a possibility of us still enacting this contract if we find a way to magically bind you to it. Now, mind you, I don't know how the funds would be legally distributed; however, if you talked to the leader of our order, perhaps there could be some sort of a resolution to this."
Sam: What funds are we talking about, here? What was the contract that you had been binded by?
Matt: They look at each other and take a step back defensively and say, "We don't discuss money matters out in the open where it's so easy for bodies to be hidden."
Travis: Who is this leader of yours?
Matt: "The one that you're looking for... is on the other page." (laughter)
Sam: Aldor is no longer talking, right?
Laura: No, Sean Connery's talking now. I'm sorry.
Matt: "The Huntmaster." (laughter)
Sam: That's your leader?
Liam: I suddenly remembered my Charlemagne.
Matt: "Are you taunting me?"
Liam: I'm sorry. Not at all. Listen, we were about to come to blows. You and I are going to work this out. Words are mightier than the sword, right?
Sam: Don't ever do that again.
Travis: What if we return, saying that you had acquired our services in the killing of this beast?
Sam: We were subcontracted to you, yes.
Matt: "The only way that would work is if you were contracted to the Slayer's Take beforehand, which if you were to agree to be inducted, perhaps that would alleviate the concern. We could then write you into the contract magically, share the funds, even, and you would be free to accept contracts to kill creatures at your leisure."
Travis: I'm sorry, a little clarification. We get paid to kill?
Matt: "We're not out here for fun." At which point the tiefling female behind him says, "Hah, say that yourself. I'm out here for both." She flicks her sword and the blood across the ground.
Travis: Are you in the company or know of Siren?
Matt: They all look at each other. "She's been known to do work with the Slayer's Take, yes."
Travis: Yeah, I'm definitely in.
Sam: Introduce yourselves, if you don't mind.
Matt: "Let's do that as we walk." At which point the cleric says, "Take the heads, cleave them off. We'll take them back as trophies to prove the contract is sealed." The leader, Aldor, says, "Very well. Clean your weapons. No funny business. A single moment of your eyes wandering to your blade. I don't want it to have to come to blows. Let's carve up this creature."
Sam: Oh, what will you do to us? What you did to the hydra? Oh no! Not kill us.
Matt: "I really, really don't like you."
Sam: Few people do.
Liam: You don't have to worry about that. We're out here helping the city for the sake of good, not earning a paycheck.
Laura: I mean, I was going to ask them for a paycheck immediately after we'd gone back to the city, but you know.
Liam: That's how you roll.
Matt: "There's a very lucrative trade on monster-hunting in these woods, but you have to make sure that you're certified. Otherwise, you're taking money and food out of the mouths of us and our families."
Liam: Certification is key.
Matt: "Come on. Gather up the creature's bits." And they all go to start carving into the body of the hydra.
Laura: Ooh, can we help?
Marisha: Now I start doing my thing.
Liam: I've got the naughty bits.
Marisha: Do I need to roll for this?
Matt: You don't have to, actually. The group are very well trained, and as you go to try to, the tiefling puts her hand down and starts tearing pieces out. There's a dominance, a standoff here.
Laura: Can I have a scale? Just one more scale?
Marisha: I want some stuff.
Sam: It's all right. We'll get it and we'll figure it out when we get there.
Matt: There seems to be a general feel here that you've already broken the law enough. If you really want to fight for it, you can.
Liam: Let's quit while we're ahead.
Sam: Yeah, let's deal with the naughty bits later.
Matt: It takes about half an hour or so to reap the bits and pieces, then again making your way back, after you've pushed the remainder of the body into the pool itself, letting it slowly sink to the bottom. You all make your way back the path you came in an awkward, quiet march.
Laura: Oh, you guys set that bait out. You guys killed that ape, didn't you?
Matt: Aldor gives you a look. "Good to know we aren't the only trackers in this town."
Taliesin: That's so clever. Clever girl.
Matt: Eventually make your way back to town, skirt around the outer wall to one of the three main gates, this one right on the outskirts of the Braving (stutters). Too many creatures. Braving Grounds. The gates open. You're all led in, first question at the sight of you guys, but Aldor raises his hand and says, "No, they're with us; it's fine." You all walk in, leads you to the outskirts of the Braving Grounds to a new area of the town you have yet to travel to. At which point, he introduces, "Welcome to the Quad Roads. This is where the Slayer's Take makes its place. This is also where the Erathis's Crown is. Best you pay an homage to the deity of civilization while here." He pulls out a small gem around his neck with a small symbol on it, kisses it, and puts it back in his shirt. You guys continue walking to what is now, you can see these large roads that streak across. You've seen them join with the other sections. This is the most central of all the various districts of the city of Vasselheim. There is a very large trade bazaar structure not that far out of the main gate that leads to the center of this district. You can see barkers shouting out left and right to you, various phrases dealing with food and various crops, and creature fresh meat. "Fresh meat out of the Abundance! Takers of the Abundance!" And people yelling out for general goods, packs, leathers, large carts being wheeled past you, until eventually you make your way to what looks like a very old, dark-wood lodge, about three stories high, decorated with dozens of tusks and claws and other trophies that look as old as the building itself. A carved wooden sign stands bolted to the top of the porch that says "Slayer's Take Guildhall" in the common tongue. Approaching the door, still that awkward quiet keeping over the group, there is an engraving into the doorway-- it's pushed into the wood-- that reads, "Here is where the hunters gather, keen eyes and blades at ready. We cease the unknown's cackling laughter. Our will is strong, our members plenty. We stand against the tide of darkness. We do the deeds few men can handle. Reap forth a trophy from the carcass. We are your strength, we are your candle." Aldor does a knock on the door. The door opens, an eye looks through, and the door swiftly opens as another individual who's dressed in a makeshift leather and hide armor steps aside. You're all let in, carrying the large hydra heads through that have been gathering looks from the individuals watching you charge through the streets. To the center of the room, you see what looks to be amongst the loose cast-iron candelabras that are affixed to the rafters, small candles flicker for the interior light, you see a long desk where a halfling male of muscular build sits eagerly rubbing his hands together, his harsh features and light scars dotting his face and hands, his red hair showing tinges of grey. His shifting smile belies a youthful vigor as you approach with the trophies. "Aldor! Welcome back. How goes that bleeding mess-headed beast? I see you seem to have dropped it before you." Aldor takes the first head that he's carrying and chucks it to the ground. As it rolls across with two large thuds, the rest of the congealed liquid seeping into the wood. "Aye, that's true, but we bring a bit of an obstruction in the way." Glances to the rest of you. "Obstruction, you say. Okay. Well, this is a curious phrase. Please explain to me what has occurred in your outing on this contract." Aldor scratches the side of his face. "Well, it seems that we have a group of skags."
Laura: Not intentional. Skags.
Matt: "Not intentional skags out of the forest, intending to hunt and managed to deal the killing blow to our mark."
Orion: Actually, I did that.
Matt: "This one did it." He wipes some of the soot off his face. "Amongst other issues."
Orion: Sorry. My aim was off.
Liam: We've come from Emon. We're not exactly familiar with the customs and traditions of your city. We were merely trying to help. My friend may have slaughtered the hydra-- unintentionally, of course. We're hoping to somehow fit into your society. Not sure how that works. Maybe you can help?
Matt: The halfling walks from behind his desk with his hands behind his back. (laughs) "You come from Emon. You are not familiar with Vasselheim, yet the first thing you do upon arriving is leap down to the Vesper Timberland, fighting a freaking hydra."
Laura: It was attacking the wall. We were protecting you.
Liam: A hydra attacking your city. We were merely following our conscience.
Matt: "No, this is okay. I like the balls you all have. This is ridiculous, what you've done."
Laura: I have enormous balls.
Marisha: Yep, we both do.
Liam: See? They're massive.
Matt: He steps away. "Lady. I appreciate your brashness, but I would hope that you also act like a lady."
Marisha: Oh.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: That's a high standard.
Liam: Careful where you're walking, little man.
Matt: "All I say is I appreciate-- yes, your bear is quite fierce."
Laura: He's got giant balls, as well.
Matt: He reaches past and looks to the wall and you see there are two dire bear heads affixed to the wall of various ancient degrees.
Marisha: Don't look, Trinket. Don't look.
Matt: "Well. I can see that you may have breached the contract here, and there may be ways of perhaps rectifying this, should you take the pledge. The pledge itself is a process, one that I myself cannot specifically judge upon. This would have to go to my boss, the Headmaster. My wife." (laughter)
Liam: I feel you.
Travis: Respect.
Matt: "I will see if she is available. One moment." And the halfling patters off down a hallway.
Liam: That is fucking awesome.
Laura: That would be amazing.
Matt: Came back a few moments later. "She would like to see the skags now."
Sam: What is with skags? Just call us people, please?
Travis: We have a name. Vox Machina.
Liam: Perhaps you've heard of us.
Laura: Remember it.
Matt: "I have heard of it not before. I will call you this upon you making the pledge. Until then, you are a group of forest-walking skags."
Sam: All right.
Matt: You follow him into the back hallway, down past a series of doors, some of which are half-open and ajar. You see what appear to be bunks or rooms for rest. There are some shields and various old weapons set up as decor against the wooden hallways. Down to a large, heavy door that looks like it's actually, the red leather stretched across it, nailed across all parts of the doorway, with a branded symbol in the center. The same symbol that you saw adorning the, almost like a relief behind the Slayer's Take lodge entranceway sign. As the door opens, the halfling pushing it aside. "Please, enter. She would like to talk to you." As you guys all step inside, the interior, a soft, glowing magical torch lights the room from the ceiling. The entire room is a large office or study. There are books and meticulously kept scrolls. At a glance, you can see they break down various creature types, that talk about indigenous bestial creatures, some talk about the anatomy of mythical and mystical beasts. This is a research facility for the hunting of any such creature that would find its way near or in the vicinity of Vasselheim. There, waiting for you, not at her desk, but leaning against it, with her hands also at her back, similar to her husband, you see before you in very finely crafted dark brown and black studded leather armor, a small shoulder cloak fixed and tossed over one shoulder, tousled short brown hair, deep purple skin. The second tiefling you've seen today. This woman stands with bright white eyes, no pupil. Her tongue flickers out of her mouth like a snake a little bit as you enter. And she looks about the rest of the party. "Please. It would be my pleasure to talk with you for a moment about what you have done this day. Thank you, husband." The door slams shut behind him.
Laura: You two make an adorable couple.
Sam: Yeah, he's a peach. Good find.
Matt: "Welcome, skags. You seem to not be liking this title. A skag is an affectionate term we use for those who break our rules and will go to prison, perhaps beneath the Amaranthine Oubliette."
Sam: Well, as long as it's affectionate.
Liam: We understand we've broken the letter of your law, but perhaps not the spirit of your law, which is maybe more important.
Matt: "Which is why you are here and not currently being taken for the hall of judgment."
Liam: We're very grateful.
Matt: "Now. My husband said you have interfered with a contract that has already been enacted."
Sam: We didn't know we were interfering with it at the time. We thought we were just doing good, and we're here to make right by that.
Liam: We're tourists, basically.
Matt: "Which is also why you are not at the hall yet. He also said you showed interest in joining our ranks to avoid this prosecution, which I think is a very smart move." And she walks behind her desk and sits down. "Should you be cut out for our work, that is. You have proven to have slain this hydra with the accompaniment of one of our roving bands of monster hunters."
Laura: They didn't do much, but yes.
Sam: We're quite capable fighters. Grog here almost won in his fight the other night. Sorry, Grog.
Matt: "You're the one that nearly felled the Hammer."
Travis: I am.
Marisha: So you have heard of us.
Matt: "I've heard of this one."
Sam: Show her the lip.
Travis: I kept a keepsake.
Matt: (laughs) "A fine trophy. Do not show him you still have that. I don't think it would go over too well. Now. Most applicants for our humble family make it maybe a month or two before the Vesper Timberlands take them. Those that remain, well. They prove worthy of our business contracts. You are all on trial by deed, under my claim and authority. Should you agree and fulfill my request, indeed, you will be absolved of your infractions against the Slayer's Take and be given membership to our age-old tradition. With membership comes with access to our lodge, food, room and board, and training facilities. Simple arms can also be provided. Those that bear our insignia may also get a discount of supplies at most of Vasselheim's merchants. Most importantly, though, you will then have access to our bounty contracts. To specify, we don't just hunt beasts and creatures. A large part of what we do is harvest from our marks' requested components. Blood, eyes, teeth, organs. We receive orders from all across Exandria, from as far as even the city Emon, which you apparently hail from."
Laura: We have a keep there.
Matt: "How nice for you."
Sam: Greyskull.
Matt: "I will make a note of it." And she reaches over and grabs a quill and not even looking at the paper, just scribbles.
Liam: We're friends with the emperor, thank you.
Matt: "Well, perhaps this emperor and many of these scholars or seers or mages you've encountered have ordered from us specifically required components, for you see, the most powerful of magics within nations require a focus or sacrifice of some kind. Many of these require pieces of these creatures. So many contracts are from very high-paying clients that have better things to do with their time than wander skulking about the forest, seeking such things as a hydra. There's a lot of money to be gained should you be up for it. I would ask you to take a contract, complete it, and return. That is all. You would have three days to do so. Do you accept?"
Sam: What is involved in signing or binding this contract?
Matt: "There is a small ritual that binds you to the contract. Within this time it must be completed. Should you fail, the contract is absolved, and your membership is revoked."
Sam: Oh, it's a trial just to bind the contract?
Matt: "Your trial is to take the contract and you have three days to complete it."
Taliesin: Is there a payout on this contract?
Matt: "Oh yes, you will still receive the money for it, and with membership, from what I have been told by my husband, possibly even share in the bounty for this hydra you helped slay earlier on this day."
Laura: That's good, because otherwise they didn't get any credit, right? Because it was like, magically--
Matt: "Precisely. Also a part of the three-day contract, with three days before it is null and void."
Liam: We've taken out a beholder and a handful of illithid. We're not really worried about your contract. Give us your contract; we'll sign it.
Matt: She chuckles under her breath. "That is good to know," she says disbelievingly.
Sam: There's an insignia that we get? Is it given to us on some sort of jacket for members only? (laughter)
Matt: She reaches to part of her shoulder pauldron, lifts it up, and you can see there's a brand on the side of her arm.
Sam: My body's a temple. I don't like that.
Matt: "Then perhaps you'd like the judgment."
Sam: The judgment? Oh no, no. Do I have to get branded?
Matt: "It does not hurt much."
Sam: (whimpers) I'm really wimpy.
Matt: "Gnomes... Three days. Will you accept?"
Laura: Yeah, let's do it. We're totally tough.
Sam: Could you do mine in henna? (laughter)
Matt: "I will take that as an acceptance on your part, as well."
Sam: Thank you. Yes. I'm with my group.
Matt: "Good, good. Now, I trust you work well as a team, but I am curious how well you work with others. As this is a test, I will be dividing your band between two contracts."
Liam: Ex-squeeze me?
Matt: "Two teams."
Sam: Do we get to pick the teams?
Matt: "You, gnome. Giant. Ranger. Tinkerer. You will form the first team."
Laura: What?
Liam: That is bullshit.
Matt: "You will be taking your contract with a couple of other hopeful possible members, as well. Three days to fulfill. Now, cutthroat. Dragonborn. Vine-speaker. You will form the other team."
Laura: Does my bear get to come with me?
Matt: "Your bear is allowed, yes. I shall now look over our extending contracts to decide your test for tomorrow. Go. Return in the morning fed, armed, and ready to set out. And hopefully get affiliated with your journeymen members. Now, be gone. I have business to do."
Laura: Wait, no. We work as a pair. Maybe you don't know that about us.
Matt: "Oh, then this should prove a very interesting test."
Liam: You don't understand, we haven't been apart in about--
Laura: Ever.
Matt: "Life is hard here in Vasselheim. Deal with disappointment."
Liam: Oh, I'm sorry. What was your name again?
Matt: "I am known as the Huntmaster around these parts. But should you wish the name in its full, Huntmaster Vanessa Cyndrial."
Liam: Thank you. Vanessa... Shitmaster...
Travis: Don't. I grab him and I start walking out of the room.
Sam: Vanessa?
Matt: "Cyndrial. C-Y-N-D-R-I-A-L."
Sam: I am not going to spell that right.
Matt: "In the morning  fed, armed, and ready." Knocks the desk twice. Her husband closes the door behind you. You take a deep breath and realize this will be a very interesting challenge.
Marisha: Husband? Do you have a name other than husband?
Matt: (laughs) "They call me Mertin, yes."
Marisha: Mertin?
Matt: "Mertin Cyndrial, yes."
Sam: Mertin Cyndrial... Well, this should be interesting. We'll set off on our journey right away, then.
Travis: When do we get our brand?
Sam: After we complete the task.
Matt: Taps his nose and points. "You catch on quick. This bodes very well for you, possibly."
Sam: Have a good three days.
Travis: Can we stay in the guildhall while we're waiting?
Matt: "You are not members. Soon, though. When one's brand is achieved, as much as you like."
Sam: All right, Grog. Let's go.
Laura: Question, husband. Is there a way to change those little pairings that she made? Perhaps get my brother and I on the same team?
Matt: (laughs) "Trust me, there's no way to change my wife's mind. I've tried." (laughter)
Matt: He walks off. And we'll conclude the session for the evening there.
Liam: Eat a bag of dicks. [end of transcript]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Good evening, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. My name is Matthew Mercer. I am the dungeon master for the show, and we're excited to have you. A couple of cool things about this, for those who are checking in or aren't aware of what's going on: our main party, Vox Machina, has been split for two different trials. We'll get into that story in a little bit, but because of that, we have some guests playing. This will be the second week of our two fantastic guests, Wil Wheaton and Will Friedle. We're excited about them. They're pretty nice. This is the second week of the Wills; we're excited to have them. Also, do we have any other announcements anyone wants to talk about? Anything crazy coming up?
Marisha: Speaking of the Wills, just to talk about the first two giveaways that we reached. That's it. Once it hits the board, it's done. It's like the American flag. These are TableTop nail wrap-specific.
Wil: Oh yeah, these are from our friends at Espionage Cosmetics.
Marisha: Yes, these are Espionage Cosmetics nail wraps, and they're actual TableTop--
Wil: Yeah, they're official licensed TableTop merchandise that we made happen. I'm very happy.
Marisha: So yes. Wear the support on your fingertips.
Wil: I have two announcements. Announcement the first: for the next four hours and 56 minutes, Pacific Time, I am the King of the Internet because I won yesterday on @Midnight.
Matt: Congratulations!
Wil: Also, Hardwick hipped me to this movie that I want everybody to see, so I'm telling everyone I know about it, and I won't shut up about it. It's called What We Do in the Shadows. It is a comedy that is a documentary about a group of vampires who live together in a house in Wellington, New Zealand.
Matt: Oh wait, is this the one that has Jemaine Clement in it?
Wil: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, I've heard of this.
Wil: It is one of the most amazing, hilarious, pitch-perfect, well-done genre comedy and horror films I have ever seen. It is a delight, and I want everyone to watch it because I'm afraid it's not going to get the attention it deserves.
Will: This is a new movie? This isn't something from years ago?
Wil: From this year, yeah.
Matt: This episode sponsored by What We Do-- no, I'm kidding.
Orion: Tomorrow, Friday, on Gather Your Party, I had a thumbtack comedy buddy, Alex Lewis, and Keith Habersberger--
Matt: That's not a real name.
Orion: I know. From Buzzfeed. Together, they are Lewberger, and they're going to be playing here, and I'm going to be doing some songs with them and performing with them, as well. Check it out for Gather Your Party tomorrow. What time is that, sorry Zac?
Zac: 7 00PM.
Orion: 7 00PM.
Matt: Tomorrow. Wondrous.
Liam: I would like to announce that I am nervous as shit.
Matt: Why? I can't imagine why you would be.
Wil: Is it because you're sitting so close to me that you're worried that you're not going to roll anything well tonight?
Liam: No. I should feel comfortable that you're going to soak it all up.
Wil: Look, you're the regular. I'm the guest star. I can die, and it's fine.
Will: It's not fine.
Wil: It doesn't matter. No, it'll be dramatic and great. I plan to sacrifice my life for someone in this group who deserves it.
Zac: Spoilers!
Marisha: Hopefully you don't fail at that, too.
All: Oh!
Wil: Not for you!
Will: Wow.
Wil: Not for you. No, not for you!
Will: It's a hug-worthy moment. This is a good day.
Marisha: Only because of the dice, not because of your choices.
Wil: Too late!
Liam: Come on, guys. Just like we did in rehearsals. (laughter)
Marisha: So 826LA, our charity. Everyone should go check them out; they have amazing storefronts in cities all across the country. The one here is themed after time travel in Echo Park. And also in Marina Del Rey; that's the other city that I'm trying to think of. But yes, a portion of all of our donations go to them, and they're amazing, so thank you so much. And thank you for everyone who has donated in the past. We love you. And I think we are going to be doing a video. I know I've been saying that for a while, but we have a date scheduled now! It is happening. We have a way for everyone to get back in town, but it's going to happen, and we're going to have a field trip.
Matt: Yeah, to 826 and deliver all your wonderful donations. Last announcement I have to make. Let's see. The wonderful folks at Midnight Syndicate-- for those who don't know who they are, they make fantastic music and soundtrack tracks. They've done an official DND soundtrack years ago, and they've done stuff for World of Darkness and Call of Cthulhu. They do great atmospheric music. They finally got back to me, and they gave me permission to use their songs on this feed, so my playlist expands even further. They're really cool guys.
Marisha: How long ago did you send that e-mail?
Matt: That was a while back. It was before we started the stream. But they responded, and they've been really cool about it, and if you're looking for your own soundtrack stuff to work on, they have a great array of stuff. I highly recommend checking out Midnight Syndicate.
Will: Are you still trying to get Queen, too?
Matt: I'm trying, but Freddie hasn't returned my e-mails.
Wil: Hey, guys? This is weird. He's not going to return your emails. No. He's not a fan.
Liam: He's more into Shadowrun.
Wil: He's really a Shadowrun guy.
Matt: That's okay, Shadowrun's cool.
Wil: Very much a Shadowrun guy.
Orion: I played that on Genesis.
Liam: We need to build bleachers back here. We've got this thing.
Matt: We lost Wheaton.
Will: All right, so now we got a shot!
Liam: Well, step into camera if you're going to make such a big to-do. Come in and say hi, and then get out. You already pulled Wil out of the picture.
Matt: Thorbir died really fast tonight. Yay, we got a Laura!
Wil: And by the way, unlike Thorbir, I did not trip over anything or fall down trying to go down one step.
Matt: That's true.
Wil: Just so we don't mistake the actor for the character.
Matt: Indeed. There's a distinction. It is a creative character. No buckets were harmed in the announcement here. All right, so. I think if we're all ready, let's go ahead--
Wil: Oh, I don't have a pencil.
Matt: You don't have a pencil? I'm going to throw a pencil at you.
Wil: Throw a pencil at me, dungeon master!
Matt: I mean, gingerly hand it to our fantastic overlord, who will deliver it.
Marisha: Oh, are we going into our intro?
Matt: Yeah, so let's go ahead and get ready to play ourselves some Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. As we left off last time, to give you a little backstory: Vox Machina, put into some sort of legal trouble in the city of Vasselheim, found themselves breaking a contract for a guild called the Slayer's Take that was essentially a monster hunters' guild, and all kills near the city of this magnitude required approval. So to make sure they weren't sent to the seat of judgment to essentially be arrested and/or tried for this infraction they didn't realize they made, they were given the opportunity to actually join the guild, which they chose to do. However, as part of joining it, they had to go through a small trial, in which the party was split and had to go off to their own smaller contracts. One half had journeyed through with our guests Mary Elizabeth McGlynn and Felicia Day, and they went after a white dragon. They were awesome. Everyone survived, barely. It was pretty rough. And this adventuring party met as the second contract and were given the task to seek out and destroy and harvest pieces from a rakshasa, a demonic entity that stems from the Nine Hells and apparently was somewhere in the city masquerading as the assistant to the owner of the Velvet Cabaret, an establishment for upper-class pleasure-seekers. The party, after essentially forcing this individual to reveal themself, the rakshasa fled through a tunnel underneath its room into a long subterranean tunnel fraught with traps that were set to protect it. The party managed to avoid these rather deftly until the steady decline of the hallway, combined with the increasing moisture and scent of refuse, caused a slick surface, and our fantastic cleric, Brother Kashaw, slipped and fell down. Two party members, Keyleth and Tiberius, decided it'd be a fun time to go slip-n-sliding, joined him at the bottom of the tunnel, where Thorbir and Vax stayed at the top, shaking their heads with frustration. Upon splashing down into what appeared to be some sort of underground cistern or a collection of compost and refuse that had been just rotting food and all kinds of nasty stuff, the party pulled themselves up, nearly waist-deep in this nasty substance. Began to hear skittering and screeching sounds throughout the room-- hundreds of small ones-- while two large thorny tentacles jettisoned out of this, call it a dung heap if you want, and pulled itself to the surface, with a central body filled with teeth and one giant toothy maw. And that was where we left off. So. In the nature of that, I would like everyone to roll initiative.
Wil: Even those of us that are very quietly walking slowly? Okay.
Matt: You can continue slowly on your turn, if you'd like. That's entirely up to you.
Will: Natural 20! Plus two.
Marisha: Good start.
Orion: I'll take it. That's 20 for me.
Wil: Well, I guess that just leaves me, then.
Marisha: Come on, Wil.
Wil: Two. (laughter)
Matt: And they're off!
Will: We pick up where we left off.
Liam: We never left.
Will: MIT is just going, come on.
Matt: As a note, because I forgot, guys. For subs tonight, every hundred subscribers we get, one person in the chat will be chosen to win a signed cast picture and a signed poster of one of our artists, Kit Buss's wonderful art pieces for Critical Role, signed by us, as well.
Marisha: And Espionage Cosmetic nail wraps!
Matt: So we got some cool giveaways. Forgot that at the top. Anyway. 20 and up?
Will: 22.
Orion: 20.
Matt: All right. Ten to 15?
Liam: 13.
Matt: 13? All right.
Wil: I don't know if you have numbers low enough. Two.
Matt: Keyleth, what do you have?
Marisha: Six.
Matt: Six, okay. All right. As the skittering seems to go to a fervored frenzy, you can see masses and masses of extremely matted fur moving and quivering through this refuse as a series of rat swarms pour out of the edges of this giant dung pile. And where at the center that giant entity has revealed itself to be a terrifying visage of some kind. I'm going to have you go ahead and roll an arcana check.
Orion: 22.
Matt: 22. Immediately, as soon as this creature comes out (squelch), this horrible guttural bubbling sound its throat makes as it pulls itself out of this nasty collection of refuse. You've read of this in quite a few tomes before in your travels. This is known as an otyugh.
Orion: A what?
Matt: An otyugh.
Orion: Oh. Nasty things, these otyughs.
Matt: Usually riddled with disease, they're controlled garbage disposals for those that can keep control of them. And it is Kashaw's turn.
Will: Do we get to know how dangerous they are to us?
Matt: You currently have no idea.
Will: Are these creatures dangerous to us?
Orion: Yes.
Will: So should we just try to get rid of everything right now, then, as it were?
Orion: They're not even there yet.
Will: They're not with us at all yet, are they?
Matt: About 15 feet up, you can see the opening of the tunnel where you guys slipped out, and you have no visual sight of the rest of your party-- which, you guys were left in darkness, by the way. You can see. You have dim light, so you're fine.
Orion: Whatever you do, don't go up next to it right now.
Will: Yeah, can I cast some light? Turn on some light and see what we can see down there?
Matt: Well, he still has his Light spell.
Will: Oh, we're still lit up? Oh, okay. Good.
Matt: You can see this creature now. (growls)
Will: Okay. Now, is there any chance that any kind of spell that I cast could hurt them, even though we can't see where they are?
Matt: It depends on the spell's radius. If it's relatively small, then probably not. They're not even within visual range, so you'd really have to try hard to hit them at this point.
Will: And how about the rest of us, though? How close are we to this thing and this cylinder?
Matt: You guys are all about ten feet away from this giant creature right now.
Will: Yeah, that's a pretty tight thing. Okay. You know what, I think I'm going to try to at least slow this thing down as much as I can before everybody else gets down here. I think that's the best thing to do is just slow it down. I'd like to cast Sacred Flame.
Matt: Sacred Flame.
Wil: Kash money.
Marisha: (laughs) Kash money.
Matt: (laughs) Kash money. All right, so go ahead and look at the spell. What's it require from you?
Will: Let's see, it's one action.
Matt: Okay, so the target makes a dexterity saving throw. Let's see if it makes this. What is your spell DC?
Will: My spell DC?
Matt: Should be at the top of your spell list.
Will: Where is that? Oh, I see what you're saying. Yeah, okay. It's a 16.
Matt: 16. Okay, it does not make it. As you bring out your holy symbol for a moment from beneath your armor, you look forward and thrust your spear forward. This energy travels from the middle of your torso, across your arm, down the spear, and fires off as this burst of vibrant whitish-blue light that blasts into the front of this otyugh creature. You deal 3d8 damage to it. So go ahead and roll eight-sided dice three times.
Will: Eight. Now we need the full set, right?
Marisha: Wait, they're all here. Here's an eight.
Will: All right, I got the eight here.
Wil: If you need to roll a one, you can use one of mine.
Marisha: Wait, that's a ten. That's a ten-sider. This one.
Will: So three, right? Here we go.
Marisha: Big money, no whammies.
Will: That's all right. Eight and five and four.
Marisha: That's really good.
Matt: Eight and five and four. 17 damage. (impact, growling) You can see now it has the two giant tentacles with these jagged spines that look covered in whatever it's been climbing in and this one central stalk that has eyes across it, and the eyes flicker in pain and wince and then focus in on you and looks across your companions. Do you wish to move, or do you want to stay where you are?
Will: Yeah, I would like to move. Once I've struck, I'd like to get at least a little bit farther away from it to try to distract it from the opening where these guys might be coming down, so the opposite side of the opening where these guys might drop in.
Matt: Okay, so you can try and move closer this way, probably. You're now adjacent to one of the rat swarms, but you're pulling it away from the entrance here.
Liam: Are they rats or are they ROUS's?
Matt: It looks like normal-sized rats. Not that you would know, because you're not in the room, but there's clusters and clusters of these rats swarming over each other.
Will: Were any of them affected at all by the Sacred Flame?
Matt: No, it's just the singular target, but if you have things that hit larger areas, they can hit multiple guys. That ends your turn. Next up is Tiberius.
Orion: I can move first, right?
Matt: You can, yes.
Orion: I'll move around next to Kashaw.
Matt: Next to him? Okay, you will get free strikes from both the rat swarms, currently, because you'll be passing through there and out of their melee range. You cool with that?
Orion: No, I'm not. Can I take a step back?
Matt: You can. This guy will still get an attack of opportunity on you.
Orion: Really? I thought I could move five feet.
Matt: You can use an action to disengage.
Orion: Okay. I won't do anything. Here's what I'm going to do instead. I'm sorry, I don't know what was wrong. I've been off, and I apologize for how I've been sounding. What I'm going to do is I'm going to lift my finger and I'm going to aim behind that three-headed bastard and I'm going to release a 4th-level Fireball.
Matt: Over here?
Orion: Yes.
Matt: Show me with your laser pointer where you want the impact to be.
Orion: Behind him where it won't hurt Keyleth and will just hurt him. Wherever that is.
Matt: Okay. I'd say that'd probably be right around this area here.
Orion: I'm going to immediately spend two sorcery points and quicken spell, and I'm going to turn around and do three Scorching Rays to follow up the Fireball right at that dude, each head.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: I'm going to, on that spell, spend another--
Matt: Wait up, let's do the Fireball first.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: One thing at a time. So as you use your ring, you focus. The ray streaks past. Slams into the wall behind (explosion sound) with a deafening roar, and you guys definitely hear this. The hallway in the distance suddenly brightens up, and you can see a bit of flame roll up, and the scent of smoke comes wafting past you as a wave of heat blasts through the tunnel.
Liam: Yeah, he does that.
Matt: What's the DC on your spells?
Orion: 17.
Matt: Does not make the save, so full damage on the otyugh.
Orion: Wonderful, so let's see. Here's a six.
Matt: That rat swarm would also be hit.
Orion: Here's a five. Okay, so I'm going to now--
Matt: What's the damage on the Fireball?
Orion: Hold on, I'm going to spend one sorcery point to empower the spell, and I'm going to pick the six and reroll these four dice, because I can reroll up to that many when I empower. For that damage. Perfect. What's the total for that, guys?
Matt: (singing) Math. Wizard math.
Wil: Math has no power here.
Liam: Math is for everybody, guys. Really.
Orion: What is that? Nine. That's 24. And then (counting).
Matt: We're going to pimp out a calculator for him one day.
Marisha: Yes, abacus.
Orion: 48.
Matt: 48 points of damage. Boom. All right. Well. After the fireball explosion settles, you can see there's a big char mark in the front of it. Some of its teeth have been blown into the inside of its mouth. The rat swarm behind Keyleth is completely incinerated with a hundred-squeak screeches, and you can smell charred fur and hair and flesh in the air.
Marisha: Oh, you burned my new robes! Ugh.
Orion: So I'm going to do that. Okay, and then the Scorching Ray happens. And I'm going to heighten that spell, which gives you disadvantage against the save? Is that what I want to do? Yeah, that's what I'm going to do.
Liam: It feels like you just did 17 things.
Matt: Well, no. You have to make a ranged spell attack for each one. There is no saving throw for it.
Orion: Oh. Actually, I don't do that, then. I don't spend those points. I was supposed to do True Strike to make that work. d20s, right?
Matt: Yep, so roll for each ray.
Orion: Wonderful. Yeah, they all hit. I got a 14, an 18, a 19, and my spell attack bonus is plus 11.
Matt: Okay. They all hit. (laughter)
Wil: I saw that DM move of, I'll tell you if it hits. I felt that.
Matt: It was there, and he was right. 6d6 fire damage.
Orion: Ooh, that's gross, and I'm going to empower that spell, as well. So it's four, and I'm going to pick four out of these six-- no! I rolled a six. (counts quietly) 29.
Matt: 29? All righty. As each ray (impact sounds), you can see the flashing of the flaming light in the air. This darkened room is suddenly illuminated in bursts as each of these rays of burning fire go blasting into the side of the otyugh. It's nearly pushed back into the pile that it pulled itself from, but steadies itself. Does that end your turn?
Orion: Yes, it does.
Matt: All right. Tiberius's turn has come to an end.
Marisha: I've knitted a sweater while Tiberius took his turn.
Matt: All right. Next up is the otyugh, who is extremely unhappy with how that went down. (growls) You now see as it pulls from the front of its body one giant backwards-looking elephant leg that steps into the front of the material, a second one, forward. It pulls itself completely out of the pile, and you can see a third one, like a giant tripod. These thick legs carry it forward. It is going to do a bite attack and a tentacle attack on you, and a tentacle attack on Keyleth, as you're the nearest to it. So as it rears back with its mouth, this giant maw opens with all these nasty jagged broken teeth, and the smell that comes out of its mouth is horrifying, even for your experience as a dragonborn. That would be... 18 to hit.
Orion: Did you roll at disadvantage?
Matt: Why would I have disadvantage?
Orion: Cloak of Displacement?
Matt: Oh! Good call. Oh, that's even higher. 19. But thank you for the reminder; that's good to know.
Orion: AC is 18.
Matt: So it hits.
Liam: Now go home and get your shine box.
Matt: So as you're hanging back and your image is shifting and shimmering nearby, its mouth is just too big, and as it bites down, while it would have partially hit the side, it manages to find your proper location. The teeth clomp down onto you. You take 16 points of piercing damage. As you (grunts) reach back in pain, you push yourself out of its mouth. I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Orion: 22.
Matt: 22. Okay, so you pull off and away. You can see where it dragged across your scales, it left this nasty trail of black-- whatever you would call it, saliva-- but you manage to slip it off your hand, and you feel like it's probably not going to bother you too much. However, as you steady yourself, one of the tentacles comes swinging down towards you. That is also with disadvantage. That would be a 21 to hit.
Orion: Yeah, that hits.
Matt: All right. You take seven points of bludgeoning damage from the impact. That's only four points of piercing damage as the spines slam into your side and seem to stick onto you. You are also considered grappled and restrained for the time, as the tentacle wraps around you and the spines are digging into your body. It now has you by your waist and is holding you in place.
Orion: This is fun. How much damage is that, total?
Matt: That'd be a total of 11 damage.
Orion: Really? Plus the other damage?
Matt: Plus the bite, no. Did you not write down the bite damage I told you?
Orion: That's 16, so 26? 27. So what's half of that?
Matt: Half of that?
Orion: Because of the Stoneskin. My Stoneskin is still up.
Matt: Stoneskin is still up. That is correct. How long does that last?
Orion: Hour?
Matt: Hour. Yeah, that should've lasted long enough. You're fine, yeah. So half of that would've been--
Orion: I cast that when we were chasing him--
Matt: Yeah. 13 points of damage.
Orion: Okay. 13 points.
Matt: That was a lot of technicality in one turn. Well done, Tiberius. All right.
Wil: Spellcasters.
Matt: That will be a 23 against you.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: That turn's done. That'll be a total of 14 points of bludgeoning damage to you and five points of piercing damage, and you are also grappled by the other tentacles here. You are both currently being held to the sides of the creature.
Marisha: 14 and five, you said?
Matt: Correct. That brings us to Vax.
Liam: We're how high up from here?
Matt: About 15 feet up, and you're that far back.
Liam: We're that far back? All right, so it takes my whole movement just to run to the edge probably, yeah?
Matt: (counting) Yeah, pretty close, right there. That's your turn?
Liam: And that's it? Bonus action, right?
Matt: Bonus action if you want it, yeah.
Liam: But I can't see. Can I see past the lip of the edge to the top of that?
Matt: Whatever you're trying to hit might have three-quarters cover.
Liam: (sighs) That's it.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn. Now the swarms. Moving in. Each one of these rats swarms start crawling up towards your body, and they're starting to find their way into your armor, and they're biting. It's a terrible experience. Swarm attacking Keyleth is going to be a 16 to hit.
Marisha: Nope.
Matt: Nope. You brush them off yourself.
Marisha: I look at them and I go, (rat noises).
Matt: (laughs) The rat whisperer. Attacking you, Brother Kash. That looks like it's going to be a ten to hit?
Will: Okay, so now what?
Matt: What's your armor class?
Will: My armor class is where? There. It's 20.
Matt: 20. These rats come forward and you (whack) knock them out of the way with your shield. Against Tiberius, that is going to be, with disadvantage--
Orion: Man, they can't touch me. I'm up in the air, yo.
Matt: You're grappled, but you're not floating in the air.
Orion: Aw man, I thought he was whipping me around.
Matt: Not yet.
Marisha: (laughs) Not yet.
Matt: That's going to be a 13, so it's going to miss you. So the rats, no effect yet. That ends their turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: I take the tentacle that's grappled around me and I grab onto it, and I cast Blight.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: It has to make a constitution saving throw.
Matt: What level is Blight? Blight is 4th?
Marisha: 3rd.
Matt: All right, constitution saving throw. That is an 11. What's your DC? I'm pretty sure it fails.
Marisha: 18.
Matt: Okay, it takes 8d8 necrotic damage. Go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: Yes, it does.
Will: Nice work.
Marisha: Where'd all my d8s go?
Will: You gave them to me. You very nicely gave them to me.
Marisha: Here's one. Ooh, there's four, so five, six. Seven. I just like rolling all of them I could roll. Okay. That's all right. There's ten, there's 20, there's 35. Sorry. Yes, 36 damage.
Matt: 36 damage.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: Nice! As you grab the tentacle, you can see the slippery, slimy flesh, and it has the residue on it. As your fingers grasp into it, its brownish-yellow color all of a sudden turns into this grayish sickly dried landscape, as you can see the flesh cracking to dust around it. The tentacle's still grasping onto you. The magical energy travels up the side of what would be its torso and body, and you can see it beginning to withdraw through severe pain. It manages to eventually shrug off any further spread of the magical disease, of the Blight, but it has left this horrible scarring across one side of its whole body. You can't really move this turn, since you're currently restrained.
Marisha: It's fine.
Matt: Yep. All right. That brings us to Thorbir. What you got?
Wil: I'm going to continue down this corridor to get close to the half-elf.
Matt: That's a full round of movement there.
Wil: That's all I can do. Leave something for me!
Matt: All right, that ends that. That's going to bring us to the top. Kashaw. Your turn.
Will: Is the side that she damaged useless at this point? The one tentacle?
Matt: No, it's still functional, still wrapped around her. There's scarring across it and a large part of its upper torso. Torso. It's weird to say parts of its body when it has that strange construction.
Wil: Don't attach your body norms to it, man.
Matt: (laughs) I apologize.
Liam: Are you body-shaming that otyugh?
Will: Shouldn't we? I'd like to move as much directly in front of the creature as possible.
Matt: Okay. That'll get you there. That one rat swarm does get a free attack on you as you move past it. That is going to be an 11. You can see the rats swarming up your legs and trying to get past, but the armor's too thick and the chain mail's too strong underneath the plate you have, and you brush them off as you move to the side. Pulls you right up in front of it, now. Its giant mouth is (chomping sounds) angrily gnashing and biting down in front of you, and it's sending bits of that brackish spittle across your face and smells horrifying. What are you doing?
Will: I'd like to try to take control of it with Geas. See if I can tell this bitch what to do.
Marisha: Do it!
Will: Not you.
Marisha: I was hoping you weren't talking about me.
Will: I'd never call you bitch.
Matt: Okay, the casting time for Geas is one minute.
Will: Okay.
Matt: Knowing that, every combat round is equivalent to six seconds, so you could try it. It probably won't survive that long, but hold onto that spell for now. Is there another one you'd like to use?
Will: I will hold onto that. Yeah. I think then I'm going to try... How about just another Sacred Flame for now?
Matt: Sure. Go ahead and roll to attack, sir. No, this one it just makes its saving throw. I forgot. All right, cool. It's going to attempt at making another dexterity saving throw. That is a 14, and that does not beat it, so go ahead and roll 3d8 points of damage to it. Radiant damage. Tiberius, you're on deck.
Marisha: Oh, nice. Not bad.
Will: 16.
Matt: 16 points of damage, nice. Yes. (impact sounds) Once again, the flames burst up, and you can see parts of its body where the scarring is across it all of a sudden explode with light, and beneath you can see the freshly exposed grayish-brown fleshy muscle beneath its outer armored structure. It is looking a little rough. That ends your turn. That brings us to Tiberius.
Orion: He's got me like this, right? Yeah, sure. I'm going to cast True Strike on him. Cantrip.
Matt: True Strike on yourself?
Orion: On him.
Matt: On him.
Orion: I'm going to look for a weakness. That'll give me advantage on my next--
Matt: Attack roll against the target? Okay.
Orion: Then I'm going to quicken spell and spend two more sorcery points to cast-- well, I'm going to look over. Can I see where Vax and him are coming?
Matt: Currently, no. There is so much going on in the room, and the only light source is you right now. You have no inclination that they're even at the top at this point, and you're currently wrapped in a tentacle and being swarmed by rats. You have no way of telling that they've even arrived at this point.
Orion: I can see behind the creature, though, because that's within range. So I will do Misty Step behind him and get out of that grip.
Matt: All righty. Misty Step is a 2nd-level?
Orion: Yes.
Matt: All right. To where do you want to go?
Orion: As far away behind him as I can go.
Matt: There you go.
Orion: And that is my turn.
Matt: All righty. Ending your turn, the otyugh turns around angrily. Now it looks, it has its empty tendril. It's going to step away. You do get one, Brother Kash, as it steps away. You get one free attack with your spear as it tries to move away from you.
Will: Okay.
Matt: So go ahead and roll an attack with your spear.
Will: That is a d20? 14.
Matt: Plus your attack bonus.
Will: Attack bonus is--
Marisha: Oh, plus nine.
Matt: Oh, that definitely hits. So go ahead and roll damage for the spear.
Will: Damage for the spear?
Marisha: Which is 1d8 plus three.
Will: 1d8 plus three. Where's my d8? Ten.
Matt: So as it moves away (stomping sounds) you reach out and (whoosh) hit it with the spear, leaving this big old gaping wound in the side where more of its dark blood begins to spill out from the wound. As it moves over, it's going to go ahead and do one bite attack towards Keyleth with its open mouth. That's going to be a 24.
Marisha: That hits.
Matt: All right. That's going to be 16 points of piercing damage to you, and make a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16. You can feel the diseased liquid that fills the inside of the otyugh's mouth begin to pulse into your arm for a second. You tense, and eventually the pain and numbness tends to fade within a few seconds. However, as you take that moment to yourself, as it's still grabbing you with the one tentacle, it's going to reach and attack twice towards Tiberius. That is going to be a 16?
Orion: Nope.
Matt: Okay. That'll be a 19.
Orion: Yes.
Matt: So the second one hits you. That is eight points of bludgeoning damage and five points, so 13. Half that because of Stoneskin. That puts you at seven points of damage. And you are once again grappled and wrapped up by it.
Orion: I think he likes me!
Matt: I think you pissed it off when you set it on fire multiple times in a row.
Will: We could use a little help down here!
Liam: Coming!
Matt: That ends its turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to run up to the edge of it. Are any of my friends right up against this nasty shit?
Matt: Currently, Keyleth is right next to it.
Liam: Keyleth. So if it's occupied with my friend, I can take a second, aim really well, and sneak attack from up here. Okay, so that is 24.
Matt: 24? That hits, definitely.
Liam: All right, so sneak attack.
Marisha: Oh good, you showed up!
Liam: That's a two plus nine. This is Keen Dagger. Nine. Plus 12, 17, 21. That's 21. 30.
Matt: 30 points of damage. All right.
Liam: And the second dagger, which is Life-Stealing, hits with a 24.
Matt: That hits, definitely.
Liam: That is eight.
Matt: Eight. All right. You still have the rest of your movement if you want to stay up there or wish to move somewhere.
Liam: Nope, just going to perch.
Matt: Okay, cool. All right.
Matt: Ending Vax's turn, the rats now move up. This one is going to go there, attacking Keyleth. You are currently restrained. Tiberius, you are also restrained, so attacks against you have advantage. That'll be a 19 against you.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Against Tiberius, it just has a general attack roll because you give it disadvantage on attacks. That is going to be a 17, which I think misses you. All right. Keyleth, you take nine points of piercing damage as the rats are now swarming up over the side of the tentacle and biting at your neck and shoulder area, and you're trying to brush them off of you.
Marisha: No! (squeaking noises)
Matt: Rats aren't your friends anymore. That finishes their turn. It is now your turn, Keyleth.
Marisha: My turn? Okay, are rats swarming me?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: This guy's looking pretty close to dead, yeah?
Matt: He's looking pretty hurt.
Marisha: He's looking pretty hurt? I'm going to do it again. I'm going to do Blight again.
Matt: Blight again against this guy?
Marisha: Yeah. I'm still grappled, right?
Matt: You are, yes.
Marisha: So just same thing, I'm just going to (sucking sound) try and suck the life out of this guy.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Constitution saving throw.
Matt: That is going to be a 13.
Marisha: (laughs, counts) I need one more, where's it at? Big money, no whammies. Ooh, that's not bad. Okay, so that's 14, 15, 16, 24, 30, 32, 35, 41, 45.
Matt: 45 points of damage from Blight. So this time, as the rats are swarming over you, you reach up your hands. They're glowing with the energy that you're drawing from this. You can see the actual air around her hands beginning to turn black and the air is beginning to be pulled in. What was once a very moist and warm vicinity gets strangely cold as now her hands embody the end of life. She grasps the tentacle, and the rats scatter as the proximity grows. As you touch it, you can see now what was once the Blight's scarring begins to fill the entire tentacle, and as it turns, it hardens around you, almost like a brittle piece of concrete. The rest of its body (cracking) you see it begins to (roars), starts thrashing about. Its tendril releases you, Tiberius, dropping you into a pile of refuse. As it reaches around to try and grasp its own tentacle, (shattering sound) it breaks through its own arm. As it reels back, you fall onto your butt, the rest of the broken pieces of otyugh crumbling into dust around you. You look up and see the creature as it attempts to back up, each one of its legs pulling up against the one door that's partially buried in the far corner. It slams into the side as the Blight spreads across its body. Its teeth begin to shatter and turn to dust within its mouth, which begins to slowly curl inward as it ages extremely rapidly in a short period of time. Suddenly, it slumps to the ground, (gurgling sound) and joins the refuse of which it once came from.
Marisha: Dead?
Matt: Thorbir?
Wil: You were supposed to save something for me!
Orion: There's a bunch of rats down here!
Wil: Rats!
Will: Walk faster.
Wil: (clunk clunk) To the edge, there. How far down is it?
Matt: 15 feet. And it is soft ground.
Wil: Can I jump and land on those rats?
Matt: You know what? Sure. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Marisha: Come on. You can do it.
Wil: Okay. 17.
Marisha: It's rats!
Matt: You leap, slam down on top of the rat swarm that just jettisoned off the side of Keyleth. I'm going to say for that impact, go ahead and roll 1d6. It takes 1d6 bludgeoning damage from you stepping on a few of the rats.
Wil: Six.
Matt: Six! All righty. And they're now all around you on the ground and they're trying to swarm away from the impact zone. You still have your action.
Wil: Okay, so. I haven't played a character this high-level in this system, so bear with me while I walk through this. I believe that I can attack three times in a round, right? I have the extra attack feature?
Matt: Yes, as a fighter, you do. You have three attacks.
Wil: Okay, so I'm going to take my axe and just try to kill as many of these things as I possibly can. So I swing my axe.
Matt: All right.
Wil: And I roll a two.
Matt: All right, you swing your axe for the first batch of rats. Unfortunately, it's hard to see where the compost pile and the rats separate. You cleave through a bunch of the slimy mess, slinging a bunch of it against the wall, and as you spatter a bit against Keyleth, who's behind you. Roll for your next attack.
Wil: Very unhappy about that. Okay, three. How's that hole looking? It's a great hole, right?
Matt: You decide, as opposed to a small swath, let's make it a wider one, and your axe swings again. This time you catch a singular rat, but with the flat of the blade, and you send it flying about ten feet, where it comes back unharmed and joins the rest of its crew.
Wil: Just getting warmed up! And a one.
Will: It can't be real! It can't be real.
Liam: That is CG. That is computer-generated.
Matt: This time, in an angry fury that you are being stifled by what is essentially sewer rats, you lift your axe up in the air as one rat has climbed up your pants bites you right in the crotch.
Wil: Don't touch it, don't do that. Okay. Yes, it does.
Matt: In pain, you drop the axe behind you and reach down and grab the rat and tear it in half out of frustration and anger, and I will give you a point of damage for that.
Wil: A point of damage? The rat bit through my metal codpiece?
Matt: It snuck up past the small little gap there and ate through your leather britches, and you are in severe pain, nearing prone.
Wil: Well, I mean us dwarves are known for our dicks that are sensitive to rat bites.
Matt: This is true. They didn't put that in the Player's Handbook, but I think they're going to amend it, too.
Wil: Oh, it's canon in my game.
Matt: And with that, Thorbir's turn is up.
Wil: Yeah, it sure is. Excuse me, I must inform the internet of my majesty.
Liam: You got your dick bit by a rat, son. You're a man now.
Will: (laughs) You're a man now.
Matt: Every dwarf, when they hit the tender age of 30, has to wander waist-deep into the rat pits. All right. Kashaw, you're up.
Will: First I would like to turn to Thorbir and say, are you kidding me?! How many rats are left?
Matt: You have the group that is currently swarming around Thorbir, one immediately to your left that you're batting away with your shield, and one group that is currently trying to get all up in Tiberius's shit.
Will: Can we tell who's in the most danger at this point?
Matt: For the most part, everyone seems to be doing okay. He's looking the roughest from a situational--
Marisha: That's just a bruised ego. That's different.
Will: Yeah. I think I would like to move to come to Strongcastle's defense over here.
Orion: Stormwind.
Will: Right.
Matt: All right, so. There we go. The rats do get a swing at you. That is going to be-- that's not going to hit. Once again, you hear the little small tings against the back of your armor, but it's not even a bother at this point. All right, what are you doing? You move up to the rats.
Will: Once again, because again, people, I need some help. I'm a healer for god's sakes, so I'm going to try Sacred Flame again.
Matt: All right, which I'm going to say you stayed a step back on, because it's a ranged attack. So you get real close, once again set your spear down real fast, grab your holy symbol, and then release that burst. Go ahead and roll for attack. Actually, no, it's a saving throw again. That's my end. The rats roll a one. Go ahead and roll straight damage on that. It's 3d8.
Will: Oh, the 3d8s. That's right. I'm sorry.
Matt: It's all good.
Will: Here are the d8s, right?
Wil: You know, if you're me, you only have to roll once.
Will: That's not that great. Eight.
Matt: Eight points of damage. You release it and you can see about 13, 14 rats get thrown and scattered, their lifeless burnt corpses (pattering sound) around, and the little hole that you left in the middle of that pile closes up as the rats form once again into a coalesced swarm. That ends your turn, I believe. That'll bring us to Tiberius.
Marisha: Kill some rats.
Orion: What the hell are we in?
Matt: It's a giant cylindrical-- it looks like it was once a cistern that has been turned into some sort of a refuse--
Orion: Is there a roof?
Matt: From what you can see? Roll a perception check.
Orion: What do I use?
Matt: Perception. It's a skill. You don't use it very often.
Orion: 15. No, 14.
Matt: As far as you can see, it goes up maybe 30 or so feet beyond the radius of your Light spell and fades into darkness. You have no idea if there's a ceiling or end to it or how far it would be if there was one.
Orion: Okay. Well, I've got one right next to me, right?
Matt: You do.
Orion: I'm going to put out my hand and I'm going to do a Firebolt right next to that one.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll to attack with disadvantage.
Orion: Why, are they on me?
Matt: Yeah, they're right up against you. Ranged attacks, when you're in melee with the target, it's at disadvantage.
Orion: Oh, right. Well, then I'm going to not do that. I'm going to cast Obelisk of Stone and then quicken spell and then I'm going to do a Firebolt. That's what I'm going to do.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Yeah.
Wil: Avenge me!
Matt: Obelisk of Stone puts you up on top there.
Orion: About ten feet. And then I'll do the 2d10 damage.
Matt: All righty.
Orion: d10s. Here's one.
Will: All right, I think I have one.
Matt: Roll to hit first.
Orion: Is it a d10? Do what now? Roll to hit first?
Liam: You need d10s.
Orion: Yes, thank you. Is that a spell attack roll? That's 31.
Matt: 31? Yeah, that hits. Swarm of rats  not too hard to hit, really.
Orion: Cool, so that's 11, so that's 16.
Matt: 16? All right. You lift up onto your ten-foot platform as this stone pushes up from beneath all of the slime, and as it emerges, it sends this spilling cluster of whatever was at the bottom of this. You have to keep your footing as you go up. In fact, because of this room, I'm going to go ahead and have you roll a dexterity saving throw.
Orion: What is that, 12?
Matt: 12. So you get the attack off, but you lose your footing from the slick nature of the obelisk you just created, and you will plummet off and fall prone into the refuse to the side of the obelisk, but you still get the damage off on the spell. As you blast-- whoa-- and Tiberius, you tumble off the side. It's a soft impact. You only fall ten feet. It doesn't do any damage, but you are currently prone on the ground next to your obelisk.
Liam: Refuse is code for shit.
Matt: I believe that ends your turn. You haven't moved yet, so you could technically use your movement to get up from prone if you wanted.
Orion: Oh, I'll do that.
Matt: Okay. Cool, that ends your turn. He's gone. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm staying safe up here. I'm going to throw more daggers. There's a little pile under Thorbir's hiney? And a little bit out by itself, right?
Matt: Right here, yes.
Liam: Are they spilling out from under the dwarf's hiney? Or are they all hidden?
Matt: No, they're all around him. They're sharing the same space.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to throw daggers at the one that's biting his ass, so it's a sneak attack. That's not good. That's 13.
Matt: So a 13, that hits.
Liam: Oh hey, rats.
Matt: Rats are easy to hit.
Liam: Oh, right.
Wil: No, they're not. (laughter)
Will: Usually, they are.
Liam: That's two plus seven is nine, plus 11, 12, 17, 18, 19, 21 is the first dagger, and I send the next one down. If the last one hit, this one hits. So that's 21 and the second dagger is a ten, so 31.
Matt: 31 damage total? All right. You notice that because of the nature of the swarm, what would normally be a creature that you could do a shit-ton of damage to, knowing its physicality, it seems like a lot of the physical attacks aren't as effective as you would like. However, this swarm has already taken a few hits, and as you carve through, dagger after dagger, eventually you pick off the remainder of the rats and the swarm is dissipated. The few ones that are stragglers, realizing that safety in numbers is missing, begin to curl their ways back underneath the piles they clawed from originally.
Wil: I was doing fine.
Matt: That ends your turn? At the end of your turn, the other two rat swarms, also realizing the circumstance is bad, fight-or-flight kicks in and they flee and crawl back underneath.
Marisha: Smart rats.
Liam: Cheese!
Will: (Mickey Mouse voice) Haha! I think I'm going to flee. Let's all swarm, come on, we can do it.
Matt: So you all take a moment, take your breath. You get back up.
Liam: I'm going to hop down in the shit and loop an arm under Thorbir's arm. Come on, old man.
Will: How's your dick?
Wil: I don't want to talk about it.
Orion: I Prestidigitate all the crap off.
Matt: Okay.
Will: Is she still on the ground, or has she gotten up?
Matt: You've gotten back up. She's still spattered--
Will: You ruined your new dress.
Marisha: I know. I got scorched by Tiberius's fireball.
Will: You fought well, though.
Wil: I'm looking for the way out of here. I'm looking to see where the rakshasa went.
Matt: Looking on the far side, it's partially buried in the ground from the collection here, but you can see there is a bit of a push, like the door had been opened briefly and pushed things away, then slammed shut, and it's slowly starting to coalesce back towards it.
Liam: All right. Hold on, everybody. I walk right toward it, perception checking the area around it and the door itself. That's 24.
Matt: 24? The door appears to be a normal door. Nothing strange about its presentation. However, upon checking the handle on the edge of it, it does appear to be locked.
Liam: Locked. All right, well, I pull out my little sack and I pull out one of these (twing) and go to work on it. That is a 28.
Matt: 28. In a matter of seconds-- this is an old-school lock, and one that is generally used for not very security-required rooms. Flick of the wrist, (click, creak) the door pushes inward a little bit and you have to get your strength in to push back the cluster of dried and liquid plant matter that is rotting against it, with just enough of a gap to push through into a dark room beyond, it looks like.
Liam: I Fonzie'd it.
Matt: You did, kind of.
Liam: (Fonzie impressions) Hey.
Marisha: (Fonzie impressions) Hey.
Liam: Okay, Tiberius, are you still lighting up this room?
Matt: He is currently the only light source, yes.
Liam: Okay, so there's probably a little bit of light going in there, so I'm trying to look in to see what I can see from his spill-in there.
Matt: Okay. Glancing into the next room, you can see there's a little bit of a trickle of liquid that has spilled from underneath the doorway from this room. And you get the feeling this door isn't open very often, if at all, and the little bit of slime that has coasted through only goes about five, ten feet into a long stone hallway that disappears in the darkness no more than maybe 20 feet from you. Even with the low light, you can see pretty far. To the right and left of you, though: sets of iron bars.
Liam: Okay. Tibs. Follow that. Try and keep behind me. And I throw up the hood and go as low to the ground as I can, and I start to Gollum along the floor, looking at the ground in front of me in the dim light, trying to see if I can see any traps ahead of me.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25. As you begin walking into the hallway, you go past, and you start to notice from the visual around you, there's smooth stone floor. The iron bars are all the way across with some partitions between. This is in particular a subterranean holding facility, some sort of an underground prison, and it's very quiet and there is no light in here. There are sconces set up, but it looks like there have been no recent torches set.
Liam: Hear anything?
Matt: Hearing? You hear nothing. It is absolutely still and quiet.
Liam: I grab my earring. Let's do it. And I start moving forward.
Marisha: I follow him.
Matt: The rest of you guys continue with him?
Wil: I come up to the door and see what I can see with my darkvision.
Matt: Okay. Glancing inside as well, you can see the prison goes on for as far as your visual range is, about 60 feet. There are four sets of prison cells on each side, so there are eight cells total, and the hallway continues past that. But you can't quite see beyond those initial four on each side. You can glance on the inside. You can see what looks like dried and brittle thatch that was once used to cover the floor has slowly molded over time. To your left, you see what looks to be elements of a skeletal corpse that was left for a very long period of time in the cell immediately to your left as you look through the doorway.
Wil: I'll continue on.
Matt: Okay. As you enter this area and start stepping in, the air itself has a very chemical smell to it. It's hard to describe. There's something musty and untouched to the air, but there's also some sort of gentle hint of an acrid scent. Do you guys continue forward through this prison area?
Liam: I'm looking at the floor and everything as far out as I can see ahead of me.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: What's above us?
Matt: Looking up, it's about 15 feet up, and it is another smooth stone ceiling. The construction here looks old. You, specifically, go ahead and make a perception check. With advantage, because you are a dwarf.
Wil: 12 plus whatever. Do I roll again?
Matt: Yeah, roll again. As you're a dwarf, and this is an underground stone structure.
Wil: Oh, nine. So 15.
Matt: Okay, that's not bad. Looking at the stonework here, it's definitely created for function more than any sort of presentory functionality. You gather from looking at the nearby pieces of the stone wall that connects with the first set of metal bars that this was probably carved a few hundred years ago, and the metal bars as you move past-- you guys see this too-- the doorways that lead into these, some appear to be locked and some are completely open, easy to swing, and as you pull it open, (creak) very heavy rust against those iron doors, probably affected largely by the nearby moisture emanating from the room and whatever chemical's hanging in the air.
Will: Are we still lit?
Matt: You're still lit by his Light spell, yes.
Marisha: And there's nothing really in the prison cells, with the exception of one skeleton?
Matt: Well, that was in one room. If you want to go ahead and check around, go ahead and make an investigation check.
Liam: I thought we would have seen it here.
Marisha: Yeah, I'll look around in the cells. Natural 20!
Matt: There is balance to the universe. As you're walking past, Keyleth, looking over on one side, you see further up, with a bunch of the thatch pushed around it, there appears to be a corpse that doesn't have the layer of dust that a number of the other skeletal piles in some of the other cells seem to have. The door to get into the cell, though, does appear to be locked.
Marisha: Vax. Need your help; this is locked.
Liam: What's in there?
Marisha: Looks like a fresh dead guy?
Liam: Okay. Out comes the pick. I'm going to perception check that corpse through the cell. That's a 12.
Matt: It's hard to tell. It's mostly covered with a lot of this thatch. It doesn't look like it was intentionally covered, but some sort of a struggle took place in this room.
Liam: Now for the door. Natural 20.
Wil: You're welcome. (laughter)
Wil: I work in mysterious ways.
Matt: The lock on this, it's not an intricate lock, but it is very heavily rusted, and as soon as you start moving in there, you realize that there is actually something metal that has been broken off inside, whether by a previous key, just through accident, or intent, it was broken off inside. You manage to find a way to remove it, pull the piece out, and still get the lock open. The gate swings open, and you guys enter to inspect this corpse. Looking at it, you notice that the body has been probably dead for a couple months. It is in prolonged state of decomposition, but there is still some semblance of flesh sloughing off the remnants of the bone. You can see from the wounds that it has received that a large portion of it has been torn open very violently and elements of it have been removed. The softer organs.
Wil: Is it wearing any clothing?
Matt: As you inspect it, you look and see that while smashed with blood and dirt and dust, the outfit does appear to be that of a Duskmeadow Bastion.
Liam: I feel really terrible, but I'm going to give him the old half-elven pat-down and see if I can find anything on his personage.
Matt: Looking about his entire body, anything of value has been taken.
Will: Can I speak with him?
Matt: Can you what?
Will: I'd like to cast Speak With Dead.
Matt: You can.
Will: Let's find out what killed him.
Liam: You can do that?
Will: Yes, I can do many things.
Liam: That's badass!
Marisha: And he's a dusk-what Bastion?
Matt: Duskmeadow, which is the section of Vasselheim that worships the Raven Queen. The guys that you encountered earlier in the road? The dark, studded leather armor with the cloak swept over one arm.
Liam: You know he's dead, right?
Wil: I cast Annoyed Dwarf to know that he was likely killed by the rakshasa. Why are we standing in this room?
Will: I want to know when he was killed.
Wil: I'm not stopping you.
Matt: Okay, so as you sit down and you begin preparing your ritual, you once again mutter under your breath and begrudgingly pull out your symbol. As you continue casting the spell, there's a slight shimmer of greenish-blue light that slowly pours over the corpse, seeps into the bones, and for a moment you see Kashaw go into this trance-like state. Kashaw, you see from within the corpse, the face sits up with this horrible cracking bone-like sound. The skeletal element with this partially mummified and mostly rotten face steps forward, and the vacuous sockets that once held its eyes turn towards you, and you could swear you see the bone of its grimace grin as it airily whispers towards you, "Why do you bother me?"
Will: Because I have questions.
Matt: "What questions do you have?"
Will: What killed you?
Matt: "Something that was not supposed to be here. Something vicious, something untrue. It wasn't what it seemed. This woman was asking for help, and no one's supposed to be down here if it's not their route. Occasionally, we come and check on these abandoned parts of the prison. A woman was here. A woman should not be down here. I went to ask what was wrong, and she took this from me." And the bony hand reaches up and gestures to the throat, and you can see there's giant claw marks across the front of its spinal cord where its neck is that give the sensation that something tore its throat out.
Will: A woman did this to you?
Matt: "Aye."
Marisha: Shapeshifter.
Will: Or there's more than one. When? When were you killed?
Matt: "14 weeks have passed. I was resting."
Will: Anybody have questions? He's not going to be here long, I can tell you that. Not at 14 weeks.
Marisha: Ask him if he knows which direction he went, and if he has a hideout.
Will: Which direction she went, you mean.
Marisha: Well, he or she or whatever it was.
Will: Did you see which direction she went after she killed you?
Matt: "She walked away, laughing and eating parts of me. I have not seen her since, but others walk these halls. I've seen a dwarf pass through two or three times, and as it did and passed my cell, it laughed. Sometimes guards come to inspect, but none have found me. None have found me yet."
Will: Are all the guards that come Bastions of the Raven Queen?
Matt: "We are the ones to protect the Amaranthine Oubliette. That is our job here. You sit in the lower forgotten halls of the Oubliette. My final resting place."
Will: Stormcloud? Any questions?
Orion: I think we've learned all we can from this one.
Marisha: Which direction was the dwarf walking?
Will: You can answer her. What direction was the dwarf going?
Matt: The other hand creeps up from underneath the thatch. As you guys are watching this, the corpse is doing nothing, it's just lying there, he is talking to an unmoving corpse. For your vision, the hand reaches over and points in the direction you guys came from.
Will: So it went the way we came.
Matt: "That was two weeks ago."
Marisha: But he said he's been coming and going, so maybe he was just leaving?
Will: Coming the same direction we came from, though. That seems odd. And a man, a dwarf, and a woman.
Liam: Weeks ago. Not five minutes ago.
Matt: The spell fades, and the corpse falls back to its original pose, jaw left open, aghast in its final moments.
Liam: Thorbir's right. We're burning time. We need to go in.
Will: Go in where? Do we go back the direction the dwarf came?
Orion: I rolled a 23 arcana check on Thorbir's jeweled knife that he gave me.
Matt: Just so you guys are aware, you are essentially in this vicinity of the prison. This was the room where you found the corpse, here. And you've seen just enough light begin to reveal there is a secondary prison room up here.
Will: I'm sorry, but we came from that direction?
Matt: From this door, yes. This would've connected right there.
Will: Okay.
Wil: Every second we're here, it's getting away.
Orion: I agree.
Liam: You're absolutely right. We're going in. When we're in there, you keep it busy, and I will carve it up.
Wil: I will keep it busy.
Will: Try not to get your dick bit by a rat.
Liam: I slide past Tiberius, crouch down to the ground again, and start scuttling along the ground. Looking, listening.
Orion: What was the ruling on the arcana check?
Matt: For?
Orion: The jeweled knife that Thorbir gave me.
Matt: The knife does not appear to have any sort of magical aura about it. It's just a very well-crafted and probably relatively expensive piece of functionality or ornamental use. It's a very fine blade, though. It would be a fine thing to enchant, if you were inclined to.
Orion: Kashaw. How close are you to your god?
Will: At one time, very close. Now? I don't think you'd want to be anywhere near her.
Marisha: And which god is that?
Will: My god is called Vesh, and I am the only one on the planet who has ever heard of her. Yeah, she killed everybody else. Want to talk to her?
Orion: I don't.
Will: No. Neither do I.
Marisha: Why did she spare you?
Will: Because I'm her husband.
Orion: Oh. How is that, being married to a god? That's rather inconvenient.
Marisha: And how does that happen in the first place?
Wil: Thorbir sighs heavily and steps into the room, and follows Vax.
Marisha: We can walk and talk. You guys go.
Matt: So you're walking forward.
Will: She married me at birth. My mother was told that I was a special child, which is why I had the yellow eyes. I had two when I was born. We were married at birth. She killed everyone in the village. On my 15th naming-day she came to consummate the marriage. I made the first 50 slashes on my right arm. She made the next 50 for a ritual called the Sting of the Hundred, and when my blood mixed with her sweat, I gained all her memories. That's when I found out she was essentially the devil. I was raised as a healer because I wasn't just supposed to be her husband, but also her balance, because the universe wouldn't accept somebody as black as her in it. Tried to kill her at 15. Haven't seen her since.
Orion: Ooh. So it's not like you can ask for a favor, I suppose.
Will: I suppose I could, but there's a good chance she'll kill you, me, and everyone around at the same time.
Matt: At this point in time, as you guys are having this conversation, you moved up and looked and you can see there are two humanoids walking from this direction further down this hallway, which you can see leads this direction.
Liam: I'd like to imagine that Thorbir and Vax left that conversation behind a little.
Matt: As you see them approaching here, stepping in your direction, they are both dressed in full Duskmeadow Bastion armor. The one on the far end appears to be older, balding with thinning gray hair. The one who's further up is in his forties. Big thick brown beard, hair pulled back into a ponytail, and they're both lightly conversing to each other. Not paying much attention, like they're running through a routine.
Liam: I start pushing back on Thorbir, backing everybody up, silently pushing backward and trying to steer everyone in a heap backwards and to the side of the cell we just came from. Just trust me.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Liam: 19.
Matt: 19? Okay. As you're pushing everyone back, (shushing) whispering all this, you hear a voice say, "Hello? Hold on. Hello?" The one with the beard approaches with his hand on his weapon, the other one moving along the back.
Liam: Did I get them into the cell?
Matt: You pushed them far back and into the cell?
Liam: Yeah, that was what I wanted to do, just backwards to everybody.
Orion: Yeah, and as this is going on, I dissipate the Light spell.
Matt: Okay. Light spell vanishes. He walks up and turns the corner.
Liam: I give everybody a group hug with my Cloak of Elvenkind and try to make a big rag pile out of this corner. I'm very uncomfortably pressed against Thorbir's backside.
Matt: Okay. The cloak can only really cover you and partially another person. The rest of you all make a stealth check.
Marisha: So who's it partially covering?
Liam: (laughs) Thorbir.
Marisha: Thorbir.
Matt: No, it's not enough to really effectively do it to another person. It's just more for flavor.
Liam: It's the thought that counts.
Marisha: 15.
Will: Five.
Orion: 20.
Wil: A viewer whose chat name begins with a U-- I won't identify the viewer in case this goes badly-- sent me these dice and said, may they roll well. I would like to apologize in advance for what is about to happen to this person's beloved dice. It's a 15. Oh, look at that! It turns out that there are two-digit numbers on these dice. (laughter)
Wil: And my stealth is two, so that's 17.
Matt: 17, all right. So the guy walks into the room, looks back and forth. The one behind him steps forward into the room a bit. The other one steps behind him. Looks about. Looks from one side of the room, looks over to your room. There's almost a glimmer of recognition in his eye, and continues walking past. They just start walking back the direction you guys came from.
Marisha: Uh.
Matt: The other one--
Marisha: I throw up a Wall of Stone.
Matt: Where?
Marisha: Right there.
Matt: Right there?
Marisha: To lock them in.
Will: That wasn't quiet.
Matt: Wall of Stone goes up.
Liam: (muffled) What the fuck?
Wil: How long does that last?
Marisha: It's permanent!
Wil: Let's go.
Will: It's time to move.
Liam: All right, back around the corner, following around, looking, listening. Everybody the same.
Matt: That chemical smell is getting stronger and stronger. It's burning your nose a little bit.
Marisha: So Kashaw. If you're the only one who knows about this goddess, that means she also killed your parents?
Will: Yes. Thank you for bringing that up.
Liam: Perception? I got you, baby. Well, that was perception.
Wil: So I'm attempting to make a perception roll to see if I can pull anything out of these smells, maybe based on my experience with smithing and the chemicals that are associated with all that sort of thing, but I did roll a three. So I guess I would add a three. The best I can get out of that is a nine.
Matt: Okay. You (sniffs) and it clears your sinuses up pretty well. Much like a fresh dab of wasabi, your nostrils are a little more open. Because it's not sulfurous, it doesn't have something similar to what you'd find in smithing in your experience, at the very least. It's hard to really place where it comes from. You said you're going which way?
Liam: Towards that other door that they did not come out of.
Matt: This here? All right.
Liam: 23 I rolled, perception.
Matt: 23. You approach the door. This door is locked. It does not appear to be trapped.
Liam: Okay. Let's unlock it.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: That is a 21.
Matt: Okay. As you reach down to the lock and you place the picks inside, start fiddling, you look at the iron around it, and the actual metal seems to be frosting over. You pull back your head, and as you exhale, your breath becomes visible and the temperature seems to drop significantly, and as soon as you look up at the wood, something shimmers in the wood, and it's a humanoid face that just pushes out of the wood.
Liam: Can I use Uncanny Dodge to roll backward right now?
Matt: Right now?
Marisha: Oh my god.
Wil: Do we see this happening?
Matt: You guys are hearing his reaction to this just happen in the front, there. I'm going to go ahead and say sure.
Orion: Are there torches down this hallway?
Matt: So one of the hands comes through, reaching out for you, this ghostly arm just swings towards you.
Liam: And I say, nope!
Matt: I'd like to have everybody roll initiative.
Marisha: Oh, again? Man, we're going to run into everything.
Orion: Are there torches in this hallway?
Matt: No.
Will: Lighting, open flame of any kind?
Matt: Currently, no.
Will: Ten.
Wil: 11.
Matt: All right. So we have 20 or higher? Anyone?
Orion: Yes. 21.
Matt: All right. 20 to 15? 15 to ten?
Wil: 11.
Will: I had ten, yeah.
Matt: There we go. All right, nine to five?
Marisha: Nine.
Matt: All right, and then?
Liam: 11, as well. I roll back, going (squeals).
Matt: All right. Tiberius, you're up first. As you see these two drifting humanoid translucent ghostly entities drift out the door that Vax was at as he leaps backward, a second one drifts out of the stone down the hallway and turns towards the group, both of them giving these horrible low moaning sounds. (moans) Their feet are dragging about a foot off the ground.
Orion: I'll point to the one coming from opposite of Vax.
Matt: There?
Orion: That guy.
Matt: That guy, all right.
Orion: And then I'm going to do True Strike on him. And I'll back away!
Matt: Back away.
Orion: That's good. That's my turn.
Matt: Cool. All right. They go next. This one is going to drift forward. Now, the one that swiped at you, as you dodge backward, it drifts forward and its arms reach out for you and attempt to pierce the front of your chest. Go ahead and make a charisma saving throw.
Liam: Okay. I will do that.
Matt: Keyleth, you do the same as the spirit suddenly--
Marisha: A charisma saving throw?
Matt: Yes. Flickers and appears right before you.
Liam: 11.
Matt: 11.
Marisha: Okay. 11.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: (cartoonish ghost noises)
Marisha: (cartoonish ghost noises)
Will: (cartoonish ghost noises)
Matt: You guys watch as both of these ghostly entities (whoosh) completely slip into the physical form of Vax and Keyleth, who each shudder for a second as their eyes glaze over. Both the entities are no longer visible. However, you feel the presence of a cold, invading mind full of anger and distant loss and rage fill your brain, and your body is not your own.
Marisha: Sorry, guys.
Liam: This is going to be fun.
Matt: Suddenly you see Vax pull his daggers out and turn around and look at the rest of the group. Keyleth turns around and snarls at the rest of the group, this twisted grin.
Liam: (whispering) They call me Count Chocula. (laughter)
Matt: Thorbir, you're up.
Wil: I am going to make a goading attack to try and draw whoever's closer.
Matt: Closest to you would be Keyleth. Keyleth is right next to you.
Marisha: I don't even know what to do.
Wil: Yeah, so I'm just going to make a goading attack, and if I hit, then they come after me. Or she comes after me. I'm pretty sure I don't hit. I don't know why I'm rolling. Sorry, that's a four on my first roll.
Liam: Use this one; it's quicker.
Wil: (laughs) Oh, 14. I'm sorry. I can't remember. Oh, plus ten. 24.
Matt: 24 versus Keyleth? What's your armor class?
Marisha: 17.
Matt: 17. That hits Keyleth.
Wil: Sorry about this.
Marisha: It's okay. Just keep me alive, Cashew.
Wil: Can I pull the attack to not do as much damage? I mean, other than the way I usually roll dice. Can I hit her with like the blunt side of the axe--
Matt: You can say subdual damage. It'll still damage her.
Wil: Okay. Should I roll my regular attack dice?
Matt: Yeah, your regular attack dice.
Wil: 15 points of damage.
Matt: 15 points of damage to you, Keyleth, as you get smacked broadside with the blunt edge of Thorbir's axe. You see this happening, and in your head you're screaming, trying to push this out, but no matter how hard your will imposes itself, your body is not your own. You feel like you're restrained in a dark closet, watching from a distant hallway as somebody else controls your body.
Wil: So I have to expend a superiority die, and I add this-- yeah. Oh, fuck you! Now you're going to work? So that's nine more points. Sorry.
Matt: Nine more points of damage on top of that.
Wil: And then the target needs to make a wisdom saving throw.
Matt: All right. I will make that the ghost creature. That is a 16.
Wil: Yeah.
Matt: What's the DC on it?
Wil: I don't know. It doesn't say.
Matt: Is this for your battlemaster, for goading attack?
Wil: Yeah.
Matt: Goading attack with battlemaster.
Wil: Sorry, nerds. I don't play this version.
Liam: Would it be his wisdom?
Wil: My wisdom saving throw is two. My wisdom is plus two.
Matt: Okay. Oh, the DC is eight plus your proficiency bonus, which would be 12, plus your-- what's your strength modifier?
Wil: Four.
Matt: Four, so that'd be 16. 16. So yeah, it just makes the saving throw.
Wil: Oh. Well. Glad I wounded my friend for no good reason. Okay.
Marisha: It makes its saving throw?
Wil: So it makes its saving throw, so nothing happens.
Matt: Right, so that was your first two strikes.
Marisha: So he just punched me for no reason?
Wil: Yeah, I'm not going to make my third attack. I don't want to hurt anybody.
Matt: Vax, you don't get a turn. You are unable to control your body, and you also do not get a saving throw. You are considered possessed. Kash, you're up.
Will: I don't know if this is possible. Can I use Banishment and target one of the ghosts that's actually possessing them?
Matt: You have no way of knowing how to target the creature. There is no visual or physical form. You just see your friend with a glazed-over look in the eyes, and that cold sensation around them. You have some experience with undead, and you know you have some tools against them, but Banishment is something that you have no way of targeting the spirit within them. You would have to target them physically.
Will: I think what you said was right; we might have to knock them out. So maybe we target one at a time? I hold Vax, and you come in.
Marisha: I have 13 hit points.
Orion: Yeah, you should definitely--
Will: Should do that. Okay. Yeah, I'm going to cast Hold Person, and I'm going to hold Vax as tight as I can.
Matt: All right. What's the spell DC for you?
Will: It is 16.
Matt: And is that wisdom saving throw on that?
Will: Is that right?
Matt: Let's see, Hold Person. Wisdom, all right. Go ahead and make a will saving throw, Vax. Or wisdom saving throw.
Marisha: Fail it. Something I'll never say to you.
Liam: 17.
Matt: 17.
Marisha: What's his DC? What's your DC? Or is it versus his wisdom?
Will: 16.
Matt: 16. Defeats it. The spell effect shimmers off.
Liam: Right now, me and ghost in my mind are doing that scene from Ghost with the pottery.
Will: And my spell just can't get to you. Damn it.
Matt: All right, so that finishes your turn. Do you want to move anywhere, or are you going to stay where you are?
Will: Yeah, I think I'm going to have to tuck tail and run. Let's try to split them up, at least, if we can.
Matt: Okay. Which way do you want to go?
Will: Really? You want to get them together? Then let's do that. All right, fair enough. Let's get them together.
Orion: Over here, Kashaw!
Will: Yeah. Let's move. I want to go with Stormdragon.
Matt: As you move back, Keyleth, you get an attack of opportunity on him. Go ahead and roll an attack with your staff.
Marisha: Sorry, Cashew. Ooh, critical fail. I don't want to!
Will: I think she might like me!
Matt: As there is the mental struggle going on in Keyleth's mind, this swing has extreme intensity and then halfway through, just streaks off and slams into the stone wall. Part of the staff splinters and breaks at the edge. It's still functional, but definitely took a hit from the wall.
Marisha: My favorite staff!
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Keyleth, you lose your turn. Up at the top of the round, Tiberius.
Marisha: Can we not try and save from it? We can't do shit? We're just on auto-pilot, at this point?
Matt: Does anyone here at the top of this round want to make a religion check? Does anyone here want to make a religion check?
Will: Might as well, right?
Matt: Yeah, you've had some experience with death and undeath in your history.
Orion: 20?
Matt: 20. Not you.
Will: So plus seven. It's a six. No, it was nine. 16.
Matt: 16. Okay. You've heard of certain creatures, ghosts, that can possess certain entities. When a creature is possessed, you know from your experience that it is very difficult to remove the possession unless it's through some sort of a ritual that forces undead away, or if the actual person is brought to unconsciousness and near death themself. Tiberius, you have the same visual on this, though a little part of your brain says, wait. You've seen Pike do something that scared undead before. Top of the round, brings us to Tiberius.
Orion: I take no pleasure in this. I cast Obelisk of Stone and crush them.
Marisha: Crush who?
Orion: Both of them.
Matt: You don't have visual on Vax, currently. There's a wall.
Orion: I'll move forward and then do it.
Matt: Okay. You move up to there and do it?
Orion: Or as close as I can, as far away as I can see Vax.
Matt: Cool. So currently, these two stone pillars slam and crush both of you towards the ceiling.
Liam: No, Tiberius-- !
Matt: Well, it's a dexterity saving throw, right? So both of you make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: I rolled 22.
Marisha: It's not going to be good. Yeah, I rolled an 18.
Matt: So take half damage.
Orion: No, they take the damage. They're not pinned. They just take the damage.
Matt: So they both take the damage.
Marisha: Probably unconscious.
Orion: 31 points of damage.
Marisha: I'm unconscious.
Matt: Keyleth, you fall unconscious on the ground, forcing the spiritual entity out of your body.
Orion: I'm going to spend two sorcery points to quicken a spell and then cast Scorching Ray right at it. (fire blasts)
Matt: Okay. Go for it. So go ahead and roll for the attack on each of them. Since it was forced out, it is not in melee with you because it is far enough away, so you straight roll for these.
Orion: What is that? Oh, plus my spell attack. Okay, so 16 was one, 19, and 19.
Matt: All hit. Go ahead and roll damage for each. Just give me a total damage.
Orion: Two, four, six.
Liam: Rock that math, come on.
Orion: Okay, that's ten and 15, and then 18, 23.
Matt: 23? Okay. You release all three Scorching Rays blasting into the ghost. It's impacting, but the bursts seem to detonate through it. You can see it's taking the hits, but it seems almost like because of its ethereal form, it's not feeling the full brunt of the attacks. It's affected by it, and you can see its form being shuddered around by it, but it's not as effective as you're used to them being. That ends your turn, Tiberius. This creature here. Okay, it does not regain its possession ability. It is going to use Horrifying Visage. All of a sudden, the ghost (roars) Ghostbusters style. It grows and it's just a horrible screaming entity. I need all of you except for Vax to go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Orion: That's negative. That's 16.
Matt: 16?
Wil: 13.
Will: 12.
Matt: 12. All of you guys manage to shrug off the effect. You, however. There's something about the way it screamed that for a moment, you swear it had a face similar to Vesh from your wedding night. It clutches your heart, and you are considered frightened for the next minute. That means you cannot move closer to it, and your attacks against it are at a disadvantage until you shrug it off. All right, then the possessed Vax is going to, as his bonus action, attempt to make a stealth check and back out of the way. Goes against the wall. If I could have Thorbir and Tiberius make perception checks.
Liam: Don't I make a stealth check?
Matt: I'm making it for you.
Wil: Oh, look at that!
Liam: He got 19!
Marisha: Oh my god!
Wil: All right. 24.
Matt: 24. Nice.
Orion: I failed.
Matt: You failed? Okay. You see, out of the corner of your eye, a couple of footsteps as Vax comes rushing up. You do not see it, though, and as Vax turns the corner right here, brings out the daggers and goes towards Tiberius, out of the corner of your eye, you see a flash of light. Actually, no. You make the attack roll on this. Attack roll against Tiberius.
Liam: Oh, yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Wait, he has to roll at disadvantage. Cloak.
Matt: Right, but he has advantage on you because you didn't see him, so it cancels it out.
Liam: That's true, yeah. My cloak gives you disadvantage.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll with sneak attack damage against Tiberius.
Liam: Okay. That is a nine plus five, ten, 22, 24. That's 33.
Matt: 33 points of piercing damage against you.
Orion: What's half of that?
Matt: No Stoneskin. You've already cast a concentration spell. Right, but when you cast one, the other one lasts for two more rounds, and you started with True Strike.
Marisha: It's also been way over a minute.
Orion: It's an hour-long spell. I can still hold another one and do a different one, and hold the other spell.
Matt: How it works is whenever you cast a new concentration spell, the other one lasts for two rounds, and then vanishes. I think this should be the last round that you have it, because it's been two rounds since you moved back. So this would be the last round that you have it. So you still have it, but it fades after this round. So halve that.
Orion: That's 16? 17 points?
Matt: Actually, and Stoneskin only works against non-magical. So no, you take full damage because his daggers are magic.
Orion: Both daggers are magical?
Matt: All of his daggers are magical.
Marisha: Yeah, we're only rolling with magical weapons at this point, yo.
Matt: So you take full damage.
Orion: Okay, cool. That's actually great to know. I'm actually happy about that.
Matt: And you do not have your bonus action because you used that to hide. So that's the one attack you got. That round's over.
Liam: There's no save or anything?
Matt: Not for this. Not until someone somehow forces the undead entity out of your body or drops you to zero hit points.
Liam: Let's go to the bar.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Thorbir.
Wil: (sighs) If I see this correctly, there's this spectral creature in front of me and my possessed friend to my left. Is that right?
Matt: Correct. Actually, Keyleth, make a saving throw.
Marisha: I'm unconscious. Oh, right. Because I'm unconscious. Seven.
Matt: Mark off a death saving throw. Thorbir?
Wil: Okay. Thorbir is going to-- I'm sorry. 16.
Matt: Total of 16?
Wil: Yeah, total of 16.
Liam: 17.
Matt: 17. Whiffs. He's too fast. He ducks underneath the depth of the axe swing.
Wil: Okay. Second attack. 18?
Matt: 18 will hit. Go ahead and roll damage on that.
Wil: And I want to do that same thing.
Matt: Goading attack? Okay.
Wil: Sorry, no. Those are 20-siders. I'm like, how did I roll a 19 on a d12? 15 plus six. 21.
Matt: Are you rolling 2d12 for damage on that?
Wil: Yeah. My damage is 2d12 plus six slashing damage.
Matt: For a great axe, I think it should be 1d12. I'm pretty sure.
Wil: I'm happy to make it 1d12.
Matt: (laughs) Just as a note, yeah. The great axe is 1d12 damage.
Wil: Oh. Well, I don't know why it says 2d12, then.
Matt: That's okay.
Wil: All right, so that's ten.
Matt: So ten damage to you. Goading attack, it failed its saving throw. It rolled an 11. It failed its saving throw. As you slam, you can see the spiritual anger in the eyes (growls) turn towards you, and it's focused on you at the moment.
Wil: And I'm going to make my third attack. So everyone knows that things have gotten back to normal.
Will: The world is right again!
Wil: Everything's fine.
Matt: The third strike, you swing and you swear it's going right for the torso of Vax, and for a second you almost want to restrain because you're afraid of what it's going to do, before all of a sudden both daggers catch the axe in midair and scissor-hold it before it shoves off the blade. However, it does appear to be focused on you. Does that end your turn?
Wil: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm supposed to expend another superiority die. I'm sorry, this is a whole new mechanic.
Matt: That's okay. It's a new mechanic for me, too.
Wil: Okay, so I add one more to my damage roll, and that was it. That was the only attack that landed.
Matt: All right, that brings us to Brother Kash.
Will: Who still can't move, correct?
Matt: You can't move closer.
Will: Well, what I'd like to do is, if I know I'm going to be rolling everything essentially at a disadvantage, I'd like to at least help the people that are still standing as much as I can, so I'd like to Bless Stormwind and Thorbir. And can I do myself, as well? It's up to three creatures.
Matt: Then yes, you can.
Will: And myself, as well.
Matt: Okay, so you are all currently affected by a Bless spell. What a Bless spell does-- if you want to read it real fast.
Will: Bless up to three creatures of your choice within range. Whenever a target makes an attack roll or a saving throw before the spell ends, the target can roll a d4 and add the number rolled to the attack roll or saving throw.
Liam: It's hard to accept love from others when you hate yourself.
Wil: No one hates themselves as much as I do.
Matt: All right, so do you want to move?
Will: I can only move back and forth, right? Then let me stay there so I can concentrate as much as I can on holding the blessing.
Marisha: An attack roll or saving throw?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Can he target me? And would it work for my saving throws?
Matt: I think you have to be a conscious creature for the Bless spell to affect you. You do, however, get your saving throw at the end of your turn to try to shrug off the fright, so roll that. And you can add a d4 to it.
Will: So it's a d20 plus a four.
Matt: Yeah, with your wisdom, and then add a d4 to it.
Will: 19. Was that right? And wait, it's for wisdom?
Matt: Yes.
Will: So it's 19, then, plus-- where is wisdom? Plus nine, so 28.
Matt: Okay, yeah.
Will: Plus d4, right?
Matt: Plus d4 if you want to add it. Go for it.
Will: One. 29.
Matt: You slam your foot into the ground for a second and focus, and for a second the divine energy pulses through your body, and you let a little bit of Vesh's essence seep into you, against your better judgment. It gives you that sense of bravery to shrug off the fear you felt, and for a second there, you're like, as a healing cleric, undead should be afraid of you. And you remember that there's an ability that you have called Turn Undead that may come in handy, going forward. That ends your turn. Keyleth, make another saving throw.
Marisha: (sighs) Let's use this one. This is a big, shiny die. 17.
Matt: 17? Okay. So you're still unconscious.
Marisha: I'm good!
Matt: Tiberius, you're up. (louder) Tiberius! You're up.
Orion: Keyleth is right next to me, right?
Matt: She's currently on the ground. You can see a little bit of blood trickling out the corner of her mouth from the injury she sustained from the crushing pillar. You can see a little of the light fading from her eyes.
Orion: Vax is right next to me, also? Can I move, probably take a hit from him, and drag her with me?
Matt: You can do that, yeah. That will be your whole turn, but yeah, you can do that.
Orion: That's what I choose to do.
Matt: Okay. So Tiberius, you reach down, you grab Keyleth's body, and you pull her back through the hallway. You can get her, probably about half-speed, which is 30, so 15 feet. That far back, out of the fray. Go ahead and make an attack of opportunity against Tiberius as he moves away.
Liam: Okay. That's shit. I rolled a 12.
Matt: Total of 12? Okay. As you swing back, you dodge out of the way as you're pulling her along the floor. That's your turn. This ghost entity here does not get its possession back. It's going to make a Withering Touch against you, Thorbir.
Wil: Damn it!
Matt: With a 13.
Wil: Against my--
Matt: Yeah.
Wil: No. 20.
Matt: As you reach out, you manage to pull back with your axe and swing in its direction. It dissipates its form for a second, and the attack whiffs through the air. However, as you pull on that side, Vax comes up from behind you. I want you to go ahead and do two attacks against Thorbir, with advantage.
Liam: With advantage on both attacks or one?
Matt: You currently have him flanked.
Liam: Because of my ghost friend.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: So the first is high.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: 28. Second is a one.
Matt: And another roll. They both have advantage because you have him flanked.
Liam: Come on, one. (mutters) 19.
Matt: Okay, so roll damage for both. First one with sneak attack.
Liam: Doesn't he have an armor class of 20? Doesn't one of them miss? Wouldn't a 19 miss his 20 armor?
Matt: It was a total 19. I thought you rolled a 19.
Liam: No, one was a total 19.
Matt: Oh, then the second one doesn't hit. Just the first one does.
Liam: So the first one does, and that is-- okay, that's the lowest this could possibly be. Seven plus nine, 12, 16, 17, 24.
Wil: Ouch. That's a lot of damage.
Matt: All right, that ends the ghosts' turn. Thorbir, you're up. You've now got the attention of both spiritual entities and your possessed friend, and they're both swarming around you at the moment.
Wil: Okay, great. I have this deal. (chuckles) I'm sorry, I don't remember what it's called. I have a maneuver where if I hit a thing, I can hit a second thing. Let's just see if I hit. I'm going to go ahead and try to hit Vax again.
Matt: Okay.
Wil: Two is probably not going to hit him. Probably not going to happen. I'm thinking two's probably not going to be-- it's a total of 12, but I'm still pretty confident that 12 doesn't hit him. Yeah. I'm pretty sure that misses. Okay, let's try again. I get three attacks. That's right. Let's see here. Oh, a four. Okay, so four. Let's see, so that's 14. So I'm thinking the 14 is probably not going to hit him. All right, let's try one more time. Come on, right? And oh, that's a seven. So that's a 17.
Liam: Tag.
Wil: Oh!
Matt: You find purchase with your third strike with your axe.
Wil: I just need time to warm up! I'm thinking about my daughter. So I guess I hit you.
Liam: I don't like this game. I don't really like this episode.
Wil: I make a precision attack, so I can add one more die to the roll.
Liam: Come on, clock me, War and Peace. Let's do this.
Wil: I'm working on it.
Marisha: War and Peace?
Wil: Oh, good. So that's a one on the d12, plus six, seven, plus nine is 16.
Matt: 16 points of slashing damage to you.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: Do you wish to move, or are you going to stay where you are, Thorbir?
Wil: I would like to no longer be flanked by them, if that's at all possible. So I will move back. Sure.
Matt: I'll say you can move there pretty safely. Move the other way. All right, that brings us to Kashaw.
Will: Okay. I'm going to Channel Divinity  Turn Undead.
Matt: Turn Undead. Okay, what's the radius on that?
Will: 30 feet.
Matt: 30 feet. You're probably going to have to move a little closer to get them both in there.
Will: I want to get as close as I can, right on the 30-foot radius.
Matt: All right. Not a problem. So you're going to go ahead and Turn Undead. As you reach up and grab your holy symbol, pulling it out from under your armor once again, clutching it tightly, you can feel the blood begin to pour from the inside of your hand, you're holding it so hard. And with a flash of extremely vibrant white light with this strange halo of pitch black that surrounds it, a force wave billows out from you throughout the hallway. For a brief moment, you see Vax look over, and his eyes widen for a second as the blast wave hits him.
Will: You're stronger than that.
Liam: You have a fan.
Will: I just think it would be funny. Hit pedals like a guitar. You can just change your thing. Fan. Rain.
Matt: Both fail. All right. So suddenly, as the blast wave hits Vax, the spirit is forced out of his body against the wall. It pushes it out, and all of a sudden, you have control of your form again. Blown against the wall, and they both halfway slide into the wall. They both have a severe look of fear on their face. That's going to end your turn. Keyleth, make another saving throw.
Marisha: Eight.
Matt: So a second failed death saving throw.
Marisha: Someone pump some life into me!
Matt: Tiberius.
Orion: Yeah, I'm going to pop one of my simple potions.
Matt: Okay, just the level one?
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll. That is 2d4 plus two.
Orion: Okay. That's seven.
Matt: Seven? Okay, you heal seven hit points. You come to consciousness.
Marisha: (gasps)
Matt: You get rid of the saving throws. You look around. Your eyes focus and you can see now, there's these two glowing entities, the ghosts that attacked. The one that was inside you is now over against the wall and looks like it's dissipating and is extremely frightened by something.
Orion: Can I use the rest of my turn to help her up?
Matt: Sure. You go ahead and prop her up to her feet.
Orion: All right, and that's my turn.
Matt: Okay. For their turn, they both fade into the wall and vanish from sight.
Marisha: They were so cold.
Matt: So all of you take a moment of stillness, as the spiritual entities seem to have vanished into the wall.
Marisha: Oh, they left?
Matt: They left after he blasted them with his shockwave of positive energy. They just went into the wall.
Marisha: You scared them with positive energy?
Will: Unfortunately, the only kind of energy I'm allowed to use, most of the time.
Liam: You told me, when I pick-pocketed that guy topside, it was a healing potion. It was blue, right? That's what you told me.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: I'm pulling that out of my pocket and walking over to that door in a daze and I just down it, push the door open with my foot.
Matt: Okay. That is a greater healing potion. 4d4 plus four.
Orion: Are you moving forward?
Marisha: Are you moving forward?
Liam: No. Well, yeah. Sort of.
Orion: Vex, no! Stop! What are you doing?
Liam: My name is Vax! And I keep going.
Orion: That's what I said.
Matt: Okay, you kick the door open. You have very little light source in here, but with your vision, you manage to look in past there, and it looks like it's a hallway that was once used for storage of some kind, but the first thing that catches you is that strange chemical smell is extremely strong in this room, and your eyes burn as soon as the doorway opens and you have to close your eyes. Thorbir, you see Vax kick the door open.
Marisha: Wait. Vax, slow down.
Wil: I follow him.
Marisha: You guys.
Orion: I do not follow.
Matt: You do not follow? Okay, Tiberius stays back. You guys are all staying there?
Will: I'd like to call everyone together, if I could, first. Let's take a moment.
Liam: I'm just looking. I take another potion, because I have one more. And I'm going to look down the hall.
Wil: Wait, friend. I give him a potion of superior healing.
Will: You know I'm a healer, right? You can save your potions.
Liam: Save it. What's that? Superior is a 4d4?
Matt: Superior's another 4d4, yeah. You guys can take a short rest, if you wish to, and also use your hit dice.
Marisha: Can I get some healing? Will you use some of that positive energy on me?
Will: Of course I will.
Orion: I will go no further until I take a proper rest.
Liam: I'm just going to look down that hall.
Matt: Okay. Both of you guys, as you enter the room, and your Darkvision looks out, you see the room that has that strong chemical scent, parts of the wall have crumbled in sections, ruining this long, empty hallway. You can see there are elements of broken boxes and crates that have been sundered or removed or destroyed in the collapse. But what catches your attention, too, is a large portion of the floor seems to be lower than the rest of it. There is some sort of a liquid that has largely overtaken the entirety of this room. Something has seeped through from some unseen source, and has slowly, over time, dissolved a large pit into the center of this hallway. This dull yellowish-green liquid now fills the entirety of the center portion of this hallway for a good, let's say, about that distance, there.
Liam: Okay. I put my hand on Thorbir's hand and guide him back out and shut the door and say, it's fucking acid in that room. I just sit on the ground.
Wil: Of course it is.
Marisha: Vax?
Liam: I'm back in the hall with you. Acid-filled room. I'm going to rest. Let's all just take a breather.
Marisha: Can we make camp? I'm hurting really bad.
Will: Let's take a moment here.
Orion: I agree. We've been hit pretty hard, pretty quickly.
Liam: Do you want to camp, or do you want to take a breather?
Marisha: Just take a rest. Actually, I have something that I think will make us all feel better. And I prepare a Heroes' Feast.
Orion: You have those?
Marisha: I do now.
Orion: What does that do?
Marisha: I'll tell you.
Orion: Are there bananas?
Liam: It's a 20-foot-long hoagie.
Marisha: Yes, it's the 20-foot-long Subway dealio.
Will: No, not Subway.
Liam: Too soon. (laughter)
Matt: Marisha. Just a heads-up. One of the material components is a gem-encrusted bowl that costs 1000 gold pieces that is consumed by it. You can totally cast this, but you'll have to deduct a thousand gold off your personal gold supply.
Will: How much money have you got?
Marisha: Like 3k, I think.
Will: You have 3k? You said you were single?
Marisha: All right, fine. I'll do it.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: You guys, I've just had a near-death experience. I've been craving some lasagna. Okay? So I'm going to make some of the best goddamn lasagna we've ever had in our life. I'm going to spend a thousand dollars and make some amazing fucking lasagna.
Orion: What are dollars?
Marisha: A thousand gold.
Will: What's lasagna?
Liam: It's a tribal food that her people eat. It's vegetarian.
Will: If she's spending the money, I'll eat.
Matt: So as you guys take a few moments to tend to your wounds and catch your breath, Keyleth finds a section of the center of this dank, dreary prison and concentrates, taking this gem-encrusted bowl and setting it in the center of the floor. As time goes on, you begin to see this strange, shimmering energy in the center of the room. At the end of the ritual, she raises her hand in the air, and through a plume of whitish-silver smoke that slowly dissipates, you can now see there is a long table. A very well-crafted table in the center of the room, with chairs and benches, and an extremely well-prepared, incredible-smelling meal. Fruits and breads and meats all just strewn about this table in the center of this prison.
Marisha: Okay, everybody. Close your eyes. Okay? Tiberius, will you make the little forks dance for me with Mage Hand?
Orion: Sure.
Marisha: Okay. Are you guys ready? (singing) Be our guest, be our guest, put our service to the test!
Will: Is this a thing? Is this happening right now?
Marisha: Look, I'm making a musical out of our food. People pay a lot of money for this.
Liam: She set it out. Have a seat. Eat the food.
Orion: Thank you, Keyleth.
Marisha: I thought that was funny.
Liam: I just start eating. I'm wiped out.
Matt: All right. You guys can use as many hit dice as you want to heal yourself. If you check on your sheet, it has a hit dice number. Use those to heal yourself naturally.
Marisha: So after we eat all of this food, we are cured of all diseases and poisons. We become immune to poison and being frightened, and all of our wisdom saving throws have advantage. Also, our maximum hit points increase by 2d10.
Will: For how long?
Marisha: 24 hours. And you gain the same number of hit points. So don't spend any of your hit dice. We're going to eat our way to health.
Matt: Well, no. You still spend your hit dice. Meaning, you gain 2d10 hit points.
Marisha: And it gains the same number of hit points. Oh.
Matt: So you increase the maximum and you heal up what you gained.
Marisha: Okay. I see what it means.
Will: So how do you heal yourself, then?
Matt: Where it says hit dice, on your page? It should be toward the middle, right above your attacks.
Will: Yeah.
Matt: You can spend up to your top level and you roll a dice with the number you have for your hit dice, and you heal that much. So what's the number that you have there?
Will: Total is 11. 1d8 plus three.
Matt: So you can spend up to 11 if you want to, and heal up that much naturally.
Will: But I wasn't taking any damage. That's the thing.
Matt: Then you don't have to worry about it. You're fine.
Marisha: Why did you burn all of your sorcerer points? We told you not to burn all of your sorcerer points. We don't have time to sit here and take a full rest.
Will: I can still cure everybody, you know. I can heal everybody. The wounds.
Matt: Use your hit dice to heal yourself. You commence on the meal, and it is a very delightful meal.
Marisha: You can ask the group, but I have a feeling that Vax and Thorbir aren't going to want to take a full rest down here.
Liam: He's going to get gone. That guy or that gal.
Will: Both of them.
Wil: It's a thing.
Liam: I don't want to go on a date with it. I want to kill it.
Will: So while we're sitting here, can I cast Locate Creature? Oh, wait. Here's a question that I have. How much time has passed since the last time I cast it?
Matt: I'd say, with shopping time, it's probably been about six hours.
Liam: We're on the clock, here.
Matt: How long does it last?
Orion: We're still on day one.
Will: It lasts for up to an hour.
Matt: So yeah, you'd have to re-cast it.
Will: Yeah. But that's my question. My level-4 spells, I cast three of them last game, so do I get those back for this one? They're gone, right? I can't cast. So that's what I thought. I can't cast Locate Creature. I wish I could help.
Matt: Yeah, Locate Creature currently cannot be cast. You spent all your 4th level.
Liam: How long does everything last from that feast, Keyleth?
Marisha: 24 hours. So we can still take a long rest and still have benefits from the feast. It lasts for 24 hours.
Wil: If we wait, it escapes.
Will: He's a day longer away, and we only have three days to do this.
Wil: And who's to say more guards won't come down. How will we explain ourselves to them? And what if those things come back?
Marisha: I actually have a Locate Creature spell. I can do it.
Orion: Well, I'll tell you this, everyone. I have only a limited amount of spells left to be effective in a fight against a creature like this. I have no melee offenses towards this creature, whatsoever, so that's going to be up to you with magical weapons and whatnot, I'm assuming. I'm virtually tapped out of all my spells. So is the cleric, as well. So if we move forward, that's fine. We're only six hours in on the first day of this contract.
Marisha: Well, the cleric is burned out of 4th-level spells. Cleric is good.
Will: It's time or it's strength. That's what we're talking about. We wait and we go in, fully charged. Or we go now and we have a much better chance of catching up to it, but weakened.
Orion: I will follow the group.
Will: As will I.
Will: You're in charge. What do you say?
Wil: Oh, now I'm in charge?
Will: You've always been in charge. Because you chose not to lead was your own fault.
Wil: We go.
Will: We go.
Marisha: Can I get another healing spell, then, Cashew?
Will: Why don't I do Mass Cure Wounds on everybody?
Marisha: Oh, that would be great.
Liam: I'm already good.
Will: You're good?
Liam: Yeah. I flip my last potion to Keyleth. It's a superior.
Marisha: So what are those? 2d8?
Matt: It's 8d4 plus eight. Did you use your hit dice to heal yourself?
Marisha: I did. 8d4?
Matt: 8d4 plus eight. Big heal.
Will: Let's see if you're even going to need me to mass cure.
Marisha: (quietly) Let me get more d4s out. I'll do this twice. That will be enough. Four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. Oh, that's good. Eight, so that's 15, 19, 22, plus another eight?
Matt: Plus another eight, yeah.
Marisha: So 30. Cool. Awesome.
Will: So is everybody good? Anybody need healing?
Orion: I'm fine.
Will: You sure?
Marisha: I mean, you knew we were on a time crunch, Tiberius.
Orion: We have days left.
Marisha: We were chasing him down a hall.
Liam: We don't have an egg timer. He just ran down here. He could fly to Timbuktu. Go to Kraghammer. Hang out with Johnny Kraghammer.
Orion: (laughs) I like Johnny Kraghammer.
Will: Johnny Kraghammer.
Liam: Long story, Kash. Let's go. I'm going to slowly push that door open and try to use perception in the room.
Matt: In this room?
Liam: Yeah. If that crud is moving.
Matt: Okay. Were you about to do something, Keyleth?
Liam: And try to see a door on the far end.
Marisha: Actually, you know what? Here's what I'm going to do instead. Let me double-check and make sure I can do this.
Matt: As you look inside, you walk up to the liquid. It looks like there is a very slow flow to it, coming at an angle. It's very thick and looks like it's melted through the basis of the floor and almost like it would continue under, around, and out of this room into whatever is beyond. You get a feeling there is something to why this part of the prison was probably abandoned.
Liam: Wait a tic. Wait a sec. I back out slowly, and I'm going to creep back to the other door. That other one, yeah. Perception check there, as well. That's 16.
Matt: Okay. The door is not currently locked.
Liam: Okay, and does that count for the traps, as well?
Matt: Yeah, it's not trapped, either.
Liam: Okay, so I'm going to open it an inch and see what I can see.
Matt: Look inside. There is a large collapsed pile of rubble. Whatever this room once was has entirely collapsed on itself. You can see, it's pushed up against the door. Something made this room inert, and it's not currently functional.
Liam: Acid, it is.
Will: Acid alley is the only way to go.
Wil: Wait, there's a door at the end of this hallway.
Liam: That's what I just looked in.
Wil: A third door.
Liam: Oh, a third door. I thought there was two.
Wil: There's a third door. I once knew someone who met a bad fate in acid. I would prefer to not encounter it myself.
Orion: Yes, I agree.
Wil: He was a good man.
Orion: I heard he was brave. Very brave.
Will: I never heard about this. How did you hear about this?
Wil: He was a good man who was murdered by the gods.
Orion: It is legend.
Will: The acid guy is legend? All right.
Wil: I go walking down the hallway, this way.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, what are you doing? You're meditating?
Marisha: Let me wait until he opens this door.
Matt: Okay.
Wil: I'll make a perception check at that door.
Matt: Go for it.
Wil: 11.
Matt: All right. The door does not appear to be trapped. You don't know if it's locked yet. It's hard to tell.
Liam: Just, allow me. You're strong.
Wil: That's what they say.
Liam: That's 27.
Matt: It is also, from your perspective, not locked or trapped.
Marisha: Okay, now I'm going to drop to my knees and cast Locate Creature.
Matt: Okay. As you're finishing your small ritual for Locate Creature, you open up the door, and it is a spiral staircase that leads upward. You get the sensation this is where those earlier Bastions were coming from.
Will: No acid.
Matt: No acid in this room, no.
Marisha: Just a staircase up?
Matt: You finish Locate Creature, and you sit there, and you can sense, grasping on that one encounter you had with the rakshasa, though it was still disguised as a dwarf, and the descriptor you have. And you recognize this immediately. This is the same type of ritual that you did earlier, and so there's now this weird, synchronous moment that you share magical knowledge.
Will: And she has money.
Matt: And she has money. Though a thousand less, now. You finish your concentration for a second, and the divine energy pulls you in a direction, and it pulls you in the direction of this way.
Marisha: I'm sorry. I think we're going to need to go through the acid.
Wil: Very well.
Liam: My armor is resistant to acid. Let me lead the way. Is there any shit sitting around? Any rubbish?
Matt: There are clumps of what looks like a destroyed crate, pieces of stone that have fallen from the partially collapsed walls.
Liam: I'm going to pull up a plank of that crate.
Orion: As he's doing this, I cast Fly on Thorbir, Keyleth, the cleric, and Vax. And myself.
Matt: You can only cast it on three people.
Orion: I can cast it at 6th level.
Matt: 6th level. It's one additional person per spell level.
Orion: I'm terrible at math. Not Vax.
Wil: With your math and my rolling, we are a formidable team.
Orion: Us four.
Matt: All right. It's a 3rd-level spell, so you can do four. Okay. So against who?
Liam: Everyone but me.
Matt: Everyone but you. Okay. So.
Marisha: Oh, wait. We brought the flying carpet with us. It's in your Bag of Holding.
Will: You have a flying carpet?
Orion: Oh. Yes.
Liam: Well, there's that.
Will: That would be helpful. To fly over things. Like pools of acid.
Marisha: Why don't we pull that out?
Will: Yeah. That's a good idea.
Matt: As you're pulling out the flying carpet, we're going to go ahead and take a break. Quick restroom break for about five minutes or so, and we'll come right back to continue as they enter the room with a rather large pit of acid. We'll be back in five minutes, guys. See you in a second.
Marisha: Acid pit! [break]
Matt: Welcome back, guys! Before we get back to the game, Orion, you want to talk about that video?
Orion: Yeah. That Disney princess shit you saw was Lewberger, and they're playing tomorrow at Gather Your Party on this channel, and I will be performing songs with Alex Lewis, who's half of Lewberger, and I get to call Zac a dumdum for once. Zac the dumdum played the one video that I'm not in.
Zac: Technically, the video I was sent ten minutes before show started.
Orion: Was through Alex, so he's the dumdum now. Sorry about that, for the confusion. That's what's going on. You'll see me dance like a monkey tomorrow.
Matt: Yeah. That's okay. It was a hell of a way to break the tension, so it worked out well. All right, so as the rest of you have found your way into this long, partially eroded hallway containing this thick green viscous liquid, you have pulled out the flying carpet?
Marisha: Yes. We all fit on it, right?
Orion: Oh yeah, we can all get on this one.
Liam: Do you maybe want to sparrow across, Keyleth?
Marisha: Oh! We took a short rest. I could.
Liam: Then I get to come.
Wil: What's happening?
Matt: We have flying carpets.
Marisha: We have flying carpets.
Matt: Built by some of our amazing Critters. I'm going to go ahead and go with the crocheted one tonight.
Wil: That's fantastic.
Will: Crocheting is fantastic, and a wonderful way to spend your time.
Wil: You guys have the best fans.
Matt: We really do.
Liam: You guys are pretty great.
Marisha: Okay, we all fit! We're good.
Liam: Oh, we all fit on it? Oh, look at that.
Marisha: Let's go.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Onward!
Matt: You drift down the hallway on the flying carpet.
Liam: Staring at the slime on the ground.
Matt: The air itself, like I said, it hurts. You have to continuously rub your eyes and keep them shut.
Marisha: I make a nice little wind zephyr to give us a little airflow.
Matt: Okay. As you move partway through this section, everyone make a perception check.
Orion: Oh, natural 20.
Will: Nice.
Will: 19.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: Who's helming the magic carpet, by the way?
Liam: Looks like Kash is.
Orion: I am helming the damn magic carpet, of course.
Matt: All right. So you're helming the magic carpet.
Wil: I rolled a six plus a 12 total, 12.
Matt: And you rolled a total of what?
Orion: Natural 20.
Matt: Natural 20.
Liam: 26.
Matt: So pulling forward, as you come around through the sections of the wall that are collapsed in rubble, you notice that there are some sigils in the wall. Two-foot-high carved-stone sigils about five feet ahead of you guys. There's one on each side.
Orion: Are they infernal?
Matt: It is not infernal. They are arcane in nature, though. Make an arcana check.
Liam: Sometimes I really hate this old-world shit.
Will: Can I do a religion check on them?
Matt: You can, yes.
Orion: I got ten, so I figured.
Will: 15.
Matt: Okay. There doesn't appear to be much religious connotation to these symbols, but they're old, and it looks like they were placed there for a specific reason. That's as much as you can get from it.
Liam: Can I make out any traps or anything in the ceilings or the walls?
Matt: You can make a perception check. Tiberius points it out to the rest of you guys, and you can see it.
Liam: But nothing in addition to that.
Matt: No. Especially for you, your experience doesn't fall too much in the realm of the arcane.
Marisha: Could I do a history check?
Matt: You can try.
Marisha: Why not?
Liam: How about handle animals, man?
Matt: Try every skill. Just go through the whole list.
Marisha: 12.
Matt: Yeah, there's nothing really historic about this, other than the fact that you're in the historic Amaranthine Oubliette prison here.
Wil: Did anyone make an arcana check? And we didn't find anything out? Is this something that my stonecunning skills would be relevant to?
Matt: It's not structural. In looking at it, it looks like these were added to it once it was built, although it is a storage room, so it's strange that these would be placed in the center of the room.
Wil: Would I make an insight check, perhaps? No, that doesn't apply.
Matt: Insight's more for individuals and motives.
Marisha: Wisdom saving throws. Continue.
Wil: I just don't want to be over this acid anymore.
Matt: Okay, so you push forward?
Liam: It's going to be all right.
Wil: That's what my friend thought.
Matt: You push forward. You get about here as you're passing through the two sigils, and there's a flash from the sigils. They glow bright, and it's almost like two flashbulbs go off from side to side. You stop. The carpet dips. As in, the carpet goes limp.
Orion: I cast Fly on all of us.
Matt: Okay. As the carpet goes limp, you all begin to plummet forward. You need to go ahead and make a concentration check.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Matt: It's with your constitution modifier.
Orion: 16.
Matt: 16? Okay. So you cast Fly multiple times? People begin to lift up, and then the spell fades. There is something about these sigils that is cancelling magic. However, the carpet is now going limp and all of you are now plummeting down towards the acidic surface below. Your action was casting Fly. There is one piece of open ground here that can fit maybe two people.
Wil: Thorbir dives for it.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Can I cast Wall of Stone and make a big stone underneath of us to support the carpet?
Matt: Go ahead and roll a concentration check.
Marisha: Let's use this one. Add my what?
Matt: Constitution saving throw, essentially, is what it is.
Marisha: Constitution saving throw? Why?
Matt: This is to maintain your concentration as you're falling.
Marisha: 13.
Matt: Yeah. Unfortunately, due to the jostling, you're unable to get the spell out in time. Thorbir. Who else is jumping for the platform?
Marisha: I go eagle.
Matt: Okay, you go eagle form. Keyleth catches herself before plummeting inside and goes giant eagle form, gliding past without an issue. Tiberius is falling. I want you guys-- Tiberius, Thorbir, Vax, and Kash-- to all make dexterity saving throws.
Liam: Tell me how I would go about doing this. As I fall with the carpet, I want to try to pull up on the carpet and land in the shit.
Matt: Okay. Make an acrobatics check.
Liam: 27.
Matt: 27. All right. What was your dex?
Wil: 14.
Matt: 14.
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17.
Will: 12.
Matt: 12. So Thorbir and Tiberius make it onto that small platform and barely catch yourself before plummeting into the liquid. However, Brother Kash, you (splash). And it's about waist-deep from where you impact. (sizzling) Immediately, you feel this horrible corrosive burning sensation. You, grabbing the carpet, lift and drift and come down into the section. This section has eroded more, and you are about to go up to your shoulders. Immediately, the two of you suffer 18 points of acid damage.
Liam: I'm wearing acid-resistant armor.
Matt: So you take nine points instead.
Marisha: Can I fly and pick up Brother Kash, as an eagle, and try and fly and drag him to the shore?
Orion: Don't worry about him. Is he a gnome?
Marisha: No, he's a human.
Orion: Get the carpet from him instead.
Matt: You're barely catching yourself. She's over the other way right now. You, however, are submerged in the liquid now.
Liam: Am I under?
Matt: You're having to tread. You are now underneath. Yep. You are completely submerged.
Liam: Is the carpet with me?
Matt: Carpet is with you.
Liam: Under the acid.
Matt: It is currently (sizzling) in the acid.
Liam: Well, that did not work.
Will: (laughs) No.
Marisha: Wait, carpet's in the acid?
Matt: With him, yes. You guys are still on the edge there. You reach over and grab him--
Marisha: Grab the carpet. Grab the carpet with you, Kash!
Will: (grunts) He reaches out and grabs the carpet, even though it's sizzling.
Matt: The carpet takes 16 points of acid damage. As you're taking your turn to pull it out as opposed to trying to escape from that point, you take another 15 points of acid damage, until eventually you're pulled out from the entire pool and carried over to the other side and then dropped on the other side, both of you guys pulling the carpet out. The carpet itself, its color has dampened. Portions of the corners of the carpet have dissolved, and you can see the liquid on it is still eating away at the actual fibers of the carpet. You're still submerged. You take another 18 points of acid damage, reduced to nine again. Same as you took last time. And what are you doing?
Liam: Me? I'm trying to climb up onto the rock that is right there that I didn't jump onto.
Matt: Right here? There's only enough room for two people.
Liam: Who's on it now?
Matt: Currently, Tiberius and Thorbir.
Liam: Well, I guess I'm swimming through acid, then.
Matt: You can try and get on there, but you'd probably push somebody else off.
Liam: No, I'm just going to start wading towards the other side.
Matt: Okay. Athletics roll. It is a very thick, gloopy liquid.
Liam: That's all right because I rolled a 19, so that is a total of 21.
Matt: 21. That'll be enough to get you just towards the edge and you (grunts) pull yourself out onto the side of the stonework, taking a final 13 points of acid damage, halved because of your armor. You take seven. (pants) On the side, both you and Kashaw are catching yourself, wiping it off the parts of the flesh. You can see, there's scarring on your skin from where the liquid began to dissolve some of the flesh on the outer layers. The carpet itself is still (sizzling). The edges of it are starting to burn away and dissolve.
Marisha: Can you Prestidigitation that shit off?
Matt: He's across the way right now, currently on the small platform with Thorbir. What are you guys doing right now?
Wil: I want to look at the walls and see if there's hand-holds or some other way that I can try to go across the wall. You know, God of War style.
Matt: Looking at it, there are parts of the walls that have slowly become pockmarked from the proximity of this caustic vitriol. They're few and far between. You can attempt to do a leap, parkour-style, but that would be a pretty hefty feat of acrobatics to do so.
Wil: Well, as you may know, acrobatics is something we heavy plate mail-wearing dwarves are extraordinarily good at. Is she still an eagle? Eagle! Hey, eagle!
Marisha: (caws)
Matt: Swoop over.
Liam: (screech)
Marisha: (screech)
Matt: You grab Thorbir?
Marisha: Actually, eagles sound like shit. They use a raptor or something like that. Eagles don't actually sound like that. Eagles are actually like, (weak squawk).
Matt: They use an actual raptor sound they record from the wild to dub the eagle.
Will: They carry tiny little microphone things right here.
Matt: Yeah, they have to construct eagle noises in post.
Wil: It's all part of the great eagle conspiracy.
Will: It's all Foley. Everything with an eagle. Frank Welker is the sound of every eagle that's ever been out there. (laughter)
Liam: I saw this great documentary about it on YouTube.
Matt: Giraffes, foxes, eagles.
Will: It's all Frank Welker.
Wil: Every other animal, Dee Bradley Baker.
All: Dee Bradley Baker! (laughter)
Matt: So are you grabbing Tiberius or Thorbir?
Marisha: Tiberius. (caws) Sorry! He's more important. (caws)
Orion: I'll take out my Mending Wheel when I land, and grab the carpet.
Marisha: Fix that shit.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And then I go back for Thorbir.
Matt: Okay. You take Thorbir and lift him back over. Magic carpet has sustained fairly hefty damage and currently, the way you're reading it, its enchantment is fading.
Marisha: Hurry. Quick! Come on, Tiberius.
Orion: What, I'm fixing it! I'm using the Mending Wheel.
Matt: Okay. You take the Mending Wheel, and you set it up.
Marisha: Maybe get the acid off it first.
Orion: I Prestidigitate it off, first. There.
Will: How are you doing?
Liam: I can walk. I can fight. I'm not as pretty.
Will: Let's heal.
Marisha: And remember, if everyone rolled 2d12, you get that added to your maximum hit points, from your meal.
Wil: Thorbir is pushing himself back as far away from the acid as he can possibly get. He doesn't care how ridiculous he looks.
Matt: Okay. As you're keeping yourself at the back, you can see it's all flowing in this direction, slowly. It looks like there's a section of the wall here that's somewhat open, and you can see there's a pathway where it's flowing through this direction, and it's coasting and flowing out underneath the wall on this side. So you're keeping a close eye on that. You've finished assembling the Mending Wheel. You take the flying carpet and set it on there. The wheel begins to rotate, and as it does, the carpet curls up, almost like heat to a hair. Curls up on its own and begins to formulate this small cluster of material. You can see where a lot of its vibrant color is gone and left with dark, charred, and partially eaten-away cloth and cotton. I'm going to ask you to make an arcana check to attempt to use your concentration and knowledge of magic enchantment to maintain it.
Orion: 18.
Matt: 18 vs the damage dealt. Okay, as the Wheel spins and spins, you can see as the color is fading and fading and fading, the spark of enchantment sputters and sputters, and then the threads of the flying carpet begin to reattach and reform, and areas where the damage to the carpet begin to ravel back out into a fully functional formed carpet. The Mending Wheel eventually comes to a stop. The spokes of it collapse inward, and the carpet unfurls. A solid, seemingly untouched piece of material... A mundane carpet.
Wil: Well, that could have gone better.
Will: It was a nice carpet.
Orion: It was a waste of fucking time. Let's press on.
Will: I'd like to Mass Cure Wounds first.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Fuck.
Liam: Vex is going to kill us.
Marisha: Yeah.
Will: Who is that?
Liam: My sister.
Marisha: Oh god. We just heard them scream from the other room. Oh my god.
Liam: On a delay, they just saw it.
Marisha: Yeah, they did. We're sorry!
Liam: The other half of the party saw it die. 20 seconds after it happened, and we heard them scream from out there.
Marisha: Why are you being so poopy today, Tiberius?
Orion: I'm cranky because I haven't slept, that's why.
Liam: Can we just take a moment for the carpet, please? We've had a lot of good times with that carpet.
Orion: Yeah. Too bad, right?
Marisha: We've had a lot of good times.
Will: You've had that carpet for a while?
Liam: We found Clarota on that carpet. Never mind. Let's not talk about that. (sighs)
Marisha: Fuck.
Wil: Thorbir has no attachment to this carpet. I'm looking for exits.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Orion: Nor does Tiberius.
Liam: Well, I do. And my sister's going to kill me, specifically.
Marisha: Vex is going to be so angry.
Orion: This is a death march.
Wil: 15.
Marisha: I give Vax a hug.
Will: Are we curing the wounds, too?
Matt: Yes. What's the total amount of cure? Mass Cure Wounds?
Will: I want to cast on everybody, if I can.
Matt: I would say Mass Cure Wounds, as a tactical standpoint, is a better thing to save for combat because it's a thing you can do one round, and you can heal everybody.
Will: Oh, okay.
Matt: So you'd more want to spend your level-1 spells and cure people as you go.
Will: Yeah, I think I'd like to do that. I'd like to at least cure myself with my level-1 cure, then.
Matt: Okay, go for it. Looking at this area, the wall is solid stone. There is no apparent exit. You take a while and inspect the wall, but it just seems to be solid walls. Either the exit may have been part of the collapsed wall, or there is no exit to this room.
Will: Equal to 1d8 plus my spellcasting ability.
Wil: I can't seem to find a way out of here.
Liam: (groans) Sorry.
Wil: Maybe your skills could be useful. There's time to mourn the dead. And the carpet.
Marisha: It's like a member of our family, man.
Liam: Got an 18 on perception.
Matt: 18 on perception.
Liam: So we're at a dead end on the other side of this shit?
Wil: I certainly hope not.
Matt: Looking around the wall, you can see there's a section where you both look over on the far end in the corner, and there is a small panel of stone that seems to have a slight mismatch in the texture of the rest of the wall. As you both look at the wall, you see it and you take that cue and walk up and shove the plate at the side and it (stone scraping) glides to the side, slightly. And there is a small three foot by three foot entryway that exits this side of the room.
Marisha: We almost lost the carpet that one time, too, and we found it.
Will: She's still talking about the carpet.
Marisha: I'm sorry.
Will: I was literally just swimming in acid.
Liam: Look, Tiberius, it has sentimental value. We'll put it in Greyskull Keep. Just put it in the bag.
Marisha: We can hang it up like a tapestry. That would be nice.
Orion: No, we can make it fly again.
Matt: As you guys are having this conversation, Thorbir has disappeared through a small pathway that he and Vax both found.
Liam: Folks, we're moving! And I follow him.
Matt: You step through a 15-foot corridor that immediately opens into another room that has a small lower foyer area and a slight step up into a large contained room. This room is not as dark as everything else you've gone through, as far as light source. This room has a very faint series of braziers along the walls. They have almost a slight ember torchlight lighting the vicinity. Looking inside, you can immediately see what looks to be another small stream of that same acidic vitriol that is slowly pouring across the floor, and this appears to be the source that you saw before that has been trickling through and is eating into the side of the wall immediately to your left. Along the walls, there are sets of armor of varying size. They're set up as ornamental pieces. In the center of the room, there is a ten-foot-tall stone statue that stands before you. Humanoid, male, with slicked long hair that goes to about mid-back. You see fine robes that look beautifully carved out of this dark gray stone. The face is very chiseled and handsome, but at the top of the forehead, you see these two hooked horns that continue upward. There is not two legs, but one singular cloven hoof at the bottom of its torso as it stands. And you can see, from the eyes, the source of the green acidic liquid that drips down like tears, pools on the ground, and spills out of the room.
Will: Well, that's not good.
Marisha: Kashaw, does this mean anything to you?
Matt: You guys are entering after?
Will: Yes.
Wil: I step away from the acid to my left.
Will: Can I do a religion check on the statue?
Matt: You may, very much so.
Will: 18.
Matt: 18. You recognize, very clearly from your religious studies and your travels, this is Dispater, who is one of the archdevils of the second layer of Hell. Also known as the Iron Duke, and is considered a master of politics and manipulation.
Will: The Iron Duke.
Liam: I'm going stealth now.
Matt: Roll stealth.
Marisha: Master of politicians and deception.
Matt: Politics and deception.
Orion: I cast Greater Invisibility.
Matt: All righty. I will say, it's at this point that as you all assembled, you hear a voice echo through the room. It starts off as this low simmering growl. (growls) "I ask you all this question: Why do you hunt Hotis? Why do you come seeking me dead so fervently that you would continue past such terrible losses and dangers?" Looking around the room, you see no source of the voice that seems to be either omnipresent or loud enough that the echoing of the walls doesn't give away any location.
Orion: Our hand is forced. We are bound by contract. I do not personally wish to be here.
Matt: "What if I could tell you this contract you are bound to, there are ways of getting around such magics?"
Wil: Why should we trust someone who chooses not to reveal itself?
Matt: "Why should you trust someone that with very little reason sent you to your death beneath a prison cell to die a pit of acid?"
Will: We're not dead yet.
Matt: "Yet."
Orion: What is this offer that you speak of?
Matt: "You could try and kill me, and you may very well destroy me, but I'll be back. Or we could choose to make a deal. Perhaps a separate contract. Equally binding, but nowhere near as dangerous as this one. And I would say as part of this deal, perhaps we could do some business down the road. You've already walked into my place of business and disturbed my customers and briefly nearly ended my business venture for the time being. This is a very angering thing for one who spends a very long time building these ventures. And I have plans. I have plots. Looking at the both of you, I can see that perhaps you are not bound by the moralities that such silly folks in Vasselheim seem to cling to. Am I incorrect?"
Marisha: Why don't you come out and speak to us face to face, Hosier? Or Hosien?
Matt: "Hotis."
Marisha: Ah, so your real name is Hotis.
Orion: If that is your real name.
Matt: (chuckles) "It is the name you know. That is all that is required. But I think you know as well as I do. For my safety, I will remain unseen, just as your friend has. Now, will you let me leave? We can have this conversation in the comfort of my own room. In fact, we can throw a small party. I have the means to do so. You've already proven quite skilled at combat, and I would hate to think you would throw away an opportunity for what paltry sum they're offering you for a temporary victory."
Wil: Thorbir steps back and blocks the door.
Matt: Okay.
Will: Does anybody trust this guy?
Wil: No deal.
Orion: I don't think it's a bad idea.
Marisha: He serves the god of politics and deception.
Will: Does he?
Marisha: I'm assuming.
Orion: That same guy?
Marisha: Well, I'm assuming if he's got the statue of--
Will: The Iron Duke himself.
Wil: I'd like to make an insight check and see if I can get a sense of how confident he feels. 20, motherfuckers! I want to know everything about him. I want to know his parents' name. I want to know his social security number. I want to know what his bank account balance is. And I want to know his Ashley Madison password. (laughter)
Liam: I want him dead. I want his house burned to the ground.
Matt: As you're all taking in this still and very creepy omnipresence of this Hotis character, you, in hearing the voice, it is a very trained voice. This is an individual that has spent the entirety of their life manipulating and toying with the emotions, minds, greed, and goals of others to get its desires itself, both self-preservation and progressive expansion of its own territory. You can tell in its voice, there is a hint of fear and a very heavy coating of words that are very well practiced and silver-tongued. But you gather that there is very little intent to follow through on its side of the bargain, and everything is designed as misdirection to send whatever it's made a deal with to its eventual doom.
Wil: It dies in this room. Do you hear me? You die in this room.
Matt: "That is unfortunate." I would like all of you to make a perception check right now.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Wil: 13 total.
Marisha: Not bad. 23.
Liam: 22.
Will: 19.
Marisha: 23.
Orion: Five.
Matt: Okay. Both Keyleth and Vax, looking around the room, there is a little hint of movement, and you look over at the statue itself. There's a little glimmer of something shift. You see what appears to be this amulet or necklace of some kind that was resting around the statue. It vanishes.
Marisha: Oh, son of a bitch. I want to cast Faerie Fire in that direction, right where I see the glimmer.
Matt: Okay. First off, everyone roll initiative.
Marisha: Oh shit.
Wil: Just in case anyone was worried. If you thought perhaps we'd slipped into some sort of odd parallel universe where I was competent or in any way able to do anything. Just to let you know that we are, in fact, in the same reality, I did just roll another one.
Will: Good god.
Liam: I can fly!
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Well done.
Will: You got us so much insight, though.
Wil: Thorbir is just slow because he is processing and dealing with the rage and anger and the memories of betrayal that he has experienced, having heard these sounds come from the mouths of others before.
Matt: And with that, 20 or higher? 15 to 20?
Liam: 19.
Matt: 19. All right. 15 to ten?
Will: 14.
Marisha: 13.
Orion: 12.
Matt: (laughs) Look at that. All right, so 14 was Kash?
Will: Yes, sir.
Matt: 13 was?
Marisha: Me.
Matt: Keyleth. And then Tiberius. All righty. (laughs) All right. Top of the round. You hear some footsteps. There is a brief shimmering, and you see across the room, a form appear in the far corner. You see immediately this humanoid figure appear. Long, reddish robes, humanoid body, but the head itself is this dark gray feline tiger-like entity. This long, pronounced feline snout. Big fangs dripping from it, long whiskers, a sadistic grin on its face. The amulet that was once adorning the statue now around its neck. Where its hands are, you can see the hands are actually backwards and upturned in these nasty-looking claws. It continues and releases its hands in some sort of arcane form.
Orion: Rakshasa.
Marisha: Rakshasa.
Matt: Rakshasa.
Will: A rakshasa! (laughter)
Matt: And with that, Tiberius.
Marisha: So I don't get Faerie Fire off on him first?
Matt: No, that's going to be on your turn there. That's what the initiative roll was for. I need you to go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Orion: Hold on, what is he doing? Is he casting a spell?
Matt: He is, currently, yes.
Orion: 4th-level Counterspell.
Matt: 4th-level Counterspell.
Marisha: You have advantage on wisdom saving throws. Just throwing it out there.
Matt: So you do that.
Orion: No. It shall not do nothing on my watch.
Liam: To quote the bard. Scanlan.
Marisha: I love that you felt like you had to clarify.
Matt: So he goes and finishes a Charm Person spell towards you. You release that with your ring and the spell dissipates from his grasp. (growls) It growls under its breath.
Orion: How can he see me, by the way? I'm invisible, still.
Matt: He can see you.
Orion: Bastard!
Marisha: He's smart.
Matt: Yeah. Even though you're invisible, he looked right at you and cast the spell. You gather that there's something about him that can see through invisibility. With that, he's going to move in that direction. And at the end of that, that brings us to Vax.
Liam: All right. Well, I earlier rolled a 32 on stealth, but I don't know if that means shit right now, but I'm clicking my Boots of Haste and moving along the wall.
Matt: Along the wall here?
Liam: No. I'm going to stay put. I'm going to attack him. I'm going to throw-- dagger, dagger, dagger-- through the air. (flying blades) From the shadows. I have no idea. He might be able to see me like the Predator.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Liam: He already moved, right? So I don't get advantage for Assassinate, but we'll see if I get sneak attack damage. That's a three, so that's shit. That's a nine-- 15.
Matt: 15? Misses.
Marisha: Dagger, dagger, dagger.
Liam: That is 21.
Matt: 21 does hit.
Liam: That was the Dagger of Life-Stealing.
Matt: All right, so first one spins off. Second one, he ducks out of the way. The third one hits him in the side of the shoulder.
Liam: Now you tell me  I was hidden in the shadows and rolled a 32. Does that matter with him?
Matt: Right, you can roll sneak attack damage.
Liam: Yeah! Okay. (counts quietly) 22. Yeah, 22.
Matt: 22 damage? All right. It smacks into him. It hits him. The impact, though, seems to almost be partially absorbed or shrugged off. You're not entirely certain. It feels like it should have hit harder, but nevertheless, he took damage. All righty. Are you going to stay put?
Liam: I'm going to move through the group, directly counter to him, behind the statue.
Matt: All righty. That'll end your turn. Now Kash, you are going. At the same time, one of the nearby larger pieces of armor comes to life and steps forward. You can now see, there is a large humanoid form that is built out of a giant breastplate with the shoulder pauldrons, a helmet, and these giant stone-like fists and feet that come lunging forward. Portions of its body are made of a thick leather or wood structure. As it comes bursting forward. (impact noise)
Marisha: What's that?
Matt: You can hope to make a check on your turn. Brother Kash, what are you doing?
Will: Let's see how tough this guy is. Let me cast a quick Sacred Flame-- well, first I want to move into the room.
Matt: Okay, move there? Further in?
Will: Yeah. I want to get it to where eventually we're going to try to get a semicircle around him. So closer to that area around there to get a crescent going.
Matt: Okay, cool. This is about as far as you can get on this turn.
Will: Okay. Perfect. And then let's try a quick Sacred Flame on him.
Matt: Against which guy?
Will: Against the new entity.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Will: That's you, right?
Matt: Yeah. He gets a saving throw. All right, it does make its saving throw. I just rolled a natural 19. So as you release the Sacred Flame, it seems to almost ricochet off. There's some sort of magical essence about this creature's construction. That ends your turn. This entity here is going to step forward, and you can see it brings its fist up for a second. There's a small gem that's embedded in one of the stone fists, and you can see it's pulsing with stored energy. It puts the fist forward as the rakshasa in the background as Hotis instructs it and points forward towards you guys. It puts the fist forward. The gem glows red and then releases a very familiar-looking bead of red energy.
Orion: Is that a spell? Do I recognize that as a spell being cast?
Matt: It is a spell.
Orion: Counterspell!
Matt: You've already used your reaction this turn.
Orion: Damn it!
Matt: (laughs) You guys look over and see this as the red beam comes and hits the back wall and (explosion) detonates in a large Fireball blast that encapsulates the entire opposite side of the room.
Liam: I'm using Evasion. I'm going to hit the ground and roll.
Matt: Okay. That would be a dexterity saving throw for all of you.
Marisha: Ooh, yeah! Natural 19. 19.
Will: Seven.
Matt: Seven? (laughs) Fail.
Orion: 19.
Matt: 19.
Marisha: 24.
Matt: 24.
Wil: Well, I mean, I know what you're thinking. You're thinking, oh, clearly I haven't touched my die because the last time I rolled my die, it had a one on it. But in fact, I did roll another one.
Matt: I feel like we're this close to starting the apocalypse. With each one that you roll--
Will: One small black hole is getting a little bit bigger in the universe?
Matt: Yeah. Somewhere deep beneath the Vatican, there's some monk who's running around screaming as their artifacts are cracking in half. That's amazing. All right. Well, that is 33 points of damage to Thorbir and to Brother Kash. Half of that to both of you guys.
Marisha: How much was the first one?
Matt: It was 33. So half of that would put you at 16.
Liam: Well, what did we have to hit? I rolled a 16.
Matt: You rolled a 16? It would be a 16.
Liam: So I made it?
Matt: So you made it. You take no damage.
Liam: Nothing. I hit the ground and roll. Stop, drop, and roll, people! Stop, drop, and roll.
Wil: Little busy right now, on fire.
Matt: (laughs) All right, so. That is the creature's turn. It finishes its spell, pulls back. However, the gem goes to a dull, dark state. No more stored magical energy. Kash, what are you doing?
Will: I've got to heal myself, unfortunately, because I'm getting down there. So I'm going to Cure Wounds.
Matt: Okay. At what level? You can cast it at a higher level.
Will: I know. I'm not sure I want to, yet. You know what? I am. I'm going to Mass Cure Wounds right now, just because I'm so low.
Matt: Okay.
Will: So it's level 5.
Matt: Okay, so Mass Cure Wounds.
Wil: Did you do this to them? Did you come to watch them die when they were playing?
Matt: So that is 3d8 plus five.
Will: 3d8 plus five. Where are the d8s?
Matt: Plus, you get a healing bonus, as you are a healing cleric, as well. Look under your special abilities.
Marisha: Yeah, you get plus two to all your healing spells.
Will: So 3d8.
Marisha: Nice!
Will: Nice, okay. That's good. So 17 plus five, you said? So that's 23.
Marisha: Plus two.
Will: Plus two.
Matt: Plus seven to each, since it's plus your spell level, too. So it's plus seven on top of that.
Will: Plus seven? Okay, now you've confused me. Now there's all these numbers. 17 plus two, so that's 19. Plus five.
Matt: Yes.
Will: Okay. So it's 24. Okay. So everybody gets 24, is that right?
Matt: 24 hit points.
Marisha: Back up to full. And remember, you get plus 2d12 to your max hit points because we ate good food. Nothing beats a home-cooked meal.
Matt: Did everyone keep track of that? All righty. So Kash, that's your move and that's your spell. That's your turn. You're done. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Faerie Fire, right on the rakshasa.
Matt: All righty.
Will: Rakshasa!
Matt: You cast Faerie Fire, and you can see the energy coalesce and dissipate.
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Matt: The rakshasa  unaffected entirely by the spell.
Orion: None of our magical works against-- you know what I'm going to say! I'm speaking Draconic again, sorry. (laughter)
Marisha: I look at him, and I go, um? And now I'm going Minxie.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Going Minxie!
Liam: Tiger on tiger?!
Marisha: Tiger on tiger!
Will: There's a website for that.
Wil: I saw the show at the Bellagio. It's amazing.
Matt: You guys watch as Keyleth now angrily morphs into this large, white saber-toothed tiger that roars on the ground where she once was. You can move, still, if you wish.
Marisha: I'm going for rakshasa, so I'm going to head this way.
Matt: You have a speed of 40, I think?
Marisha: Speed is 40.
Matt: So you can get right up next to it. Yep. So you run around the side of the giant statue and right up in the face of Hotis, personally.
Marisha: Yeah, that's fine. Bring it.
Matt: End of Keyleth's turn. Tiberius, you're up. Thorbir, you're on deck.
Orion: Okay. Fine. I'm going to attempt to cast Slow on both of them.
Matt: On both of them?
Orion: 40-foot cube, 120-foot range. Center it where it won't hurt anybody else except for them. Actually, I think I can pick who I affect. And that's what I do. Slow down. I think that will affect the rakshasa.
Matt: What's the DC on it?
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17. The golem-like creature-- which, if you want to make an arcana check right now, see if you can ID it.
Orion: 21.
Matt: 21. You haven't seen one of these before, but you've heard about it in passing, and you feel like there was a story once about it. It's referred to as a shield guardian. It is linked to whoever wears the amulet and manages to share damage, should the wearer take damage.
Will: Oh, that's interesting to know.
Matt: It also slowly repairs itself over time. So yes. You cast Slow. The rakshasa appears unaffected. However, the guardian's movements do seem to shimmer and shake as it's forcing its way through the arcane net you've now cast around it.
Orion: Cool. So now it takes a negative two penalty to its AC and its dexterity saving throws, and it can't use reactions.
Matt: Yep.
Orion: Sweet. And I move as far away from everything as I can.
Matt: Okay. So where are you going? Over here? That's about as far as you can get away from everything.
Orion: That's what I do.
Matt: All righty. That brings us to Thorbir.
Wil: Am I close enough to charge up and hit that guardian?
Matt: You could. You could probably leap over these. You could do that.
Wil: I would like to do that.
Matt: Okay. You leap across, grin and bear it as you dodge over the bits of acid, cringing.
Wil: I'm accustomed to failure.
Matt: And you rush up to the side with your axe and?
Wil: I'm going to use an action surge, so I get an additional action. So that was my move, right? So my additional action will be to make my attack. Does that mean I get to do six attacks?
Will: That's going to be six points! Go for it.
Wil: I know, right? Okay. If I'm going to use a maneuver, do I have to declare it ahead of time?
Matt: I would say yes.
Wil: This is a commander's strike.
Liam: Here we go. This is science.
Wil: 23.
Matt: That hits, yeah!
Wil: All right. This is a commander's strike. "When you take the attack action on your turn, you can forego one of your attacks and use a bonus action to direct one of your companions to strike. When you do so, choose a friendly creature who can see you or hear you and expend a superiority die. That creature can immediately use its reaction to make one weapon attack, adding the superiority die to the attack's damage roll." So I would like to direct the tiger thing to attack the tiger thing.
Marisha: I'm there.
Wil: Can I do that?
Matt: You can, yeah.
Wil: So that's with my first attack situation.
Matt: So first, roll your damage from the strike.
Wil: Six plus six slashing damage. 12 slash.
Matt: 12 slashing. Nice.
Wil: Do I roll the superiority die for her, or does she roll it?
Matt: You give it to her. You can roll it now, and she'll add it to her damage.
Wil: You don't want to touch this, so just roll a d10.
Marisha: Good to know.
Matt: So now he looks to you and gives you the opportunity to attack the rakshasa as a reaction.
Marisha: (roars) So I'm going to do my bite attack. And I get to add this?
Matt: To your damage.
Marisha: To damage? Okay, so that's 15?
Matt: 15 misses. You strike out and the rakshasa right at your face ducks out of the way and has a small cane to its side that it knocks your strike to the side.
Marisha: Sorry.
Wil: That's all right. Second attack.
Marisha: Do I get to keep this, or was that the only time?
Matt: That's the only time.
Wil: Ha! That's a two.
Matt: All right. You hit the side of its armor and deflects off the side with a loud ringing sound.
Wil: Attack number three is a three. I'm guessing 13 is not good enough to hit that thing?
Matt: Unfortunately, no.
Wil: Okay, attack number four is a 27!
Matt: Hits!
Wil: How about that.
Matt: Roll some damage on that one.
Wil: This is going to be-- shoot, sorry. My thing got moved around. Apologies. Sorry! This is ruining the dramatic tension. This is a precision attack, so I use a superiority die and I add it to my damage roll, right?
Matt: That's added to your attack.
Wil: Son of a bitch! All right. Never mind, then I'm just going to roll regular damage. That's one plus six is seven.
Matt: Seven damage.
Wil: Fifth attack.
Matt: You have two more.
Wil: That's another one.
Matt: Roll your last one.
Wil: All right, here's my last attack. Oh, it's an 18! I crit on an 18!
Marisha: You crit on an 18?
Wil: I crit on an 18. Son of a bitch! No, I don't! Fuck me.
Liam: Even your memory betrays you, Wheaton.
Wil: I know. It does. 28?
Matt: 28 I think will hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Wil: Great. Oh, and let me look at these things and see if any of this useless stuff is going to do any good for me at all. Oh, you know what? I'm going to use this as a maneuvering attack. I can expend a superiority die to maneuver one of my comrades into a more advantageous position. One of my comrades can move-- there's no point in doing that. I thought I could move the bad guy, which is what I could do if I had a pushing attack. All right, so. Can I use my riposte? When a creature misses you with a melee attack, use your reaction and expend a die to make a melee attack against it.
Matt: You'd do that if it attacks you.
Wil: Great. Okay, so I'm just going to remember that I have that.
Matt: Just do your damage.
Wil: 13.
Matt: All righty. So out of the six strikes, three make contact. You're starting to carve sections into the leathery connecting areas of the shield guardian. You're doing damage, but it's still pretty hardy and holding itself up. That ends your turn, Thorbir? Up at the top. Hotis, who is unhappy and next to you, is going to disengage here.
Marisha: Do I get a free attack?
Matt: You do, yes.
Marisha: (growls) Nope.
Matt: Nope? Okay. He's actually going to stay back here and is going to look over and glance at... yeah, he's going to glance at you, Vax. You see this time, it pulls itself back and with this grin, it catches your eye and has a slight shine to its connection. It whispers something under its breath. Make a wisdom saving throw.
Liam: But with advantage.
Marisha: Advantage! I'm so glad I made such a hearty meal.
Liam: Ugh, 15.
Matt: 15 total?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All right. For the second time in a row, your mind is not your own.
Liam: (robotic) I will kill you all.
Matt: You feel the will of the rakshasa take your mind as you are dominated by it.
Marisha: Is this something he can save from, though?
Orion: What happened? Is a spell being cast?
Liam: I'm possessed, man.
Orion: Oh, Counterspell. 4th level.
Matt: You currently don't have visual on him.
Liam: Besides, you should have done that shit already! The moment already happened. I'm possessed.
Orion: Shut up. I'm trying to save you.
Liam: You can't retcon that shit.
Wil: Same team!
Matt: There's a big statue between the two of you, unfortunately, the ten-foot statue, so you wouldn't have visual on it when it cast the spell. This is the big statue, right there. So you are currently dominated. It is now your turn. The rakshasa is going to send you up behind Kash.
Liam: Let's cut the guest visitor because really. Really?
Matt: (laughs) It makes sense. He comes in and heals the party and is closest to you and has no idea that you're currently turned against the rest of your allies. Make an attack on him.
Will: I'm attacking him?
Matt: He's attacking you.
Will: You suck.
Liam: And I'm hasted. My boots are hasted. So here I go. Oh, that's good. That is a 23.
Matt: 23 hits.
Liam: Should I do damage on all of these?
Matt: Go ahead and do your sneak attack damage on this one.
Liam: All right, but there's no sneak attack, so not that bad.
Matt: I will say this. Make a perception check.
Will: Okay. I perceive I'm going to get my ass kicked. Oh, good! 23.
Matt: 23. You just catch, out of the corner of your eye, as Vax turns towards you, weapons drawn, and swooshes up to your side. You get the sensation that his mind is not his own, since this has already happened once today. Doing so, you turn to face him, negating the sneak attack. You're aware of it. So you don't get sneak attack damage.
Liam: Great. Good. I mean, let's kill this guy. I love you, rakshasa! Okay, so that first one hit for eight. The second one is a natural 20. (carving noises) You're already cut up. You don't even know.
Matt: So first one was eight damage, so you take eight damage.
Liam: This is not sneak attack, so it's not the worst it could be.
Will: (laughing) It's not the worst it could be. Thanks. I'm not stabbing you the worst I could.
Liam: That was my life-stealing dagger, and on a natural 20, I get the ten hit points that I cut from him. Or whatever I get, I guess.
Will: Do it without the smile. Do it without the little smile! (laughter)
Will: Just do it without the tiny little smile!
Liam: It was seven, which is doubled to 14.
Matt: The dice is doubled, and then you add the modifier.
Liam: Oh, okay. Oh, so that's much less, then. That is an eight. And then I get ten hit points. How does it work? It says I get ten hit points, so I just get ten, or do I get up to what I cut him for?
Matt: You deal damage, and then you heal yourself ten hit points, draining the life of whatever you damaged.
Liam: Well, the good news is, I'm back up to full.
Will: Oh, that is good news.
Matt: So you took another eight damage.
Will: I took another eight? Sweet.
Liam: Here comes that third dagger, man. This one is poisonous. And that hits.
Will: (laughs) Shit.
Marisha: Take Wil's dice.
Will: Again, you can't get the smile off your face! It's etched in there permanently! You suck! Look at that.
Liam: That is an eight, plus the poison has a DC of 15.
Matt: Take another eight damage, and then make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Roll a 15 or higher, please, Will.
Marisha: Nope.
Matt: That's okay. You guys are immune to poison, thanks to the meal that she made.
Marisha: Oh, that's right!
Matt: So as he eviscerates you with the daggers, most of the armor's absorbing a lot of the blows and you're feeling the impact and one of them catches you in the side, and you feel the poison pulse into your system, but your physical body shuts it down, and you feel yourself unaffected.
Liam: Sorry! I'm so sorry!
Will: And I want to look at him and go, why are you smiling the whole time?!
Liam: He's putting it on my face. I can't help it.
Will: The whole time, you're smiling!
Liam: I'm so guilty.
Matt: Your turn to make another wisdom saving throw with advantage to try and resist it.
Liam: With advantage. 19 or a five. So I'll take the 19. 21.
Matt: You've resisted the effect. Domination fades.
Liam: Oh man. I feel so bad about this.
Will: You don't. I don't buy that face at all. I don't buy it at all!
Matt: Kash, it's your turn.
Will: Oh. Wow. My turn, huh?
Liam: Channel it to where it matters.
Will: (laughs) Yeah, but see, I'm the guest. Where it matters is just getting some revenge. So he is still--
Liam: No, I'm good. I'm out.
Matt: As he finishes attacking, he goes, (grunts, pants).
Marisha: Oh, did you save from it? Dope.
Will: I have to heal myself, somehow. I have to, or I'm just not going to be around for a while.
Marisha: Do it. We need our healer.
Orion: Take a potion.
Will: I don't have any potions.
Wil: A healer dying would be like your warrior never being able to hit anything.
Will: That would be crazy!
Marisha: I know. It's crazy, because it scales for players.
Will: I have one more level five. Oh, I can do a level-6 Heal, if I wanted to, but I want to hold onto my level six. I think I'm going to do my last level-5 Mass Cure Wounds.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Marisha: And that does to everybody?
Will: Yeah. Everybody within a certain radius. Hang on. Six creatures. Oh, you're full? That must be nice.
Matt: 30-foot radius sphere. You can hit everybody here, for the most part. You can hit all of your allies there.
Will: And 3d8 plus--
Matt: Plus five, and then plus an additional seven. So it would be plus 12. 3d8 plus 12.
Will: 3d8 plus 12. Okay, that's the same thing as last time, so 17 plus 12.
Matt: 29.
Will: Again, 29. Yeah.
Matt: So everyone heals 29 hit points. That is the end of your 5th-level spells. You are out of 5th-levels.
Will: I am now out of 5th-level spells.
Matt: All right. That ends Kash's turn. The shield guardian is going to turn this way and is going to attempt to pummel on you.
Wil: Let's do this.
Will: Dead or alive, you're coming with me.
Matt: That is a 25 to hit.
Wil: Oh, it turns out that that hits me.
Matt: (laughs) The second one is a 13.
Wil: That does not hit me.
Matt: Okay, so the first one hits you for 12 points of bludgeoning damage as the fist slams into you. Second one comes down, and you manage to knock it away with the edge of your axe, bulldogging up in its face. It also heals itself ten hit points. As it begins to repair its form with each progressive round, the magic energy is sealing up the cracks and divots its armor is taking. This leads to the end of its turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: All right. I'm still pretty close to the rakshasa, right?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: All right, hitting it with my bite attack. Ooh, that's much better. Chopper, sic balls.
Wil: That's not what I heard. I heard, Chopper, sic kid. (laughter)
Marisha: That just made my night, in many ways. Okay, 21.
Matt: That does hit. However, are your natural weapons magical?
Marisha: Yes, they are, because Circle of the Moon, baby.
Matt: That's right. So yes, you do bypass his nonmagical physical immunity.
Marisha: Yes, I do. Circle of the Moon. So that does 1d10 plus six piercing damage. Where's my d10s? That's eight piercing damage from my bite. (growls) And then I do my claws, which happen twice.
Matt: So what's the damage total on that?
Marisha: That was eight damage. Piercing damage. And then yeah, that's good, too.
Matt: And what's your alignment?
Marisha: What's my alignment? I'm good. I'm Keyleth. I'm neutral good.
Matt: Just checking.
Liam: She's becoming the Destroyer!
Matt: And the other two attacks are?
Marisha: 22 for the first one.
Matt: Hits.
Marisha: Hang on, do I get two claw attacks, or just one?
Orion: Did you say "clow?"
Marisha: "Clow." My "clows."
Matt: What does it say for the multi-attack of the tiger form?
Marisha: It says-- oh, wait.
Matt: Saber-toothed tiger is the form.
Marisha: Yeah. I have a pounce. I guess I don't have a multi-attack. So I just have the bite attack? Or do I also get a claw attack, as well, as my two actions?
Matt: You do not have multi-attack with that creature.
Marisha: One is piercing, and one is slashing, right? So I'll do my bite. (growls)
Matt: You bite in and as you do, it (groans) hits you with its elbow, its backward-turned hand trying to grasp out and push you off. As it tears you away, you got a chunk of its meat. And for some reason, you did a lot more damage than you thought you would. You hit some sort of vulnerable point in its body, or there's something about the attack method that it did not like. (gasps, roars) It hisses at you with this guttural tiger growl. Tiger on tiger.
Marisha: I go, (growls) right back to him.
Matt: You going to stay put, or are you going to move away?
Marisha: I'm up in his ass.
Matt: All right, so you're staying right there.
Will: There's another website for that.
Matt: All right. Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: Move me in sight range of both of them. As a good sorcerer would be positioned.
Matt: There.
Orion: I'll cast Silence right in the center of the room.
Matt: Center of the room?
Orion: Yep.
Matt: All right.
Orion: Not hitting Kashaw.
Matt: Okay. There is an orb of Silence here that fills the vicinity. All righty.
Orion: And I sit in Indian-style position.
Liam: It's called crisscross applesauce now.
Orion: Now cast stuff, butthole! I dissipate my Greater Invisibility spell so it can see me.
Matt: All right. Your visibility comes back. All righty. That ends Tiberius's turn. Thorbir, you're up.
Wil: I am attacking the guardian again, and I will be doing another one of my commander's strikes.
Matt: Go for it.
Wil: 21.
Matt: That hits.
Wil: So I will direct you, again, to hit the dude.
Marisha: (growls) Bite. No. Son of a cock.
Wil: I rolled a 12 on my die, so 18. 18 points of damage.
Marisha: Nothing for me.
Matt: What did you roll?
Marisha: Four, so 13 total.
Matt: It adds to the damage roll, not the attack.
Wil: Damn it! I keep looking at it and expecting it to change.
Matt: That's okay. Your first attack hit. You have two more.
Wil: Yeah. My second attack against the guardian. 16?
Matt: 16 does not hit, unfortunately. It beats away the edge of your blade with one of its giant fists.
Wil: And my last attack. 23?
Matt: 23 hits. As it pulls back from knocking away your blade, you use the inertia to spin it around and come down on top with your axe.
Wil: Hey, I have a dumb question, and I'm sorry. This is at your discretion, but I can add a d10 to my attack roll after I've made the attack roll.
Matt: You add it before I tell you if it hit or missed. So you can roll and be like, "I don't know if that will hit or not. Let me add my dice to it."
Wil: I get it. So I'm going to hit again. 11.
Matt: 11. All righty. Knocked away, and then come down with a third hit, cracking in the center of the breastplate. The breastplate actually separates slightly. You can see a little of the arcane energy holding it together underneath. Starting to knock some damage into it. You can see it's taken a little wear and tear. It's still pretty hefty, but you're starting to dig into the shield guardian. Does that end your turn?
Wil: Can I use second wind? It says I can take it as a bonus action, but I don't know how bonus actions work.
Matt: You get one bonus action every turn, if you have an ability that uses one.
Wil: Oh, great. So I get hit points equal to d10 plus my fighter level.
Matt: Go for it.
Wil: 11 plus ten is 21.
Matt: There you go. Very nice. Ends your turn. Back at the top. That is Hotis's turn. Hotis begins looking at itself. It moves. It gets an attack from you, Marisha.
Marisha: That's 20.
Matt: So that does hit.
Marisha: Awesome. I'm going to do my bite attack again. Oh, wait. That's a d20. Eight damage. Piercing damage again.
Matt: All right. You strike. Once again, as it runs by, you get a chunk out of it and it (grunts) growls in anger and pain. You notice at the same time that she takes the bite out of it, the guardian shudders, like it suddenly took an impact on its own. As it charges away, though, it runs out of the field of Silence... It is going to begin casting a spell on itself, and immediately drifts up toward the ceiling. It is now currently flying in the room about ten feet up right now.
Will: He's flying now?
Orion: I can do that, too!
Matt: That's going to end its turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm going to use my bonus action to hide.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 27.
Matt: 27. Okay.
Liam: Two daggers out of the dark. I'll keep that. That is a 30.
Matt: Remember, in order to properly hide, you would have to go somewhere where you would remain out of the sight of the individual.
Liam: Can I squat down behind Kash?
Will: Wait, whoa.
Liam: All right, you tell me. I don't know how bright or dark it is in here.
Matt: Hiding behind another party member is a little hard to do.
Liam: Can I run, Naruto-style, low, now he's behind me, toward the statue and crouch at the base of it? And then shoot up from there?
Matt: Yeah. Thanks to your stealth roll, the guardian does not see you. It can't get a reaction, anyway, because it's slowed from you. So yeah, you're able to scoot around to the side there, and then fling the daggers around the corner. The rakshasa apparently has not noticed you.
Liam: Okay. First roll was a 30.
Matt: That hits, and it does do sneak attack damage.
Orion: Good job, Lara! I mean, Vax.
Marisha: Kill this thing.
Liam: (counts quietly) 38, for the one dagger.
Matt: 38 damage. Okay. First off, when you throw the dagger, and it strikes, it hits the side of the ribcage of the rakshasa who is floating up, and (grunts) it doubles over in severe pain, more than you expected it would be, and it clutches and tries to grab the dagger to pull it out before it vanishes from the wound, leaving the blood pooling out of it. It looks like it was hurt significantly by this attack, more so than you were expecting. However, at the same time, the shield guardian doubles over for a second. The link appears to be sharing the damage between the two of them.
Marisha: Piercing damage, yo.
Will: When you hit either one, or just when you hit the rakshasa?
Matt: Apparently, just when you hit the rakshasa.
Liam: Number two. Probably going to go astray. That was 14.
Matt: 14? Nope. All right. So that is Vax's turn. The rakshasa, you can see, is clutching its side now, and there's blood beginning to pool around its robe and it (pants) is looking around with nervous eyes. That brings us to the end of Vax's turn. Kash, you're up.
Will: Who's over here?
Matt: Over here?
Will: No, near the shield warrior. Who's over there? The shield guardian.
Matt: This is Thorbir and Vax.
Will: Okay. I'm going to move a little bit. Even though he's floating, I can still move closer to the rakshasa, correct?
Matt: You can, yes.
Will: I want to move a little bit closer and then cast Spiritual Weapon.
Matt: Okay. All right, so you create a spiritual weapon of some kind. What weapon would you like to create?
Will: How about a giant mace?
Matt: Okay, so as you clutch your holy symbol to yourself, now there's a sudden pillar of bright, vibrant healing light surrounded by that same halo of pitch-black darkness, almost like this strange border around it. This duality hits the ground, and as it vanishes, you can see on the ground this shimmering, almost static-y mace is left behind, almost flickering in and out of existence. It drifts off on its own and is now hovering in the air next to you.
Will: Sweet. (laughter)
Matt: Do you wish to send it up?
Will: I do. I wish to send it towards the rakshasa. Concentrate all fire on the rakshasa.
Matt: Okay. What's the damage on the magical weapon?
Will: When I cast the spell, I can make a melee spell attack against a creature within five feet of the weapon.
Matt: All right, so roll a d20 and add your spell attack bonus.
Will: Spell attack bonus is-- 20.
Matt: 20 hits. Roll damage. It's 1d8 plus five, which is your spell bonus.
Will: 1d8.
Marisha: All those blue guys. Yeah.
Liam: Give him the Al Capone, Kash.
Will: Five and five, so ten.
Matt: Okay. Ten points of damage. All right, so as it slams into the side, the rakshasa (gasps) takes the brunt of it to its arm, and the shield guardian shudders slightly in the distance.
Will: It says that now I can, as a bonus action on my turn, move the weapon up to 20 feet and repeat the attack against the creature within five feet of it. So can I swing it around and attack him again from the back?
Matt: You can use your bonus action to do that, yes. So it drifts behind and makes a second strike. Roll a d20.
Will: A d20?
Matt: A d20 to try and hit. And add your spell attack bonus.
Will: Ten. Damn it.
Matt: Ten? This time, the rakshasa's a little more wise to your plan. As it swings around, it actually uses its Fly to dip down as it swings, and then comes back up around in its place, gliding and staring at it with a snarl. (snarls) I believe that ends your turn. Now the shield guardian turns this way and now it's taken notice of the rogue that has run up and eviscerated a portion of its master. It's going to pivot in place and bring both fists right down towards you.
Liam: I'm going to uncannily dodge.
Matt: Okay. What does that do, again?
Liam: Once a round, I can halve the damage.
Matt: For one attack, right? Well, that one will be a 25 to hit?
Liam: Oh, yes.
Matt: And that will be a 14 to hit.
Liam: No.
Matt: So the one that hits you-- 15 damage. Bludgeoning damage, which is halved to eight damage.
Orion: What's above us?
Matt: Above you? It's about a 15-foot ceiling. 15 to 20-foot ceiling.
Orion: Okay. Any light coming down?
Matt: Nothing in particular, no. You just have the wall sconces up there. This room has been repurposed from its original construction and hidden away. It looks like it was initially some sort of storage or altar room, based on how it was designed. All right, that ends its turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. Since he's floating, I'm going to go, (growls) and go for the spiritual guardian. Ooh, the first one is a 21.
Matt: That hits.
Marisha: Oh, sorry. 22.
Matt: Is this a pounce?
Marisha: Can it be a pounce? Was I far enough away?
Matt: If you move back and then pounce, you could.
Marisha: Then fuck yeah, it's a pounce.
Matt: You have the movement to do so. So you back up, (growls) leap, and pounce on the shield guardian.
Marisha: So does he succeed his strength saving throw, DC 14?
Matt: Nope! Not with a three.
Marisha: Then he is knocked prone.
Matt: (impact noise) Slow and prone.
Marisha: And then I make a bite attack, which is a 19. Ooh, that's not good, in terms of damage. Seven damage.
Matt: Seven damage. All righty. So as you jump on it, you force it to the ground. You see the thing topple towards you, and you have to step back to avoid it, Thorbir. It crashes into the ground, and now Minxie, the white saber-toothed tiger, is on top of it, and starts biting and clawing at it, dealing a bunch of damage to the front of its armor. Very cool. That ends Keyleth's turn. Tiberius, you're up. Strangely enough, none of this makes any sound. It's a silent battle. It is the creepiest, quietest fight over here right now.
Orion: I'm going to cast Obelisk of Stone. Rakshasa! The butthole. And smash the shit out of both of them! 20 feet high. Maximum height.
Matt: Okay. I'm looking up the spell real fast.
Marisha: Dex save.
Orion: It's a dex save.
Matt: That's a natural 20 for the rakshasa, and that is a six for the shield guardian.
Orion: So he's pinned to the ceiling, and they both take 21 damage.
Will: (laugh)
Marisha: (laugh)
Will: What's that weird James Gandolfini breathing next to me? It's really bizarre.
Matt: I'm clarifying this because the spell says this. They make a dex saving throw, or they're lifted by the pillar. If they make a save, they are not touched by the pillar.
Orion: Right. That means they don't get pinned by it.
Matt: No, they don't take any damage. If they make their save, they dodge out of the way. That's how the spell is designed.
Orion: All right.
Matt: It's primarily intended to be a defensive spell that can occasionally be used offensively, if they fail their save. The shield guardian takes the damage.
Orion: And he's pinned.
Matt: And he's pinned, currently. Yep.
Wil: Nice move.
Will: Nice move.
Will: Get him, Stormchaser.
Matt: All right. The rakshasa dodges out of the way, and there is now a giant pillar in the middle of the room.
Orion: I look at him, and I'm like--
Matt: All right. That ends your turn, Tiberius? Thorbir, you're up.
Wil: Can I hit the guardian?
Matt: Currently, it is pinned against the ceiling, so you cannot hit it.
Wil: Right, so I can't do anything. Can I just delay?
Matt: You can if you want to. You can use your action to hold off until something triggers, which could be moving into range, in case you could then take your action on it.
Wil: I'll do that. I can't get the rakshasa.
Matt: Not from that distance, no. So you'll wait for this thing to try and find its way out. All right, cool. So that brings us to the top: the rakshasa's turn.
Wil: Oh, but I am calling out, and yelling at, and taunting at the guy. And it's just this. (mouthing words)
Orion: Oh, because of the Silence. I'll dissipate the spell so I can hear him. Were you trying to say something, Thorbir?
Wil: (shouting) And I will be naked and riding through the desert-- (laughter)
Matt: The rakshasa finishes scanning the room for a second, and he says, "Well, this has been a lot of fun. I appreciate this little scuffle. However, I have other business to attend to. Looking at the rest of you, at least I know where to hit you all the hardest. I know you have a father you seek. I know you have family in Draconia. I know you have a sister that is not too far from here. And you. I know you have one you hold dear to your heart. I can now see your minds, see their faces, and I will see them soon. However, I must say adieu." And he begins to cast--
Orion: 4th-level Counterspell!
Marisha: Tiberius!
Matt: You already used one 4th-level Counterspell from your ring earlier.
Orion: Yeah, and I have two stored in there.
Matt: How do you have two 4th-level Counterspells in a ring that can carry up to four levels of a spell?
Orion: No. I can carry five up to 4th-level spells. It's my Ring of Spell Storing. It can carry up to five spells that go up to 4th level.
Marisha: No, that's not how it works.
Matt: It can carry up to four levels of spells.
Orion: I don't understand that.
Liam: You can do four level-1 spells. You can do one level-4 spell. You can do two level-2 spells.
Orion: That's not how it worked before.
Marisha: Yeah. That's how my ring works, as well. It's a level-5 Ring of Storing.
Matt: Welcome to Dungeons and Dragons. It's all good. You have Counterspell as a spell you know, though, right?
Orion: Yeah. Still 4th-level Counterspell.
Matt: Okay. Good to know. That makes a difference. Let me double-check one thing real fast, because this will make or break the circumstance, really.
Orion: As a matter of fact, no. 6th-level Counterspell. (growling) You will go nowhere!
Matt: All right.
Orion: That's far as I can go.
Marisha: We go to 11.
Matt: All right. It is a 7th-level spell, so let's go ahead and roll.
Marisha: Come on.
Orion: Do I have advantage or anything?
Marisha: I don't think so.
Matt: Okay. Don't roll yet.
Orion: Okay.
Will: (laughs) That's awesome. Okay. He's in charge!
Matt: Okay, so roll a d20 and your spell-casting ability is five for this.
Liam: Don't piss off Tetsuo, man.
Matt: So you roll a d20. Add a five. I will say you have advantage on this because you were expecting and waiting for this, so go ahead and make your first roll. Roll one at a time.
Marisha: Okay.
Orion: 19.
Matt: 19? All right.
Marisha: Oh, take that 19.
Orion: 19.
Matt: 19? All right. To counter this spell as a level seven, you needed to roll a 17 or higher. You are targeting the spell, not the rakshasa itself. As you can see, its form begins to shimmer, and you see a small gate begin to open around its form. You, as a reaction, reach up and unleash your torrent of countering arcane energy. It hits this opening gate. The gate then fluctuates and shuts. At which point, the rakshasa goes, (quiet growl) and for the first time, really, in this entire battle, looks genuinely scared.
Will: Yeah!
Marisha: Fucking kill it!
Liam: You were saying something about my sister?
Orion: (shouting) No one threatens a goddamn Stormwind!
Will: What he said.
Orion: I think I just broke my hand. (laughter)
Matt: Don't break your hand! It's going to fly-- actually, it's going to fly toward the door.
Will: Towards the door?
Matt: Yeah. That's all the movement it can get, there, but it is heading towards the exit.
Marisha: Oh, he's fucking trying to leave!
Liam: He suddenly turns pink and says, (Snagglepuss impression) exit stage right, even! (laughter)
Matt: He's gliding toward the doorway over everybody. That brings us to Vax's turn.
Will: Come on, Vax! Don't let this bitch leave!
Liam: How far is he from that statue?
Matt: From this statue here? At that height, I'd say it's about 30 feet.
Liam: 30 feet? Okay. He's not paying attention to me. Can I use my bonus action to go stealth?
Matt: You're partially obscured by the statue. I'd say you can do that.
Liam: All right. With advantage. Come on, you fucking motherfucker. That is 28. And I'm throwing daggers at the back of his head. Yes. That is a 27. Do we call that sneak attack?
Matt: He did not see you stealth, actually. He did not roll high enough perception, so you have sneak attack on him.
Marisha: Ugh, I'm out of alcohol. It's the worst time to be out.
Wil: Druid needs booze badly.
Liam: 30.
Matt: 30 damage? How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Liam: I've got the dagger in my hand, right? I see him flying away. I'm crouched down. I flip it over so the blade's in my hand. I don't go fast. I just take my time, pull back, throw it harder than I usually do, through its neck, out the front.
Matt: The dagger hits it in the back of the neck and the spine. It doesn't quite cut through the spinal column. You see it comes out the front of the throat. (choking noise) The spell falters. (thud) It falls to the ground, taking a serious impact fall and is now, (grunts) dragging itself towards the exit of the room as you start walking up to collect your blade. (coughing, gasping) It brings up its hand to start trying to cast a spell. (wet choking sound) It coughs this big pool of blood onto the ground.
Liam: I grab it by the ear and lift its head back. You talk about my sister again.
Matt: (death rattle) With a spray of crimson across the ground and this horrible sucking sound, you pull back the head as the life force of the rakshasa comes spraying across the stone floor. As you release it and leave it to the ground with the last bit of life left in its body leaves its form, you hear this chuckle. "I'll find you."
Liam: And I boot it into the acid.
Will: No, we need the eyes!
Matt: (laughs) The body tumbles into the acid. (sizzling sound) You guys run over really quickly and pull it out.
Will: What were you thinking?! (laughs)
Liam: Don't push my buttons, man.
Wil: Has the animation gone out of the guardian?
Matt: The shield guardian that was currently struggling has gone limp, pinned against the ceiling.
Will: Nice work.
Marisha: Okay. I go over to it, and I bust out my book, and I start harvesting all the parts we need. Who's got the contract? What all do we need?
Will: Who has it? I don't have the contract.
Liam: I never touched it.
Will: We need the eyes. I didn't have the contract.
Wil: You had the contract.
Will: I did not. You were in charge.
Wil: I was not in charge. I was never in charge. I was sent here to be a babysitter.
Will: That's in charge, as far as I'm concerned.
Matt: Does nobody have the contract?
Orion: Is it behind us?
Liam: Oh, come on.
Marisha: We signed it, after, and left it somewhere.
Matt: It might have ended up in the storage.
Liam: Oh, the actual, physical--
Matt: The actual, physical contract.
Marisha: Might have ended up in storage.
Wil: Someone from production made us sign it.
Liam: Here it is, clearly, right here.
Marisha: The fangs and the tongue.
Will: Ah, yes!
Marisha: We found it!
Matt: That would have been a real shame to get all this far.
Marisha: I got it. Cool.
Will: We got it. It's all good. What do we need?
Liam: We're fine here. Everything's fine.
Wil: How are you?
Liam: How are you?
Will: How are you?
Marisha: Okay, I have my book, which I think gives me advantage, I think is how it works?
Matt: Gives you advantage on those, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah. Okay, gives me advantage. So I have to do this individually for each one, correct?
Matt: Correct. Roll two at a time to make it more expedient.
Marisha: Two at a time? Okay, first for the eyes and tongue. Ooh, I'll take that 18 and 20. Natural 20.
Matt: Well, it's with advantage, so the first roll's a 20. That's for the eyes?
Marisha: That's for the eyes.
Matt: Without a problem, pop both eyes out.
Marisha: Tongue. I'll also take that natural 20.
Matt: There is a purpose you serve.
Will: And it's the balance on the sides of the room.
Marisha: I'll take that.
Wil: I am good for something.
Marisha: And for the heart. That's 16 total.
Matt: 16? All right. With some difficulty, you manage to eventually tear the heart out of the chest cavity. It's a very nasty process, and most of you guys-- well, not so much you guys; you've seen a lot of crimson, but watching this little druid girl, seemingly unfazed by the process of tearing into the chest of this rakshasa, is very disconcerting.
Liam: Come on, Mononoke.
Marisha: Here, hold this.
Matt: And it is this dark, dull red, like overcooked meat.
Marisha: Okay. The claws. Oh, I'll take that 19! 30. Oh, sorry. 29.
Matt: You take each one of the hands of the rakshasa, the back-turned, strange, upside-down humanoid hands, and cut them off at the wrists, very cleanly, and both are harvested without issue.
Marisha: And the canine teeth. I'll take that 15 for 25.
Matt: 25 total?
Marisha: Total.
Matt: You take the rest of the head. You can see this terrible grin, this perpetually pulled smile from its final moments. You manage to pull out, very cleanly, both of the canines from the inside of the mouth.
Marisha: Tiberius? Do you have any vials left over? Empty vials?
Orion: Yes, of course.
Marisha: Can I try and harvest some of the blood, as well, to keep for personal use?
Orion: That's exactly what I was going to do.
Will: (gags) For the love of-- (gags)
Orion: I'm taking some of the blood, for sure. Filling some vials.
Marisha: Are you squeamish about blood, Kashaw?
Will: I'm a healer!
Matt: It's a little difficult, since a rather large portion of the rakshasa's blood is currently spattered across the floor, thanks to Vax. You manage to harvest one vial of its blood.
Marisha: One vial?
Matt: One vial.
Orion: I'm going to take my dagger out, and I'm going to shave trimmings from his fur and his whiskers. I'll take those.
Matt: You currently have a vial of rakshasa shave scum.
Will: Thorbir, you want the taint? There's tons of magic in it. (laughter)
Wil: I take the jeweled dagger, and I walk down to the corpse of the rakshasa. I drive the dagger through one of the eye sockets, and I say, you will never harm my daughter.
Matt: The dagger is left there as a proclaiment, and all of you feel the weight behind that whispered statement and decide it might be best to leave that dagger where it sits.
Wil: Let us conclude our business.
Orion: Very good.
Matt: As you've completed the harvesting, you notice the contract, the sigils that currently lock it, flash and seem to vanish from the paper, your contract completed. For the sake of brevity, you all manage to make your way-- arduously and with much difficulty-- not through the Amaranthine Oubliette, because that would be difficult, but retracing your steps back through a tunnel which has been sealed shut by iron pillars.
Orion: We have to break through those first. Fireball, fireball, fireball. Breaky, breaky, breaky.
Matt: That's a terrible idea. Creating explosions in small, enclosed, earthen tunnels is a really good idea.
Will: (laughs) No problem.
Matt: They completed the contract, but then all suffocated due to a sudden cave-in. It was so unfortunate, the second team.
Orion: I had a bottle of air!
Matt: Everyone's just permanently breathing air. It is the worst fate ever for a PC.
Liam: Gather around. Watch what I can do! (laughter)
Matt: It takes you a long time to retrace your steps and find your way through the entrapment, especially since as you remove the iron pillars, the boulder then begins to roll past, so you carve your way through. You make your way precariously back to the Velvet Cabaret, back into the room where the rakshasa once lived. Do you wish to walk into the center of the Velvet Cabaret, covered in various fluids?
Wil: Fuck yes, we do.
Will: Yeah, I think absolutely.
Matt: All right. (boof) The door slams open and you all step into the center of the Velvet Cabaret. As you do, two of the guards turn and see you exit. "Hey! Hey, wait! What are you doing?" And they go for their blades to the side.
Will: Seriously?
Orion: I turn around and go like, you really don't want to do that, friend. Trust me, please.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Orion: Oh, what is that? 14.
Matt: 14? He rolled a three. He looks to the other guy. "As long as you're leaving."
Orion: (garbled) Draconian again. (laughter)
Wil: Thorbir just keeps walking.
Matt: He sheathes the sword, and they give a wide berth. You can hear the music playing, and everyone's laughing. As you enter the room, the music comes to a stop.
Marisha: Right before we leave, I turn and have a piece of pelt from the rakshasa, and I throw it at the guard's feet, and I say, here. That's what's left of your boss.
Matt: He steps back for a second. Some of the other patrons are watching this. Some look scared; some look intrigued by this whole sudden arrival of strange warriors covered in various ichor. Watching as you step out, a swarm of them look at the feet, and one of them goes, "Oh! They killed some sort of tiger!" That's not an accent. (laughter)
Matt: Another who's watching says, "They bought that down at the market." The guards take it and lift it up with the blade and look strangely, and you see, coming out of the far corner, the bashful owner of the establishment that you had previously knocked unconscious, looks out. Not wanting to engage, just watching you as you leave with a look of fear on his face. You step out onto the thoroughfare, close the door behind you, back into the Quad Roads district, making your way towards the Slayer's Take guildhall.
Liam: On the way out, I grab two glasses of ale, and I hand one to this guy and just walk and don't say shit.
Matt: No one argues.
Wil: Thorbir is genuinely touched by this gesture.
Matt: As you sip, you make your way through the main thoroughfare back to the center of the Quad Roads to the Slayer's Take guildhall. You step inside, and there across the way, in mid-conversation with his wife, is Mertin, talking to the Huntmaster, Vanessa. As you enter, they both turn with a look of excited surprise. "I assume that this means the contract went well, right?"
Wil: It's done.
Marisha: I take a canvas bag and I plop it on the table, full of the rakshasa bits.
Matt: (excited chuckles) He shows it to the Huntmaster. She glances down with a smile. "Very good. I am glad that we gave you such a trusted member as your overseer. You did well, Thorbir. Thank you for your effort in keeping these fledglings alive."
Orion: One more insult, madam, and you will find your whole establishment on fire.
Marisha: Tiberius.
Orion: I'm not in the mood.
Matt: "It's not meant as an insult. I'm sorry, perhaps you do not understand that we speak with terms of endearment."
Orion: Oh. Well, in that case, I take it as a compliment.
Matt: "Very well. So, looking at the contract. Is everything hopefully in order?" She takes it from you, looks into the contents of the bag. "Very well. You shall be paid out in full and scattered amongst your party as you see fit."
Marisha: And our counterparts? The rest of our party, have they returned? Have they checked in yet?
Matt: "Not yet. They are still out at the moment. They've been gone for about as long as you have been. You've returned faster than they have. Let us hope that they are safe. But I have faith. They seemed very intent on completing this without issue, so I would not be too worried. I will notify you upon their return, though."
Marisha: Please do.
Matt: "Where are you staying?"
Marisha: Where are we staying?
Will: I thought as members of the Take, you got to stay here?
Matt: "You could, if you like. We have room, and technically, as of this contract, you are all officially members of the Take. You may stay here, if you wish."
Orion: I need a bed. And I motion towards the thing. I'm sleepy.
Marisha: We'll wait here.
Matt: "Very well. We shall hold off the ceremony for when the rest of your team arrives."
Wil: If the rest of this team is half as good as these members, the Take has grown much stronger this day. They're worthy.
Matt: She crosses her arms and her usual jovial, passive attitude grows a little more stern. She gives a nod of genuine respect towards Thorbir. And for the first time she looks about the rest of you with a slightly intense look of really understanding the essence of strength between and behind each of you. "I believe you're correct. I think there will be great things ahead for us. Welcome to the Slayer's Take." She reaches down, brings up a small wooden chest. Sets it on the edge and opens it. On the inside, you can see it is rather abundant in gold and platinum, of which the total comes to-- (counts quietly) 5,100 gold pieces for this contract. That is 1,020 gold each.
Marisha: 1,020 gold?
Matt: Correct.
Will: You can split up my take amongst them. I take it my obligation has been fulfilled?
Matt: "It has."
Will: You know I have no desire to stay.
Matt: "If you insist. But you know that whenever you come back to our little humble abode, you always have a place to stay and work at your disposal, Brother Kash."
Will: Thank you. He turns and looks at the rest of his party. Well. It's certainly been interesting.
Orion: It has been a pleasure and an honor, Kashaw. You as well, Thorbir. You are brave warriors and would do well in the Draconian Knights.
Will: Thank you, Stormwind.
Orion: He said my name right!
Will: And you. You might be the most annoying person I've ever met in my life. With that, he grabs her around the waist, pulls her in, and plants one right on her. (laughter)
Will: Turns, winks, and walks out of the room.
Wil: Thorbir sighs heavily and is annoyed.
Matt: "Very well. Welcome to the Slayer's Take." And with that, we'll close this evening's session. (laughter)
Liam: What a button on the night! (laughter)
Matt: Well done, guys. There were a few seriously clutch moments in those encounters there. You were one roll away from losing the contract. Congrats on that. Guys, well done. Please, round of applause for our fantastic guests these past couple of weeks. (cheering)
Matt: Happy to have you in the player's seat. You've been an absolute pleasure, man.
Wil: Thanks very much. Like I said last week, it's weird. This is out of my comfort zone, to be in this place. But yeah, this was really fun.
Matt: Awesome. Thank you for coming to be a part.
Wil: Yeah. And I'm glad that you all got to see that the legends are true.
Orion: It's mind-boggling.
Marisha: It's so insane.
Matt: Absolutely surreal.
Wil: People always accuse me of taking it easy on my players. I really don't. (laughter)
Liam: Dice aside, great character.
Marisha: Keyleth got her first kiss!
Taliesin: That was so awesome.
Matt: And Will Friedle, guys, who had never played.
Will: Oh, yeah. I've never played. This was a ton of fun.
Taliesin: You were amazing.
Marisha: So good.
Matt: You totally gave Keyleth her first kiss. (laughter)
Will: And then vanish like a thief in the night!
Marisha: Moments that Keyleth has dreamed of.
Matt: Damn, guys. All right, so we have our donation list for the evening.
Zac: Lots of donations tonight.
Orion: And our warlock. (cheering)
Marisha: We fucking lived!
Mary: How was the kiss?
Marisha: Oh my god. I got pink in the face. In real life.
Taliesin: You two totally made out on graph paper.
Mary: You did!
Will: I want to see that artwork.
Taliesin: Oh, it's coming. I heard the sound of 300 pencils going.
Marisha: I have a cowboy who just rode into the sunset, you guys.
Taliesin: Ship. He just shipped all over.
Matt: Darin, get in here!
Liam: Kash money! (laughter)
Will: I know what you've got to do to get invited back.
Matt: Also, guys, this is a friend of the show. Darin, another amazing voice actor who's a fan of the show. (cheering)
Matt: For all you Warcraft players, you've probably killed him as Blackhand in Warlords of Draenor.
Darin: How dare you?! (laughter)
Matt: And so many other great characters. I'm so glad he could come and watch tonight. [end of captions]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello and good evening, everyone, and welcome to Critical Role, where a bunch of us crazy, zany, nerdy-ass voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons. For those of us meeting us for the first time, welcome; this is us playing DND from a homebrew campaign with a few homebrew rules, but overall, it's a fun time. Couple of announcements I want to get over before we start up the game: One, we have a subscriber challenge, apparently, every 100 subscribers we get, we are giving away a signed poster of the cast of Critical Role, as well as a signed portrait or a giant poster of a beautiful piece of art by Kit Buss, our official artist. The cast will be signing both of those and giving those away to whoever wins and every 100 subscribers whoever is active in the chatroom will be opting in to be chosen randomly for that prize, so we'll keep an eye out for that and we will be announcing those winners as they come in. So that's every 100 subscribers. Also, there is a challenge that if we can manage to hit 7,000 subscribers by the beginning of the day tomorrow, the streaming tomorrow, one, there will be apparently some sort of Pikachu costume will be purchased and worn around the studio. This is all the information I have, and I'm excited at the vagueness that was presented to me, because that could mean anything, which, you know, with enough pressure, peer pressure especially, anyone can be put into a Pikachu costume.
Zac: Not anyone.
Matt: (laughs) Anyone. Also, there is apparently a promise for a party tomorrow evening with some fun guests and performers if we manage to hit 7k by the beginning of tomorrow's stream. This has been given to me by our gracious Overlord. Also, apparently the mods have their own challenge if we hit 7k by tomorrow that I've been told I don't really need to mention, which means I'm going to mention it, because apparently, there will be a Snugglelord or Overlord body pillow made. I think you should try and make that happen.
Zac: I asked really politely for that not to be mentioned. Cool, no, I'm going to remember that.
Matt: How could you not mention that?! How could you not mention that? So 7k, guys. See if we can, see if we could make that happen, because I think it means if one can be made, many can be made and I think all of us here at Critical Role would be happy to have copies for ourselves. So that's now up in the air. Let's see. A couple other quick announcements: we also have our charity, 826LA, they're a fantastic charity, 826 across the nation, but especially we're donating to 826LA. They have afterschool programs and a lot of tutoring for creative writing skills and general literacy skills-- I can't talk today-- for kids from five up to late teens. They're a great charity; check them out. We really appreciate you guys' support in that. Also, we will have a one week break in Critical Role next week as both me and Marisha will be out of town doing that thing in the desert, so we'll be gone for a week, but we will return the week after, so that will be the second week of September to pick up our regular Critical Role schedule from there. I think that's it, and that's all. Let's see if anybody else have any major announcements.
Travis: Love you.
Matt: Oh, Grog's being sweet over there. We'll have some fun things to show when we come back, but in the meantime, let's go ahead and get ourselves ready to jump on in to our next session of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: All right, guys. Welcome back. Picking up where we left off to give you guys some overview here, the party had put themselves in a situation where they-- Taliesin is currently cleansing the area of Wil Wheaton's dice rolls from the previous two weeks.
Laura: Feel better?
Taliesin: We'll see if I feel better.
Marisha: No, it does. The energy feels better.
Taliesin: No, feeling better.
Liam: If there's one place to use the flamethrower, I think it's on that.
Taliesin: It's right there. Salt the earth.
Laura: No, like you're not so much right there.
Liam: I was being facetious; I didn't see it. I'm so comforted that it's on your wrist right now.
Matt: That's okay, we'll look for it later. I think we may be down one Scanlan tonight; unfortunately, Sam couldn't make it. So we will be missing our gnome bard for the evening. I know, he's got family stuff planned tonight. Ohana means family in a language that doesn't exist in this world. That's okay. The party had unknowingly broken the law of Vasselheim and as such, found themselves in a conundrum where they had to choose either to go to the seat of judgment and be judged for breaking the law, or they could join the Slayer's Take, which is a guild of monster hunters in the town, which they caused this infraction towards. They agreed to instead join the guild. However, in doing so, they had to undergo a trial. The trial involved the party being split into two different groups and set on a journey to hunt a specific creature for each group, along with a couple of newcomers. So we had our couple guest episodes for each group, separate to do their own little venturing. Everybody survived, which was good. (cheering)
Taliesin: Not everybody.
Matt: Oh.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: We'll get to that. We will be coming back to the game in just a moment. Real fast, Travis, you should show us the really cool little thing that you--
Travis: For my birthday, I got this. This is really great and heavy.
Orion: If it was sharp, it would be a functional weapon.
Laura: It is a functional weapon without sharpening.
Matt: So between that and Orion's wrist-mounted fireball launcher, we are covering all the bases.
Marisha: We have Liam's daggers. Laura's gotten a bow.
Laura: I have; I can't wait to shoot.
Travis: Matt got a cloak.
Matt: I did get a cloak. We're slowly being converted by you guys into our respective roles.
Liam: I think the one that I'm the most nervous about receiving in the mail is necrotic. (laughter)
Liam: Somewhere, there's a guy working in a morgue going, "Oh!"
Taliesin: That's coming to my house. It's going to my house, right there.
Matt: All right, so as the party that was sent to hunt down the rakshasa successfully completed their venture, have been waiting very nervously for a few nerve-wracking days, as they knew it was a three-day journey, day four crawls around and the other half of Vox Machina has yet to return. They have been staying within the confines of the Slayer's Take guildhall and you can sense the energy itself is tense in the air. Mertin and the Huntmaster have done their best to keep you calm, brought you what you need, and assure you that this was not a very difficult task they sent them on, but even as the days wane on, you can sense that their overwhelming confidence seems to be slowly faltering as well. It's about midday on the fourth day when you hear a few loud thumps from out in the foyer area. You hear some low voices for a while, some conversations, some laughter, one particularly high, screechy voice you're not familiar with that then slowly disappears. Moments of quiet pass, and there is a knock at your guys' door on the far side of the guildhall.
Marisha: Do you guys want to get it?
Liam: I got it!
Matt: You open the door. Waiting there, you see Mertin standing there and his red, scruffy, scarred-up halfling self with a sly grin, as he looks over his shoulder. "It's good to see you! I am pleasured to give you information that the rest of your allies have returned and you are requested immediately in the foyer area of the Guildhall."
Marisha: I just run past him.
Matt: You push him aside.
Orion: Really, they're alive?
Matt: "From what I can tell, at least most of them. I wasn't counting to be honest, but I--" The rest of you push past, rushing down the main other hallway that opens up into the main foyer area. You can see the hanging iron chandeliers are shifting slightly from the impact of the door slam. As you immediately peer around the side, you can see before you Vex, Grog, Percy, and Scanlan, all there, with little Trinket in the back, looking a little chilled. They look a little worse for wear, but definitively alive, as they have just received their payment for their Slayer's Take trial contract.
Orion: I run up to Vex and I give her a big hug.
Marisha: I run up to Percy.
Taliesin: Ow, ow!
Travis: I hold out my arms for Vax.
Taliesin: (pained) No, it's very nice to see you too, ow.
Travis: Everybody else is getting a fucking hug.
Liam: I'm walking very cautiously. Hey, come here, big guy.
Travis: Yeah! And I just squeeze him in, rub him amongst my breasts.
Liam: You smell like, ugh.
Matt: Scanlan stands there with his arms open. "If only she was here..."
Marisha: I've been drinking a lot of water.
Matt: "That's all right, we made enough money to make the rest of my evening interesting."
Liam: Come here, you. Tousle.
Laura: He almost died! How did you do?
Liam: I don't think we almost-- (softly) Hi.
Travis: Oh, for fuck's sake.
Orion: As they're hugging, I go to Grog and I-- how big are you? I have missed you too. I had no idea how much I would miss both of you.
Marisha: I'm so glad you guys are alive.
Orion: Where's Percy? Oh there he is!
Taliesin: Ow!
Matt: During this extremely awkward massaging, teat-milking process--
Orion: I was hugging!
Matt: A loud triple hand clap breaks the momentary gushy sharing of positive energy. Looking across the way you can see sitting on the corner of the main central cleric desk is Huntmaster Vanessa with her hands in the air. "Very well, I am glad to see that you have all survived. It is, I cannot say not heart-warming to see you all enjoying the reunion so well, although I had a very big breakfast and would prefer if this were to stop immediately. You have all proven to be very worthy of joining this esteemed guild. I am pleased to have such talent amongst our ranks because of it. Now, if you could please follow me, I shall reveal to you one of our great secrets. One you must keep." And with that intensity you see the general white color of her eyes flashes yellow for a second. "The time has come to brand you as new members. Please to be following me."
Laura: Please to be following you.
Travis: Did she say brand?
Matt: She turns around. Mertin joins her side and the two begin walking towards the back side of the foyer, towards the hallway that was on the left side of the back area. You guys continue to follow them down a long hallway that is just door after door after door on both sides. Just closed, seems like almost a good ten or so doors on each side of this doorway as you progress. You do manage to come across one door that is open and it leads into a darkened training area where you see two Slayer's Take members are currently in the process of training with two training dummies in this dirt sandpit area. As you guys walk past, they stop and look over their shoulders and give you a nod as you continue past. You get to the very end of this darkened hallway, where you see before you a very intimidatingly large solid iron door. No hinges, just a large slab of iron with bolts into it. Flanking it are two very well armed and armored members of the guild. Burly humans with heavily tattooed skin. From what you can see, each one of them, their shoulder exposed, you can see the same marking into it. The Slayer's Take mark comes across as almost like a scarred brand in that type of shape and design.
Laura: That's cool.
Marisha: That's cool.
Laura: We're going to have very skilled people branding us, I'm sure.
Matt: Vanessa looks over her shoulder. (laughs) "I think you'll be hard-pressed to find someone more skilled."
Taliesin: Does that mean they're not skilled?
Matt: At this point, the two gentlemen standing either side of the door stand up and give a small bow to the Huntmaster.
Marisha: Do we get to choose where we get branded?
Matt: At this point, after hearing this loud metallic tensing sound as the two guys have now grabbed these wheels that are bolted into the sides of the door and are winching them down. And you can see as they are pulling, you can hear the sound of chains grinding and growing tense. And the iron door (metal and stone scraping), slowly raises up, revealing a darkened hallway that descends down stairs, about 15 feet wide.
Laura: Perception?
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: What could go wrong?
Laura: Let's use this one. Oh, that was great.
Orion: Has everybody realized, they want to burn things into us?
Liam: We've done worse things to each other.
Laura: Oh, even less. It's a nine, total.
Matt: Nine total. Good to know. That stairway looks pretty sturdy. That darkness looks pretty dark. Even with your darkvision.
Liam: 20.
Taliesin: Can I use my passive perception?
Matt: Well, keeping that in mind. As you look inside, you can see there are torches bolted to the wall that give a very low ember light, and they are spaced out about every 20 feet or so.
Orion: Not enough. Light!
Laura: Oh, there we go.
Matt: Okay. As you cast Light, it brightens up the room for a second, the two guards wince to the side and Vanessa spins around and says, "Fool, put that out this instant!"
Orion: But it's brighter! Oh, okay, sorry. (laughter)
Taliesin: He had a point.
Travis: He's not wrong.
Matt: Her intense demeanor softens for a moment and she goes, "There is a process to this. I appreciate your patience."
Laura: We must be branded in the dark, Tiberius.
Matt: She turns around and continues down the stairs. Do you guys follow below?
Taliesin: I'm last.
Travis: I put Percy in front of me.
Orion: I saunter in.
Matt: Okay. What's the walking order in this?
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: What's the order?
Travis: Yeah, what is the order? Who's anxious? You seem jazzed.
Liam: I'm in front.
Laura: All right, fine, I'm behind him.
Orion: I'll be right after Vex.
Marisha: I'll be after Tiberius.
Travis: I'm the caboose!
Matt: All right.
Travis: I don't think the caboose makes sense now!
Liam: Grog doesn't know that! (laughter)
Matt: There we go. And Percy, you're where?
Taliesin: Well, Grog says I'm right in front of him.
Matt: All right, so you're walking alongside Scanlan. You're staying near Grog to hide behind. All right, so as you guys descend down these stairs. The first thing that catches you is the air itself has a very old smell to it. Almost like the interior of a dust-covered antique store or a long-forgotten and untouched tomb. It has that smell of ancient sediment to it. You continue down the stairs until eventually it opens into a large, darkened chamber. The ground itself has a soft, almost sandy bottom. Turn that shit off, whoever's phone that was!
Taliesin: That wasn't me! It might've been me.
Matt: All good. (laughs) Check your phones. No worries.
Marisha: It might've been me.
Matt: As you step into the chamber, what little bit of light there is begins to brighten as you enter the main area, and you can see before you what looks like a beautiful stone sanctuary in the center of this chamber, built of white limestone with gold-inlaid trim and designs. Strange sandstone, almost obelisks, that frame a large ziggurat-like platform that rises in the center of this chamber just standing there in the stillness. These little torches placed amongst the entire thing brighten as you step forward and frame the visual of this strange, ancient structure.
Laura: Pardon me, Vanessa. I thought you were just a band of hunters?
Matt: (shushing) "Do you trust me?"
Taliesin: Not really, no.
Orion: I'm going to agree with the room. But you are nicer, which is different.
Taliesin: And we're locked in.
Matt: "Well, either you follow or you leave and we leave you to the machinations of the seat of judgment, and you can deal with the law of Vasselheim."
Laura: Let's do it!
Liam: We're here. We're with you.
Travis: Yeah, we're on board.
Marisha: The law of Vasselheim, for not getting branded?
Matt: "All right. Then follow me." And she steps toward the front of this ziggurat-type structure which has a staircase that is very wide at the bottom and slowly pinches as it reaches the top of the structure about 25 feet up. As you begin walking up the stairs, I believe you have the highest passive perception. You notice there are small symbols carved in various ways throughout the entirety of this structure's design. Very faintly along the trim of the bottom of some of the stonework, also largely placed on the top of these obelisks on different sides. It resembles an eye placed within a sickle.
Liam: What are you looking at?
Laura: There's some weird stuff up high.
Liam: Like spider webs?
Laura: No, like eyeballs. Is it like eyeballs?
Matt: It's a single eye that is placed within a sickle-like curvature that has a handle to it. Almost like that.
Laura: Is it moving?
Matt: No, it's just a carving in the stonework that resembles an eye.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Liam: I don't see an eye.
Laura: It's that carving right there. looks like an eye. Does anybody know anything about anything that looks like eyes?
Matt: This would be more of a religion check for anybody who has--
Taliesin: Religion check?
Matt: Religion.
Laura: Can I try?
Matt: You can, you're welcome to make a--
Laura: Natural 20!
Matt: There you go. Start it off. The sage worked!
Taliesin: (splutters)
Matt: Looking at it, you immediately get the thought that this symbol represents Ioun, which is the goddess of knowledge, prophecy, and skill. Not one of the heavily worshipped-- you haven't seen really any bastion of worship of Ioun in the city yet. It's always been those main five. This is the first temple to Ioun you've seen since you've been here, and it's definitely been under here for quite some time. As you guys get to the very top of the structure, you can see before you, the top of the ziggurat-like platform is about 50 feet across on each side. In the center there is a small raised platform about five feet high, four feet high, almost like a table or altar of some kind that is circular in its shape, and partially embedded in this is a large, solid glass globe-like sphere that is probably a good three feet in diameter.
Laura: Does it look like anything we've seen before?
Matt: Not anything you've seen before, per se. It's perfectly clear and it just sits there at rest.
Liam: Is this where the burning happens?
Matt: Vanessa seems to have not paid attention to your phrase and just shouts up into the darkness and goes, "Osysa! Osysa, come! We have fresh blood for you!" At which point, a loud roar breaks through the darkness, shaking the interior of the chamber where dust and sand begins to settle from the ceiling, which had been waiting there for quite some time.
Liam: Was this in the fine print?
Marisha: Guys, I'm thinking this might be a cult?
Travis: That was a really high squeak.
Laura: That was a really high squeak.
Marisha: I'm a little nervous!
Matt: At this point, suddenly there's a shift in movement from the shadows behind the ziggurat, and leaping up onto the platform before you guys, you see movement and fur and rippling muscle. What you see before you looks to be a giant lion-like body. (thud) Steps onto the top of the ziggurat. These giant, griffon-like wings (whoosh) flare out, and as the light cascades up, you can see now atop this lion body is a female-like human face wreathed with a mane of ashy-blonde hair. Jewelry wrapped around the neck and the shoulders. You see as it looks down, the eyes peering across all of you. No pupils, just a glowing straight sky-blue color.
Liam: Are you the one that's going to be doing the branding?
Matt: This little growl with a chuckle to it. (laughs) A feminine smile comes to its lips as it bends down and looks over the rest of you. "I have watched from afar, Hunters. I sensed your arrival and the spark of darkness you carried. I saw your fate bend towards ours and cross. At this intersection, I greet you, and welcome you, proven ones, to our family." And she bows and closes her eyes ever so slightly.
Travis: We return the bow. I return the bow.
Laura: I look at Grog, like what?
Travis: It's a fucking lion with wings!
Orion: I'll do the Draconic sort of--
Travis: You saw Harry Potter, the hippogriff will jack you up! Bow back!
Laura: I nod.
Matt: She acknowledges everyone's existence. And you see now, Huntmaster Vanessa is also in a very, very deep bow, and stands, giving you all this look of, don't do anything stupid. "I have been keeper of this temple for hundreds of years--"
Orion: You don't look a day over 20!
Liam: Smooth.
Matt: There's a brief moment where she gives you this keen look, head to the side like a curious creature. "Interesting. Humor does not find its way to my chambers often enough these days."
Orion: That's unfortunate.
Matt: "I appreciate your candor, dragonborn."
Marisha: She likes jokes!
Matt: "Now, we've built this into a tradition that you have all now come into. And at this moment, you will come to bear the mark and be known as our allies." Her eyes suddenly flare up with an intense blue flame for a second. All of you, simultaneously, at that moment feel this sharp, sudden burning sensation in your right shoulder. You instinctively reach over and grab towards it. (hissing)
Laura: It just happened?! Like that?
Matt: You reach over and pull, and there's no heat on the arm, but there is that burning pain. You go and you look under, pulling your armor to the side best you can and look. And there, over your right shoulder you can see this same brand that you saw adorning the shoulder of Vanessa when she exposed it earlier, as well as the two guards at the gate.
Marisha: Can you hold it up again?
Matt: It is now raised upon your skin, seemingly already healed. Like a long-healed burn or brand mark. And the pain slowly subsides into a dull sensation, but it is not a fresh burn. There is not any peeled skin. It looks like it maybe happened a few months ago, and yet there it is.
Laura: Not going to lie, it looks pretty cool.
Orion: The design is nice.
Taliesin: I'd have liked some warning.
Liam: Join a few more clubs, and we're going to be all sleeved up.
Matt: "Now, I have been here building this place and this guild for some time, with the intent of helping rid the landscape of dangerous prey and helping those who are also aligned with the good of the realm to bring their more powerful enchantments and uses to light."
Laura: Can we insight check and see if she's telling the truth? 24.
Matt: 24! It would've been good if I remembered to bring my dice out. There we are. It's been a rushed-- yeah. She appears to be forthright and honest. There is a force of personality to her that speaks beyond any sort of mortal you've encountered, and even the extraplanar entities you've discussed with, there seems to be a forthrightness in her speech. You don't feel there's any layer of deceit involved. She glances down at the glass sphere that's embedded in the altar, and as she looks down, what was once clear glass slowly begins to glow with the same white-blue light as her eyes. "It is here through this Heartglass that Ioun herself extends my vision to watch the world. From here, I can see where our quarry lies and lays rest. When contracts are brought to our attention, I can see if they can or cannot be hunted. I can see where the worlds flow between. I can watch over my mate, wherever far he may be. This gift came at a price to me, but the good I can do, that we can do, is far more important than my sacrifice."
Liam: How far does your vision fall?
Matt: "The limits fall to where will would be bent against what wishes to be seen. In person, I can peer through many veils, but the further I tread with my sight, the more barriers of those who wish not to be followed can keep me at bay. I've only tried to pierce through the Abyss once. That was a dire mistake. However, you have come to understand one of our great secrets. Keep this with you, carry the brands on your shoulders with pride, for you are now considered Chosen of Ioun, and myself. Welcome to the Slayer's Take."
Orion: I take this with great honor. Thank you.
Matt: She gives a nod to all of you. She now stands back up. The orb goes back to a dull clear glass. Turns around. (heavy footfalls) the tail (whoosh) swishing over your heads for a moment. The wings expand, and with a great leap, the creature disappears into the darkness. If you want to make an arcana check.
Laura: Has the glass totally faded?
Matt: The glass has faded, yes.
Orion: I'll take that. 24.
Matt: 24. You've heard of entities like this. This is a sphinx entity, specifically referred to as a gynosphinx.
Travis: What?!
Marisha: Dinosphinx?
Matt: Gynosphinx.
Taliesin: Gynosphinx.
Marisha: Gynosphinx.
Orion: Highly erotic.
Matt: You hear a snarl from the distant shadows. No.
Orion: I'm still trying to figure out his sexuality.
Travis: You didn't check for the bits?
Orion: I don't know.
Matt: A gynosphinx is a feminine sphinx entity that specializes in being able to peer past lies, to peer past magical veils. You can see how this altar, this sphere is an extension of that power, though even that has its limits.
Travis: Good thing we didn't try to lie.
Matt: At which point Vanessa turns around to the rest of you. "Well, then. I think that went rather well, yes?"
Travis: Yeah, sure.
Laura: A little warning next time, Vanessa. Maybe.
Matt: "I like the element of surprise."
Marisha: So question. The little blue flashy thing that happens with the eyes. Is that going to happen with us now, too?
Laura: Can she see through our eyes now?
Matt: She gives you a curious look. "I do not know."
Laura: She's not going to be happy with what she sees through Scanlan's. (laughter)
Matt: Scanlan's behind you going--
Taliesin: Oh, I think she is. Very happy.
Travis: Scanlan is the Cinemax of this group.
Matt: Scanlan says, "Well, if she's been in here for 200 years unable to leave, she's going to be really happy with what I can offer."
Liam: Peer into the scatological.
Matt: "It's a whole array of experiences that I provide." As he puts on his mustache. Vanessa then turns around and begins to step down the ziggurat. "Well, then. Shall I lead you back to the guild hall proper? You are welcome to do as you wish. You have been released, and I believe we have some funds to give to you, as you are now officially part of the hydra contract you originally broke."
Laura: Yay! I like the way you talk, Vanessa.
Liam: I have some questions, though. What is this relationship, you and us, now? Are we obligated?
Matt: As you guys are walking back out of the chamber towards the stairway, she goes, "There is no requirement for you, you are but a member of the Slayer's Take. If you wish to come by, we have contracts available, and you can look about those if you wish to take up. If you feel you are capable of doing it, let us know. You will then be bound to that contract to complete it, but there is no requirement. There have only been a few occasions that we have called our members to arms outside of contract, and that is usually when there has been some sort of an outside-- for lack of a better term, a force that wishes ill to our business. In which case, we protect our own. But that's only happened twice since the inception of this guild itself, so I would not worry. But we have work for you, should you need it. We have a place to stay, and beyond that you are welcome to travel as you see fit."
Liam: What are your allegiances? To yourselves, to the guild? Or to Vasselheim itself?
Matt: "We have many allegiances. Whatever makes for the best business, to be honest. To tell you this, we like to make money."
Laura: I respect that.
Matt: "We like to make sure that the city is protected from entities, creatures, beings that would threaten the otherwise defenseless members of this fine city."
Laura: Very noble.
Matt: "And we like to make money."
Travis: About that money, you said you owed us some?
Matt: "Yes." And as you guys start descending the stairs now, Mertin is a little bit ahead, and he knocks on the outside of the iron door. You hear it lift again, the rest of you make your way and duck under the iron door as it's lifted up and you make your way back into the guild hall hallway. As she leads you back to the foyer area, she says, "Yes, so. Really, it's money, to be honest. But the money we make, we make generally for noble causes. They do not harm people, and nothing terrible has come of it yet. Yet." And she laughs to herself as she walks on and begins pulling from underneath the main clerk desk again, pulling up a few pouches and tossing them amongst you. There's three of them, she says, "Spread as you see fit. Based on the hydra contract..." She tosses them amongst a random couple of you guys.
Orion: Mage Hand.
Laura: I thought I caught all three. I really tried.
Matt: You caught two and Tiberius drifted one down.
Laura: How much is in that one?
Orion: I don't know.
Matt: You take a moment to count them all. Each pouch breaks down to roughly 630 gold each, if divided amongst the seven party members.
Laura: All right, we'll divide it evenly.
Liam: You're a fast counter.
Matt: 630 each. Can someone note 630 for Scanlan, by the way.
Travis: All right.
Liam: 630 each, 630 for Scanlan, as he is not here to do it. Why, yes, Scanlan. I will take your share. Thank you. I noticed Vanessa has some cookies on her desk. Would somebody hand me one of Vanessa's cookies? Thank you.
Matt: "These cookies were sent to me as a fine gift from a friend of the guild. Sir Darin De Paul of Vasselheim's finest performance troupe."
Liam: They set my nerves at rest.
Laura: So we have a home here. We have rooms here. We don't have to pay for lodging?
Matt: "Correct. You just stay wherever you like. Mind you, there are probably more comfortable lodgings, but you do not have to pay to stay here."
Laura: We're staying here!
Travis: Are we free to go?
Matt: "Of course. I have no business at the moment."
Travis: You guys! We killed a dragon.
Liam: Killed a what?
Marisha: Yeah, they told us. Oh my god, we have so much to tell you guys.
Orion: We killed a rakshasa.
Travis: A what?
Marisha: That's what I said!
Travis: Wait, what's it called?
Orion: It's a rakshasa.
Laura: Does it do dances? I'm confused.
Orion: It had backward hands, so I do that because it's weird.
Marisha: Saying his name is very-- you know.
Laura: Oh. So you killed something that was human-sized, then. Because we killed a dragon! A big white dragon.
Orion: He had a big tiger head.
Travis: He had a tiger head?
Orion: Yes, and he was an infernal demon and was going to threaten all of our lives.
Liam: Yeah, it wasn't a guy with a cat hat. He was a demon.
Orion: A dragon is terrible, as well.
Taliesin: No, that's impressive, too.
Laura: Giant big giants.
Orion: Giants and dragons?
Laura: Yes, we fought them both.
Travis: There's some messed-up shit out here.
Marisha: We went to a really high-end club and Vax and I pretended to be married.
Laura: Oh, you did?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: You did?
Travis: Pretended.
Liam: What? Girls like me! That's not hard to believe! I can sell that, right? Percival, back me up, please.
Taliesin: You, you strike me as married, yes.
Orion: I turned into a half-elf as well. I was very attractive.
Travis: You did what? Really?
Laura: I've always liked your human form, Tiberius. I thought it was very attractive.
Orion: It's very opposite of how I look.
Liam: I noticed-- Percival.
Taliesin: Yes?
Liam: Your coat is all frayed and fucked up. What happened to your coat?
Taliesin: (stutters) Well, I may have--
Laura: Almost died. Percy, be honest.
Taliesin: Almost died.
Liam: The dragon breathed its fire on you?
Taliesin: Well, not fire actually, but ice.
Liam: Again?
Taliesin: Another ice dragon.
Travis: Yeah, Scanlan took a little beating as well, didn't you, Scanlan?
Matt: Which, he looks to you and goes, "And on that note, you're welcome to stay here. I'm going to go ahead and use my earnings to soothe this pained, bruised pelvic region."
Travis: (gasps) Tell them I'll be along shortly for therapy.
Matt: "Of course."
Taliesin: You're more married than him.
Liam: Scanlan. Lift from the legs. (laughter)
Matt: "I shall." And he scurries out the front door of the guild hall.
Travis: Did any of you take a beating, or was it just us?
Marisha: We actually had a cleric with us.
Laura: Oh, you did? We did not. What was he like? He? I'm assuming it was a he.
Orion: Yes, he goes by the name of Kashaw. He was a rather interesting fellow. And a surly dwarf, of course.
Taliesin: I've never met a dwarf that wasn't surly.
Travis: I like dwarves. Did he have an axe?
Liam: He did. He was a noble fellow. Having a bad day.
Travis: Having a bad day?
Liam: Yeah. The cleric was nice. He planted one on Keyleth.
Travis: Planted one what? Like a tree?
Liam: You want to explain it, druid?
Travis: Are you blushing?
Taliesin: She's blushing.
Laura: Keyleth. Lady Keyleth!
Marisha: You just got mad at me for pretend-marrying your brother, so.
Laura: Well, now that I know you're interested in some cleric, I don't care.
Marisha: I'm not interested--
Travis: Do you have a crush on Cashew?
Marisha: No?
Orion: See, how it worked is that he thought that she was really annoying, but really he was attracted to her.
Laura: Well, who wouldn't be, Keyleth? You are gorgeous.
Marisha: He was very nice.
Laura: I'm bummed we had two ladies with us.
Marisha: Oh, really?
Travis: Did you guys get anything I should put in the Bag of Holding? Any cool trinkets and bits?
Laura: Oh yeah. In fact, we should probably take the carpet back now that Grog has the Bag of Holding.
Taliesin: It was a shame we didn't have it. It would have come in so handy for our adventure.
Orion: Vax, you should tell your sister.
Marisha: That should come from you.
Liam: It's a funny story. It's really funny.
Marisha: Yeah, looking back it is. You know what actually, hang on, stop. Do we have any ale on us? We should have a drink real fast.
Travis: Oh, we always have ale! I pull out the cask and I pass around a little.
Marisha: It's going to make it so much funnier.
Laura: All right, go. What is it?
Liam: Well, there was this acid pit, right? And we all got on top of the carpet, like we do.
Laura: Yeah, fly over the acid pit.
Liam: And there were these giant magical sigils that borked the carpet. Which was fine. It was fine, because the thing started to go down--
Laura: Right, and then you pulled up, and you jumped--
Liam: I grabbed the carpet, and I jumped and put my own body, up to my fucking head, into the acid. Burned. Yeah, you see this? You see this little bit of gray? I held the carpet up, and then it's funny. We both sank together, and then the carpet went in the acid. But it was still okay. It wasn't completely destroyed.
Travis: I'm sorry, you said it went in the acid?
Laura: But then you saved it, and it was fine.
Liam: Just a little bit, but only completely. Tiberius--
Taliesin: This story will be great if we could see the carpet, I think.
Orion: I pull it out of my Bag of Holding.
Taliesin: Well, you cleaned it, and that's nice.
Travis: It looks fine.
Laura: It looks a little less... glowy, though.
Orion: It doesn't fly anymore.
Travis: I'm sorry, it doesn't fry anymore?
Liam: It's very comfortable to step upon, but it doesn't fly.
Marisha: It's going to make a gorgeous tapestry.
Orion: We need to re-enchant it, is what's going on.
Laura: (shouting) You lost the carpet?!
Marisha: We-- the carpet we stole, to be fair.
Laura: The carpet--
Orion: It's okay. Again, it's not a big deal. We just have to re-enchant it. I'll find somebody powerful enough to do so.
Laura: It's okay. We'll just pool our funds together. You guys didn't spend any money during your mission, right? We can pool our funds together and maybe find somebody. You didn't spend any money?
Orion: No, we spent--
Liam: We're still alive?
Orion: I have a plan, though, Vex.
Taliesin: We slept in a tent! We slept in a tent in the woods with the loudest librarian on god's green earth!
Laura: You should have kissed her, Percy.
Taliesin: She talked in her sleep!
Travis: You got a kiss! I didn't get a kiss.
Marisha: Hey, I'd never been kissed before, okay?!
Liam: In our defense--
Travis: What the fuck just happened?
Marisha: What just happened?
Taliesin: This is what happens when you de-enchant the carpet.
Matt: At which point, there's a knock at the front of the guild hall.
Marisha: God, timing.
Liam: Is there a tavern anywhere nearby?
Matt: Mertin walks over. "All right. Not a problem." Opens the door. Peeking from around the doorway, you see meekly a familiar female form. Short, white hair, silver and blue armor, small in stature. There stands a meek and smiling Pike. (cheering)
Ashley: Oh, hi! Hello.
Travis: How did you do that? Your ways are mysterious.
Marisha: How have you been? Oh my god. I think we've only been away for a week, but it feels like a year.
Ashley: Oh, you know. Here we are. Oh boy. It's so good to see you guys. I've been working on the temple, and some people are great there, and some aren't. It's been great. I'm just so glad to be back. I got a couple of days off, so I figured I needed to come hang out with the group.
Marisha: How did you find us here? How did you know to find us here, Pike?
Matt: Here's the circumstance with you, Pike. They reached a certain point in getting a lot of the temple, most of it uncovered. It's still not quite at the level you want it to be, and it'll take a few months to get into its full restoration. However, there is definitely a curse placed on the tower that was once built over the temple, which is why most people avoided it for so long and didn't realize there was something beneath it. The more you guys worked, the more and more you saw the curse was essentially undoing and corroding a lot of the work you guys were doing to restore it. The group had to pool their funds to hire a high priest of the Raven Queen to come in for the next week and cleanse the landscape of the curse that has basically prevented you guys from progressing in restoring the temple, so you have about a week to yourself.
Ashley: I'm here for about a week.
Laura: What should we do?
Liam: Let's go to Kraghammer!
Laura: Do we have enough time?
Orion: We have to get the money from Kraghammer, right? Pike, by the way, did you notice any blue shit around?
Ashley: Yes!
Liam: Like holy shit.
Travis: Like holy shit, did you walk around going like, "Oh, holy shit!"
Ashley: We were doing a lot of dusting. You know, you have your little brush? And I came across some blue shit, and I was wondering what it was, so I just kept it there. I didn't clean it.
Laura: You didn't pick up blue shit?
Ashley: I just thought it was so fascinating. I had to leave it there.
Orion: Apparently, blue shit is charmed in these lands.
Laura: It's a very good blessing wherever it lands.
Ashley: Well, I picked it up, and I put it aside in a jar, just in case.
Laura: I'm sure she had gloves on. You had gloves on, right?
Ashley: I had gloves, just in case.
Liam: A blessing from Sarenrae.
Ashley: That's what I thought.
Laura: Well, what should we do?
Marisha: Well, once again, I don't want to leave, because I'm assuming we'll lose access. We don't have access to the airship for forever.
Laura: It's true. We should probably go see your family before we go to Kraghammer.
Orion: Well, wait a minute. Kraghammer is just getting our money and leaving, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Orion: Your family, is that closer?
Marisha: It's around the corner.
Travis: Should we visit the shop and get some potions?
Laura: Oh my gosh, do we need potions.
Orion: Yes, we need to item up.
Laura: Just go and buy some potions.
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Wait, does the Slayer's Take have a nice stock of potions?
Liam: Or an employee discount?
Matt: You inquire with Mertin, and Mertin gives a moment of thought and goes, "To be honest, I'm pretty sure that we gave our current stock to a couple of teams throughout, including the one that went and fought the dragon."
Laura: Oh, yes. Funny thing  we used them because it was a dragon. Do you have any more?
Matt: "At the moment, no. We have a few that are on order. Should be here in the next two, three days. So there's that. But--"
Orion: Is there a bazaar with any shops we can go to?
Matt: "I mean, there is the bazaar north of the guild; you're welcome to check in that area, but most of our enchanted potions are exported. It's one of the many things that the city makes its money on, and to be perfectly honest, most of what you've seen throughout the world probably in some way, shape, or form came from us. We take a lot of pride in that. But you're welcome to ask around. Good to hear this."
Orion: As we're doing the item stuff, I would like to stop at a blacksmith's shop.
Marisha: Did we want to go to a tavern, too? What time is it?
Matt: By the time this team has arrived, I'd say it's close to 2:00 in the afternoon.
Marisha: Okay, shop then tavern?
Laura: Is Zahra still in the Slayer's Take, or has she left?
Matt: No, Zahra has left already.
Laura: You guys really needed to meet her. Tiberius, you would've liked her a lot.
Travis: She had a tail.
Laura: She was red.
Orion: I love tails. Ooh, and that's my favorite color. What magic did she--
Laura: Very powerful magic.
Travis: Moonbeam staff.
Orion: A warlock. Interesting.
Taliesin: Yes. Quite charming.
Travis: She had horns. And teeth.
Laura: And eyes. Let's go buy some potions.
Orion: Let's do.
Ashley: Where did you guys get these cookies?
Liam: Ask Merkin. He can tell you.
Ashley: Merkin?
Laura: This guy.
Ashley: Oh, hi!
Matt: The halfling who's now standing there-- the one who let you in that you didn't pay much attention to because you were more focused on seeing your friends.
Ashley: I'm sorry, I'm so rude. I'm Pike!
Matt: "Pike, it's a pleasure to meet you. The name's Mertin."
Ashley: Mertin?
Matt: "With a T."
Travis: Merkin.
Laura: Merktin.
Ashley: Merktin.
Matt: "I can take these cookies back."
Laura: No, please.
Matt: "But these cookies have been provided by a friend of the guild. If you're a friend of them, you're a friend of the guild."
Laura: Yay.
Liam: Look at these badass tattoos! Yeah, look at that.
Ashley: What is it?
Travis: It's a brand that we got from a giant sphincter.
Orion: No, sphinx. Sphinx.
Travis: Sphinx?
Orion: A sphincter is your butthole. Not who we fight, but when you go--
Travis: Boom-boom.
Laura: What should we do? You go find a blacksmith and we get some potions?
Liam: Welcome to the Critical Role comedy hour, folks. Make sure you hit the two-drink minimum before you leave.
Laura: Do you think maybe that you could maybe start out on a journey with us, and then head back if you need to get back to the temple?
Ashley: Yeah, I have some time. I think we should just hang out like old times just for a little bit.
Orion: Yes!
Liam: Keyleth will fly you back lickety-split, just like that, yeah.
Ashley: Should we take the carpet?
Liam: Oh.
Travis: Right. About that.
Liam: Vex broke the carpet.
Laura: (gasps) I did not!
Ashley: She would never do such a thing. She wouldn't do it. You're lying.
Liam: I tried to save it.
Ashley: Is it now just a rug?
Marisha: It's now just a very pretty rug.
Laura: Oh, Pike. Do you want to keep it at the temple?
Travis: I thought we were going to get it re-enchanted.
Ashley: You'll get it re-enchanted.
Marisha: I'm pretty sure it's a very expensive enchantment.
Ashley: I wonder if I could re-enchant it with the poo.
Laura: Just rub poo all over it?
Ashley: I don't know what it is!
Orion: Actually, Pike, now that you mention it, perhaps you could ask some divine blessing from Sarenrae. Make it a holy carpet instead.
Laura: Ooh!
Travis: You have been working in a temple.
Laura: It's true, you have some sort of thing where you do it with a spell where you can ask her to help us?
Marisha: You have a ten percent chance of succeeding, but it's awesome when it happens?
Laura: You should do it!
Matt: Up to you.
Ashley: Yes, why not?
Marisha: Yes, we take the carpet out.
Laura: Come on, Sarenrae.
Ashley: Okay. I don't have any dice.
Laura: Oh, look! Look at all these.
Matt: So if you're wishing to use your Divine Intervention, you roll two d10s, the percentile dice. Usually, you have one that has two digits and one that has one digit. Roll those together, and you're trying to roll under your level, so you're trying to roll an 11 or lower.
Laura: Combined of the two?
Travis: Roll one at a time.
Matt: Yeah, the first one is--
Liam: Six.
Matt: So that'd be a 60. Yeah. So as you roll out the carpet, you take a moment to hold on to your holy symbol. You sense that Sarenrae's there, but divine magic versus the initial arcane-based enchantment here? It's a little out of her realm and her focus is scattered at the moment.
Ashley: I'm sorry. I'm just a little too excited to do this right now.
Orion: You were coming from work--
Ashley: Yeah, coming from work. Tired, the time change.
Marisha: I'm sure you're doing a lot with Sarenrae.
Ashley: We'll try it again later, maybe.
Travis: Should we go get some potions so we can heal up?
Matt: You can attempt it once a day.
Laura: Oh, good. We can try it every day while you're with us for a week. That's seven times!
Matt: You don't quite know how the Divine Intervention's going to work, but you know that she may come and help you in some way.
Ashley: Okay.
Liam: So what are we doing? We're going to go shopping for potions, and then we're going to go see Kiki's family, yeah?
Laura: Kiki? Is that what you called her when she was your wife?
Travis: What time is it, did we say?
Matt: About 2 00 in the afternoon now.
Travis: No beard check.
Laura: Try it!
Travis: I can't. It's not a new day.
Matt: Well, it took you a few days of travel.
Travis: It's a new day!
Ashley: Is there a little scruff there?
Laura: It's like fishing wire.
Liam: You can't see it, but if you rub your hand on his chin, you can feel it a little bit.
Travis: 96.
Matt: There's no additional growth. One actually goes ping! And it shoots off. (laughter)
Ashley: I caught it!
Travis: (gasps)
Ashley: No, don't blow it away!
Liam: Make a wish.
Laura: No, keep it, Pike! It'll be with you always.
Liam: Wish on the carpet-- oh.
Travis: That's going in her Sarenrae. You watch it, motherfucker.
Matt: All right. As you guys step out into the thoroughfare of the Quadroads, it is beginning to rain a little bit, and you can already hear people moving through the city. You make your way towards the central portion of the Quadroads, where the large bazaar is set up. There are a number of tents and small shacks set up. Some are temporary and move in and out, but everyone seems to have their various tarps up and things to help protect, overhangs, from any prospect of customers from getting rained on too heavily. However, the floor of this city, which is already pretty dusty and dirty in its own right, has now become sludge-like mud, and there's this constant (squelching) as you're walking through the city. It's easy enough for you, Tiberius, to go ahead and find a blacksmith. Generally, there aren't too many in this area. A lot of those tend to be pushed up more towards the Braving Grounds, so it's easy to find the one or two plumes of black smoke--
Taliesin: I could send him to the blacksmith I went to.
Orion: Along the way, I would also like to be looking out for any animal shopkeeps.
Matt: Animal?
Taliesin: A pet store?
Matt: Okay. All right. Make a perception check.
Orion: Sorry.
Liam: Are you shopping for a little buddy?
Orion: I am. That is nine.
Matt: So as you're walking along, nothing's really catching your eye. You do manage to go to the blacksmith that Percy sent you to. What are you seeking in particular?
Orion: A dragonite, raven.
Taliesin: At the blacksmith's?
Orion: The blacksmith's? Oh. I think I can only do short swords and looking at a crossbow.
Liam: You know how to use a blade, Tiberius?
Orion: I do. Oh, quarterstaff. I think that's what I'm proficient in. So I'm going to, crossbow, quarterstaff, some darts.
Matt: Okay. Blacksmithing is more for construction. The blacksmith there says, "Well, I mean, I can certainly make some for you, but there's already plenty of ready-made ones over at the general store across the way." And he points to a smaller building.
Orion: I would like a quarterstaff, though, with bladed ends. It is why I came to you, sir.
Matt: "All right." And the scruffy-chinned human rubs his half-beard and thinks it over. "I can probably fashion something. I can't tell you how wieldy it'll be, but we can certainly try. Give me about-- four hours, probably, with a ready-made quarterstaff?"
Orion: Wonderful.
Matt: "All right. For the custom, put you back about, say, 80 gold for the custom job."
Orion: Wonderful.
Matt: "You wanted a crossbow, you said. You want a heavy crossbow or--"
Orion: Oh. What do you prefer? I'm a sorcerer, so I've got to keep it light.
Matt: "Then you're probably going to go with a regular hand-crossbow. Go talk to that general store over there." And he sends you across the way. You head over to the general store. You purchase, base price for a hand-crossbow is 75 gold pieces, so mark that off.
Liam: I'm walking over just to watch.
Matt: All right. A short sword is easy enough to purchase, that is ten gold pieces.
Orion: Cool.
Liam: You got a taste for the knocking-about, fighting that thing, didn't you?
Orion: I don't like being unarmed anymore. And darts.
Matt: You also have to manage to get your ammunition, as well.
Orion: Yeah, I need bolts. Bolts.
Laura: If you buy a lot, you can put them in your Bag of Holding. That's what I do. Speaking of, how's my supply in there? Is it pretty good, still?
Travis: Your supply of what?
Laura: My arrows in the Bag of Holding.
Travis: Oh. Yeah, they're all over the fucking place.
Orion: How much for 40 bolts?
Matt: 40 bolts, I'd say I put those-- I'd say for 40, two gold. Bolts aren't too expensive. It's bulk bin.
Orion: Okay, then a hundred.
Matt: There are only currently 80 available.
Orion: I'll buy the whole lot.
Liam: I bought them for you.
Laura: While they're shopping, I just want to drill Keyleth a little more about her smooch that she got.
Liam: That's more interesting than the bolts.
Laura: So wait, he kissed you or you kissed him?
Marisha: No, he kissed me.
Laura: He kissed you.
Ashley: You were kissed?
Laura: A cleric kissed her!
Ashley: (gasps)
Laura: Do you know who his deity was? Maybe Pike knows him!
Marisha: Oh, his name was Kashaw. Brother Kashaw. He was a cleric. But he wasn't a cleric to Sarenrae, he was actually a cleric to this demon goddess named Vesh.
Ashley: Oh!
Matt: You've never heard of Vesh.
Ashley: I don't know who that is. (laughter)
Ashley: I thought I did for two seconds, and then I was like, oh wait, no I don't.
Marisha: It was interesting.
Travis: Does Vesh have a lot of followers?
Taliesin: It's an old god; you've probably never heard of it.
Ashley: That's what I was thinking.
Marisha: Yes, no, apparently he's the only one. He's also married to her?
Laura: And he kissed you? Wait. A guy that's married to a god kissed you.
Taliesin: Oh, I see how this could work out poorly.
Ashley: What if she gets mad?
Marisha: I've thought about that a little bit, and then tried not to think about that a lot.
Liam: Tell her to get in line.
Travis: I don't like that face.
Matt: What? I'm just enjoying some water.
Laura: I shouldn't have even said anything.
Marisha: It was awesome, though. Then he just walked off into the sunset.
Laura: Was it good? It was a good kiss?
Marisha: (whispers) I've never been kissed before, so I don't know. It was really good. Made me tingly inside.
Ashley: Oh, that's a great feeling.
Marisha: Yeah. Very nice.
Matt: So while this is happening--
Marisha: He's not listening. We're girl pow-wowing right now.
Ashley: Girl time.
Marisha: Girl time.
Taliesin: We're shopping for potions.
Liam: What else do you need? It's all on me. If you hadn't stopped that shithead from leaving, I wouldn't have put a dagger in the back of his head, and we would've been looking over our shoulders for who knows how long, so everything's on me. Whatever you want, tell me. Not a carpet. I can't afford it.
Matt: There's no real potion shops. The construction of potions is not a ready thing. People don't manufacture them left and right; it's a time-consuming process, and a lot of them are exported, so finding them here is a little difficult, and they're usually part of other stores that sell it as part of their stock. You guys, before you journeyed out last time, cleaned out the hag.
Marisha: Oh, that's something else we have to tell you guys about!
Travis: Can I look around the street and see if there are any shady types lurking about.
Matt: Make an investigation check. Asking and looking around, no one seems particularly helpful.
Taliesin: Excuse me. I'm looking for potions. Can I get some service?
Matt: Some individuals push you aside.
Marisha: I pull Percy aside. No, remember this town? They don't like magic and stuff and they get weird about potions. And all the-- what are they called? The Bastions all control the trade of potions, so people get weird. It's weird and illegal.
Matt: Grog, you come up to a gentleman. He's dressed in a fine velvet bright-red-and-maroon tunic, and he's carrying a small satchel at his side, and he's standing outside of a small tent and he's like, "Anyone? Come forth! I carry oddities of all kinds! If you wish to see what I have for sale, I'll be happy to sell them!" Turns and sees you. "Oh. You, sir! You look like you're in an inquiring mood."
Travis: What'd you call me?
Matt: "Sir. It's a respectful term."
Travis: What were you saying?
Matt: "I should probably go."
Travis: No, wait, you said you have oddities.
Matt: "Yes. Strange things from around the lands. I have them sent in from all over the continents."
Travis: Go on, then. Like what?
Matt: "Like--" And he reaches into his pouch and pulls out this small jar that contains a liquid, and you can see something sort of floating in this liquid. It's a little bit cloudy. "This is the eye of a basilisk I procured from the distant north of Tal'Dorei."
Taliesin: We've already got one.
Travis: I think we have two.
Matt: "Well, then. What are you looking for?"
Travis: Funny thing. I like to work out a lot, and I like to go lift boulders in the forest sometimes, so would you have anything that might give me a temporary increase to my already magnificent strength?
Matt: "Let me see." And he rummages through this small tent on the side. You see it's more of a storage tent-slash-bedroom-slash-whatever it takes to set up shop really quickly. This guy's definitely a traveling solo merchant.
Travis: Like the dude in the beginning of Aladdin?
Matt: A little bit.
Travis: Come close. Oh, too close! A little too close. (laughter)
Matt: That, with a little more of a fake upper-crust, Renaissance-man visualization. He reaches back. You hear him rummaging through some glassware and he goes, "I actually have a few potions at my disposal here." He dips under one of the nearby tents that has an overhang, to get out of the rain.
Laura: Can we hear this at all?
Matt: You guys are having girl talk right now. This is a little ways out of the way.
Liam: Welcome to Agrabah.
Matt: "I happen to have one such potion. In fact, I have on good authority, it will restore some of your own damaged internal, should you find yourself in a dangerous situation."
Travis: I like the scars that my damage situations leave behind. I'm not quite as interested in that. What else have you got?
Matt: "All right."
Taliesin: (stutters)
Matt: You guys are off shopping elsewhere. You guys are probably together, though.
Taliesin: How much was that?
Matt: "This one would run you 500 gold pieces."
Taliesin: Is it a superior healing potion?
Matt: No, this one is a greater.
Taliesin: I'm not spending 500 gold on a greater healing potion.
Travis: Come on, pull a Vex. Get that number down.
Matt: "Very well. For you, sir, I perhaps have this." He pulls out a vial that has a gray, sparkling, almost like it has an iron filing sediment inside this thick, syrupy liquid. It looks like it would taste awful.
Travis: Ironschlager.
Matt: (laughs) Yes. Yes, it is.
Taliesin: Why do they not make that?
Travis: Because they'd put a lot of iron in it.
Taliesin: Some people need iron.
Travis: That's true.
Matt: "This, I've been told, has been crafted from and distilled from the blood of many a tyrant-like stone giant from the far off mountains of the hinterlands. This, when swallowed, should imbue you with the strength of a thousand men."
Travis: A thousand? That's just above, like, four?
Matt: "Sort of."
Travis: How much?
Matt: "For this one? This, I'd say, would run you a simple 6,000 gold pieces."
Ashley: Whoa.
Travis: Not that I'm not a man of incredible wealth. Would you be interested in anything besides coin?
Matt: "Speaking of which do you offer?"
Travis: Well, I have this fancy bag myself. I happen to have parts of an umber hulk. Pieces of dragon, if you might be interested in that. I also have jewels and fancy robes, if you need a change.
Matt: "My robes are quite fancy enough, but thank you."
Travis: Right. I have an orc head. And I reach into the Bag of Holding and pull out the orc head.
Matt: "Put that away. Please. No, it's spraying on the front of my vest." Make a perception roll... No, I'm sorry, not perception, persuasion. Persuasion.
Travis: Oh, that's actually plus one for persuasion. 13.
Matt: 13? All right. He goes, "Pieces of dragon, you say?"
Travis: Yeah, we do. We have 14 dragon teeth.
Laura: Don't tell him all the numbers.
Travis: You're not there. Four cups of blood. It's probably more like a gel right now. Several pounds of scales, and maybe a few claws. I'd have to look; there's so many.
Matt: "How about this? For direct trade, no coin exchange necessary: all 14 of your dragon's teeth, and perhaps two of those blood vials."
Taliesin: (whispering) What would Vex do?
Travis: How about--
Taliesin: (whispering) Thank you.
Travis: All of the dragon's teeth and three of the vials of blood?
Marisha: What?!
Taliesin: Ugh!
Travis: Done.
Taliesin: Ugh!
Matt: He accepts all of the dragon's teeth, three of the four vials of blood-- you can mark those off the Bag of Holding.
Laura: (laughter) You're such a dick!
Taliesin: We're getting you a leash!
Travis: Vex will be so proud of me. (laughter)
Travis: Goodbye.
Matt: All gone, but you currently now have in your possession one Potion of Stone Giant Strength.
Travis: Stone Giant Strength. Thank you.
Liam: You drive a hard bargain.
Travis: Can I find that in here?
Matt: No. When imbibed you essentially, your strength becomes equivalent to 23.
Liam: One time. One big time.
Laura: One use, or is it multiple?
Matt: One hour.
Travis: One hour, so my strength becomes 23.
Laura: Can he get multiple drinks out of it?
Matt: No, it's one use.
Ashley: What happens if I were to just pinky in?
Travis: Give it a little number?
Ashley: Give it a little taste.
Matt: Your gums will get a little tingly for a while. Probably be a little hyper.
Ashley: Would there be any result?
Matt: I don't know, do you want to try?
Ashley: I'm going to wait and try it.
Travis: Does that change my modifier at all? When it goes up that much?
Matt: Oh yeah. Your modifier would become plus six is what it would be, a plus six modifier.
Travis: Cool.
Liam: Money well spent.
Matt: As you take it and you shake it around, you can see on the inside of that sparkling metallic-- there's a small object floating around and looking inside, it looks like it's a clipping of a fingernail or a toenail of whatever giant the potion was brewed from. Like a tequila bottle worm.
Travis: That's the part everybody wants.
Taliesin: So I've just been sitting here watching this, shocked?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Look what I got. Let's go join the others.
Matt: "Thank you for your patronage. Enjoy the rest of your stay here in Vasselheim I hope to do business with you again in the near future." He turns around and closes the thing. He takes his satchel and he starts closing down his tent and putting things away.
Laura: Wait, you fucking-- track him down.
Liam: You've got no idea.
Matt: Closes everything down.
Laura: Do we see him? Are we walking up? Can we walk up as it's happening?
Travis: As she walks up, I grab Vex and I go, you will be so proud. I just haggled down this guy so well.
Laura: What guy?
Matt: As you point back and look, you can see now a cart is being wheeled away.
Laura: I Hunter's Mark him!
Matt: (laughs) Okay!
Travis: Why? Why would you Hunter's Mark him?
Matt: What level?
Laura: What level what?
Matt: What level Hunter's Mark? Basic level?
Travis: We are in the middle of a city where people might not take unwarranted aggression well.
Laura: Level-3 Hunter's Mark.
Matt: He stops in his tracks and feels the rain that's falling in his palm now; it's soaking him a little bit. He has a bit of cloth over his head. He puts his hand out and feels the rain for a strange temperature change, and continues pushing the cart, pushes it through the mud, rolling up the rest of the thoroughfare and disappears into the city. But you have a pretty good idea of where he's going.
Travis: So anyway, I was working with him, and you always try and get more for our money, (haltingly) and I definitely got more for our-- more-- gave more money--
Laura: What did you do? See? I'm glad I Hunter's Marked him. What did you trade? What did you get?
Travis: Oh, I gave him tiny bits of dragon for this amazing flask of Stone Giant Strength.
Laura: What is wrong with all of you?!
Taliesin: I was upset about the carpet, and I wasn't-- he's huge! What was I going to say?
Travis: Yeah, Percy got a vial of Greater Healing.
Taliesin: No, I didn't. It was expensive and-- oh god.
Laura: I need a drink.
Travis: To the tavern?
Taliesin: To the tavern.
Marisha: To the tavern.
Matt: You guys eventually catch up. You acquire your staff over the next few hours or so as people are resting, having drinks and such. It acts as a regular quarterstaff, except you can choose whether you want it to do bludgeoning or slashing damage.
Orion: Okay, cool.
Liam: I fall in step next to Vex and look at her for a second. What's burning your arse?
Laura: Everybody's breaking things, everybody's spending all our money.
Orion: We have 30,000 gold pieces waiting for us.
Laura: We don't have it now.
Ashley: 30,000 gold pieces from where?
Orion: From when we were in Kraghammer.
Ashley: Oh, you didn't collect them yet.
Taliesin: So it's credit, there's credit.
Travis: Yeah, it's just waiting for us. I mean, we're basically the richest people ever.
Liam: We still have a keep.
Laura: We do, we have a keep! We have a beautiful keep, with furniture, and servants.
Matt: As soon as you say servants, the barmaid who's coming over and filling up your drink goes, "We prefer barmaid, but thank you."
Travis: Oh, excuse me! Oh, can we have a goblet of your strongest stank for this one?
Matt: She looks over at her.
Liam: She started before we got here. Just keep it coming. Thank you.
Matt: "All right, all right."
Travis: How much are they?
Matt: "For your strongest? Per glass, I'll put that at about--"
Laura: Don't tell him the price of anything.
Matt: "Very well."
Liam: I lift up the cup and keep putting it in, and say, a round of the strongest on me. I've got that, as well.
Orion: I'll take a water.
Matt: All right. You get water, you all managed to get your drinks. A very, very thick, syrupy mead-type alcohol. Altogether for those drinks, Vax, it comes down to 15 gold for alcohol, which is expensive for a round. This is very fine.
Travis: Should've let me haggle that down. I would have got it to 19 gold.
Marisha: Hey, you're thinking about it the wrong way, Grog. It's the other way. You want to go down, not up.
Laura: I love you, guys.
Marisha: I love you, too.
Orion: I love you, too.
Ashley: I love you, too.
Marisha: I missed you all so much.
Orion: Pike, if we're to just be roundabout and mill about today, is that what you wish, Pike? After our tavern? What would you care to do?
Marisha: Stay-cation.
Ashley: Well, wait. Where's Scanlan?
Marisha: He went to the park.
Liam: You know, he needed a little-- it was really rough going, from what I hear anyway, and he needed a little therapy?
Ashley: Oh, he needed a massage?
Travis: I thought he was going to the house where they--
Orion: Lady favors.
Ashley: I get it.
Orion: Well, we could do whatever you wish. If you care to wish the keep, let's go back to the keep. We could easily get there and take an airship back, if we choose to.
Liam: We were also talking about visiting Keyleth's family. Can you get away long enough to--
Laura: Maybe start the trip with us?
Ashley: I think I can. And then, if I have to leave, at least I can maybe meet your family for a little bit.
Travis: Yeah, Never-Been-Kissed. How's that sound?
Laura: Are they your family, technically?
Marisha: They're our sister tribe. Because we all separated.
Liam: Tell us again. Sorry, explain it again.
Marisha: Essentially, about 900 years ago or so, roughly a thousand years ago, we were a nomadic people. And then there was some sort of great sundering-- we're actually still not 100% sure; a lot of information was lost. And the elemental planes started bleeding with this plane, and oh, Vex is falling asleep.
Liam: Whoa. Hey, Stubby. Wake up.
Marisha: Anyway. Long story short, we separated into four separate tribes to protect the places where the elemental planes bleed into this realm. Once every generation, someone is nominated to go out and make contact with the sister tribes in order to establish further communication, check in, learn about each other's cultures.
Orion: Interesting.
Marisha: We're from the same people, but we each have our individual cultures because we've been separated for so long, at this point.
Laura: So these ones are Fire.
Marisha: These ones are Fire, yes, so they're located in a volcanic region, and you can start to feel an energy from where the planes start to shift, and it gets a little unbalanced. That's where we each live, and I'm from the ones where we protect the Air portals.
Orion: Lady Keyleth, did you just say where the planes shift?
Marisha: Yes, because where all the planes-- almost like a Venn diagram, if you want to think about it.
Orion: Who is this, who is Van Diagram.
Marisha: (stuttering) Well, he was a great philosopher, of one of our peoples. But he described it as being these overlapping circles. What's that?
Ashley: He was one of the Ashari?
Marisha: He was.
Orion: Van Diagram was one of the Ashari.
Marisha: Very great man.
Orion: Quick question about the planes. Will we travel there, is there any way to, perhaps, get to the fey woods through these planes.
Marisha: We don't necessarily overlap with the fey. We protect where it overlaps. You could get to the fire elemental plane easier from this place, and my town you can get to the plane of Air--
Laura: (belches)
Marisha: That's a good one, Grog!
Travis: Nope. Not me.
Orion: That was Vex.
Ashley: That was a good one.
Liam: It's nappies time. Nappy time.
Marisha: Are you feeling okay, Vex?
Liam: Just give her an hour. She'll be fine.
Ashley: She just needs some time.
Liam: Side note  I'm two inches taller, and I've always called you Stubby.
Laura: Oh.
Liam: Come here, Stubby.
Marisha: But anyway, the last person to go on the Aramente was my mother, and she never returned, so we haven't really had contact with the Fire Ashari for a while.
Travis: So you're pretty anxious to go, then, yeah?
Marisha: I have no idea what they're going to be like.
Travis: But you know about where they are, right?
Marisha: I've gotten rough directions. We'll have to probably figure it out along the way.
Travis: Are we hoofing it? Are we flying?
Orion: We could do whatever you wish, Grog. Do you have a particular ability called Magic Weapon?
Ashley: Well, I have Spiritual Weapon. So I guess, yes?
Orion: They're different things.
Ashley: Well. What do you want? What are you looking for?
Orion: I wanted you to bless my quarterstaff. Make it magical. I need my staff enchanted. I would like you to enchant my staff, Pike.
Ashley: Whoa!
Travis: Whoa!
Ashley: I know what that means.
Matt: You've been around Scanlan long enough.
Travis: The holy symbol goes (shattering sound).
Orion: I mean in a strictly platonic, arcane sense.
Matt: What little knowledge you have of enchanting items, from your experience, and you had this a little bit as well from your own enchanting: the process of enchanting a weapon into what would be considered a magical weapon is a weeks-long process. It's doable, definitely, but it's one of those things where you would have to have somebody sit down with it over a period of time, and daily instill it with that magical energy until it finds its permanence within the object.
Orion: Is there anybody in town I could leave that with and pay to do that?
Matt: Probably?
Orion: A mage?
Matt: Mage, maybe not so much. There are other clerics.
Taliesin: It'd be expensive, though. It's somebody's time for a week.
Marisha: It also seems like this is one of those towns where things are expensive. Things are expensive here.
Travis: Not if you know how to handle them.
Orion: Right. I'll hold off on that.
Matt: But yes, it is totally doable.
Orion: Is it a thing that I can like start to do, hourly for a long, long time?
Matt: If you wanted to yourself, yeah.
Orion: Okay, I'm going to start that process right now.
Liam: Here's what I think. Lady Keyleth has been talking about this for a long time. It's calling to her, and we're a family now, and it's her moment. We're here. They're right nearby. There's no use putting it off. Let's go to her family.
Marisha: I am so nervous, you guys. I'm so scared.
Laura: Let's go. Should we go in the morning, or should we go now? Let's go now.
Marisha: We'll go in the morning.
Orion: No, let's sleep it off.
Ashley: We'll take just a small nap.
Laura: All right. Small nap, and then first thing in the morning.
Travis: I walk up behind Vex and I tap on her opposite shoulder and pull my hand away.
Laura: Who's there? Hi, Pike! I'm so glad you're here.
Liam: Could she have one more? You need one more, Stubby, then you'll go to bed, all right? Then you'll go to bed.
Matt: At which point the bartender at the tavern goes, "Are you sure about that?"
Travis: Yeah, one more!
Ashley: One more!
Marisha: One more!
Matt: "All right. But you're cleaning my floor." And he goes and fills everyone's drink.
Laura: I tip him five gold and I give him a wink.
Matt: He happily takes it, and the wink is a strong wink. He smiles back, but also gives you the look of like, time for bed. You all eventually finish your drinks and find your way back to your respective rooms for the evening and have a good night's rest. And on that note, we're going to go ahead and take a five-minute restroom break on our end. We'll be back here about five minutes or so, so don't go too far, and we'll kick back in the following morning for what appears to be a journey towards the Pyrah tribe of the Ashari.
Marisha: I'm so scared! I'm so nervous!
Taliesin: You're going to do great! [break]
Matt: Hey guys, welcome back! We've had our break, so as the party comes to consciousness the following morning, a very heavy hangover coming from Vex for the evening of lamenting the loss of a number of financial things.
Marisha: I whip her up a little herbal tonic. Here. Drink this.
Liam: I'm taking Trinket for a walk. For dookies.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make your beard roll.
Travis: Come on, you son of a bitch. Yes! Two, two! 22!
Matt: 22. As you come to consciousness, Grog wakes up and shakes his head for a minute, and you look, and there is a good solid two-inch beard. Where was once the somewhat clear, stringy, fishing-line-type scruff, you're starting to see a little color come into it. This thick black root is now starting to appear at the base of the beard.
Travis: (singing) I feel so happy. So happy!
Matt: It is like horsehair bristles, it's very thick, and you could probably clean dishes against it.
Travis: Is it like an Abe Lincoln beard, or do I also have a mustache?
Matt: Actually, for you it's only coming in as a chinstrap beard, at the moment.
Liam: Oh, wow.
Travis: Don't judge.
Orion: I see Vex's condition and I run out to get her a coffee from the bazaar, and then do my perception check on the thing.
Matt: As you're glancing about and getting coffee for her, you manage to see a cart that's just setting up this early in the morning in the bazaar. You hear some squeaking and growling and a couple of bird chirps. You look over to the side and there is one small setup that has a number of creatures and small animals and stuff set up in cages.
Orion: Oh! As I'm running by because the coffee's hot. Hot. Oh, excuse me, would you happen to have any particular dragonites for sale? Male, preferably, but I will take female if you have one. (quietly) I'm just making it hotter when I blow on it.
Taliesin: That's funny. It took a second.
Travis: What are dragonites?
Laura: Little baby dragons?
Liam: Like a pseudodragon.
Laura: You going to have a little pet, too?
Matt: Okay. She glances at the coffee in your hand, "Well, I mean, we've got two that are a bit sickly, but they're for purchase if you like."
Orion: I would love one. Give me whichever's the least sickly of the two.
Matt: "They're both green; it's hard to tell."
Orion: Oh, I'll take the darker green one.
Matt: "Okay. That one's probably more sick, but I'll take it." (laughter)
Matt: Takes the cage down, and you can see there is this lethargic-looking tiny dragonite that's curled up on this small perch, and as she lifts it off, it goes (lizard noises) and scoffs at the cage. "That'll be 200 gold pieces."
Orion: Oh, very good.
Marisha: No, don't pay full price for a sick dragon!
Matt: "There you are, sir. Have a good day."
Orion: Thank you very much. Any particular tips, food-wise?
Matt: "Don't let it die. Feed it. Give it water. Good day, sir."
Orion: Okay, so I run back and I go, oh, here you are.
Laura: Oh, thank you.
Ashley: Oh, who's that?
Marisha: What is that?
Orion: I think I'm going to name him Lockheed.
Laura: Trinket looks very interested in Lockheed.
Marisha: He looks a little-- oh...
Matt: Trinket's nose goes up to the cage (sniffs).
Ashley: Is he sick?
Taliesin: I don't think it's supposed to make that noise.
Orion: Do you want to do some healing?
Ashley: Yeah, I'll do just a small healing.
Matt: Medicine check? Okay, go for it.
Liam: Your bear shat like a fountain. Wasn't solid. I don't know what you're feeding him. It was a little runny, sorry. Roughage. He needs roughage.
Laura: Trinket, get some vegetables in your diet.
Matt: (groans, growls)
Laura: He likes meat, what can I say?
Ashley: What was I rolling for?
Travis: I missed Pike.
Ashley: Checking about the health. I rolled a seven.
Matt: He doesn't look the healthiest.
Ashley: He looks really sick!
Marisha: Can I check him out? Is he considered an animal?
Matt: No.
Marisha: Can I check him out?
Liam: Oh, but he's a little cutie, isn't he?
Travis: I like him. Can I put my finger in the cage?
Orion: Lockheed.
Marisha: Lockheed.
Laura: Lockheed.
Travis: I put my finger in the cage and go, hello, Lockheed!
Matt: As soon as your finger gets to the edge, (snaps) he bites on the finger.
Travis: He's a real peach.
Matt: You take a point of damage.
Travis: Son of a bitch!
Ashley: Maybe you should name him Lockheed Peach.
Marisha: Aw, Lockheed Peach.
Orion: I think Lockheed is good enough.
Marisha: Can I do a check on him and see if I make him feel better?
Matt: Make a medicine check.
Marisha: Medicine check? Oh that's not bad. 19 total.
Matt: You gather this may be some sort of a general illness that lingers for a couple of weeks. Properly fed and taken care of, would probably be able to get it through its system.
Marisha: I reach in my pouch and pull out a few Goodberries.
Matt: Okay. You feed him through the cage. Reluctant to eat the first piece. Eventually, it takes a bite and then begins to eat the rest through the cage as you continue through breakfast.
Laura: Can you speak with animals, Keyleth?
Marisha: I can, but he's not an animal. He's a dragon-guy.
Ashley: Is he starting to look any better? Could I try healing him a little bit?
Matt: You can try healing. It's more of a disease-based illness.
Marisha: Just feed him, lots of water--
Travis: I have some dry food rations if you want to give him a nibble.
Marisha: I gave him some Goodberries. I'll make up some more Goodberries.
Orion: We have a bunch of food and stuff. We'll be fine. We can move on with the journey.
Laura: So, it's groggy, but we decided to go see your family, right? Right now?
Marisha: I mean, I don't want to inconvenience anyone.
Laura: We're going, Keyleth.
Ashley: We're doing it!
Travis: There's fire.
Liam: I've always wanted to see a volcano, anyway.
Taliesin: Yes, it sounds lovely.
Laura: I'm sure they're all as charming as you are.
Travis: You'll win them over.
Orion: You'll be fine.
Taliesin: What's the worst that could happen? Oh, never mind. That was rhetorical. Don't actually want to know what the worst that could happen would be.
Marisha: I have to do a trial and meet their headmaster.
Travis: Royal stuff.
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: Keyleth, I saw you pile-drive a beholder. Pretty sure you're going to be all right.
Travis: That's true.
Ashley: Yeah, you're going to do it.
Marisha: It's not even that. It's sometimes learning about your past can be equally as terrifying. I don't know what I'm going to find.
Orion: Well, let's go discover it.
Marisha: Well, from what I heard, we head south towards Sunder Peak. Towards the southwest, it's volcanic territory.
Travis: Should we ask how far it is?
Marisha: Maybe. I only got vague directions.
Liam: Can we see Sunder Peak from here?
Matt: The landscape is very heavily wooded, and the canopy of the forest tends to rise and lower about the height of the wall itself. You can't really see anything beyond the wall of the city of Vasselheim, anyway.
Laura: So remember that way, we found a hydra, so we might come across some terrible things.
Travis: One of you wordsmiths go talk to somebody and ask directions.
Laura: I flag down the nearest person.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: It's happening. There's nothing you can do to stop this anymore. Embrace the inevitable.
Laura: 15.
Matt: Asking around and gathering a few folks and asking them questions, eventually you flag down one guy at the far end of the tavern; he's an amateur cartographer who's in the middle of sketching out the nearest area. He talks to you for a bit and you mention Sunder Peak Mountains and he goes, "Oh yeah, yes, no. Sunder Peak. It's not too far from Vasselheim. It's about two days' travel, on horseback southwest. The Sunder Peak Mountains themselves, be careful; they're pretty steep. I haven't actually gone within the mountain range myself, but I've been within a few miles of it just to make sure that I can mark it on my map, but yeah. It should be fine. Stay on the road."
Laura: Okay, stay on the road.
Marisha: Do you actually have a map that we could use? Borrow?
Matt: "This is not done. And I need to finish it before I can give it to a printer to make more."
Travis: What's your girlfriend's name?
Matt: "I should go." And he folds up his map.
Laura: No, wait! We'll be on the lookout for key things in the landscape to maybe give you information for your maps?
Matt: "Well, that would be very helpful."
Laura: What's your name?
Matt: "Tyriok."
Laura: Tyriok?
Matt: "Tyriok."
Liam: Matthew, we've been doing this for three years, and you still fucking blow me away game after game. I'm sorry. Tyriok, I meant to say.
Matt: "Anything you come across, please do take note of it. If you require a small piece of parchment, I can perhaps provide that as well."
Laura: Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Ashley: Wait, what happens if you don't stay on the road?
Matt: "Well, forests tend to-- "
Ashley: I mean I have an idea, but--
Matt: "There are things that live there that are generally pretty dangerous. They've had people who've travelled on these routes and at some point they've been attacked. Or worse, never came back."
Ashley: Wow. Do you know what they've been attacked by?
Matt: "I haven't."
Ashley: You don't know.
Laura: Hydra.
Marisha: Hydra.
Ashley: Hydra?
Laura: We fought a hydra, Pike.
Ashley: Not as in the-- I understand.
Laura: Like, five heads.
Matt: Glances back over at Grog's ominous stare towards him again. "I should be leaving."
Laura: Parchment.
Matt: "Yes." Hands you this rolled-up piece, relatively well-made.
Laura: We will use this to make notes.
Matt: "I appreciate that greatly."
Marisha: You wouldn't happen to have a compass, would you?
Matt: "No? Not that I can lend out."
Taliesin: We could make a compass if we really needed one. It's not hard to make a compass.
Matt: "Anyway. I'm usually here in the morning. Just going about my business. So whenever you need to find me--"
Laura: Tyriok.
Marisha: Tyriok.
Matt: He goes and heads off. You guys are welcome to prepare as you wish.
Liam: Well, we need horses, right? We don't want to walk.
Laura: Don't we have horses from our previous--
Matt: Your team has horses. This team does not.
Laura: But we have enough horses for all of us, from our previous run.
Taliesin: We had two extra horses.
Matt: You did.
Laura: Yeah. Let's just take those horses. We don't even have to pay for them.
Marisha: Awesome.
Travis: I need a new horse, because mine's back, the horse--
Laura: The back buckled?
Taliesin: You can ride the bear.
Laura: No, he can't.
Matt: It was pretty rough getting you there, even as a warhorse. You weigh a lot.
Travis: So probably a new horse.
Marisha: Wait. You drove the horse into the ground?
Laura: Okay, so we need two extra horses.
Liam: Oh, we're getting more? Did you bust up the last one?
Travis: He's all like this.
Laura: Okay. Let's go find a couple of horses. I'm going to ride Trinket, so we only need one extra horse.
Marisha: A warhorse for Grog.
Laura: Yes? I go get a horse for Grog.
Matt: Okay. The cost of the warhorse. Initially, when you get there, the stablehand who you talked to originally, "You've gone already through it. I can offer you another war horse. We're starting to run a little low, if you keep tearing through them at this rate."
Laura: Well, we'll say we're covered though, yeah.
Matt: "Oh, that's 400 gold to purchase yourself a warhorse."
Laura: Oh, 400. Darling, remember who we are. We gave you excellent business before. I have no idea what I'm saying.
Travis: Come on, this is your thing. Come on.
Laura: I think, as a return customer, you can offer us more of a deal than that.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: Come on. Natural 20! (shouting)
Travis: It's verified. That's a 20.
Matt: He goes, "Here. How about this. I will, based on your previous patronage, and if you can ensure that you would continue to send business my way, I would be happy to give it to you at half price."
Laura: Of course. Half price is a very fair deal. Grog. Pay the man.
Travis: Would you be interested in negotiating? Right. 200 gold.
Matt: (chuckling) Mark off 200 gold.
Orion: Wait, for two horses? Don't we need two?
Matt: There was a warhorse for him, and then there's two amongst you. I don't know if you wanted to become a horse and run.
Laura: I was going to ride Trinket so that there were three for them.
Travis: You could take the busted-up horse. It just can't carry me anymore.
Liam: Trinket could take Pike, too, with you.
Laura: Yeah, me and Pike will ride Trinket.
Matt: Okay. Well, then you're fine.
Orion: Is there another warhorse for sale for that price? Can we get the two for 400?
Matt: If you ask about this, he's like, "That wasn't part of the deal. If you want another warhorse, that's a different transaction entirely."
Orion: I'll take one. Full price. I won't bargain.
Matt: "400 gold."
Ashley: Wait, but where do you put Lockheed Peach?
Matt: "All right. Well, I'm afraid we're fresh out of war horses going forward. We'll have to make sure our tamer goes out, and probably be a few months before we get another load, so take care of what you have."
Orion: How much extra for some side saddles?
Matt: "Side saddles for that? I'll throw those in for free, for full price purchase, certainly. Side saddlebags for your warhorse."
Laura: Tiberius, I want it to be known that if you keep asking me for party funds, I will not be so--
Orion: These are my personal, of course. I would not want to upset you again, milady Vex. I have missed your company.
Laura: You're so charming today, Tiberius.
Liam: He called you a lady.
Laura: He did. (laughter)
Laura: Let's go see your family.
Marisha: (high-pitched) Okay!
Travis: And then if we get-- if we get just outside of the-- I'll wait.
Matt: Okay. You guys gather your horses, fresh warhorse and saddlebags upon yours as well, Tiberius. Fine sturdy steeds. This one looks to be a little more physically built than the previous one you purchased. Hopefully, it should last you a little longer. Hopefully. You make your way towards the southern gate of Vasselheim. The Bastions open it for you and lead you out to the front road that exits the south side of the city. Slowly, it begins to divide into a southeast and southwest direction. You guys, using the directions you acquired previously, begin pushing yourself in the southwestern direction of the path, leading you deep into the Vesper Timberlands. You notice the canopy of the forest itself is so thick and high that it is not so much an open pathway more than it is an open archway, a tunnel that has been carved through the forest for this path. It is a very dense, very dark-- even in the midday sun-- pathway, and it progresses this way for miles and miles. You can hear birds and the wildlife living loudly and out in the open amongst this forest. There are certain portions of the trail that you do see are being encroached upon by the forest and trees themselves. There are roots and vines that begin to stretch and try to reclaim the road, and you get the sensation that people that traverse here a lot have to perpetually keep it clear. There is something about this forest that in itself is its own breathing entity beyond what a normal forest would be. It seems to grow at a much faster pace, and even your previous experience in the deep portions of this forest, it almost has its own omnipresent, malicious presence. Continuing down for the rest of the day, eventually the sun comes to set and what little bit of moonlight that would find its way through the canopy is entirely cut off by the thickness of the leaves and boughs of the trees. You can continue to go through the night, if you wish to.
Orion: Light! (igniting sound)
Matt: A big beacon of light blasts out, continuing pushing forward down this pathway. It's about 9:30pm, and you have pretty good visual in front of you based on the light source that is Tiberius. How long do you want to push on forward?
Laura: I'm a little concerned, Tiberius. I'm afraid that some creatures might be attracted to that light source. It might actually be best to--
Orion: Oh. (snuffing sound)
Matt: Darkness once again takes the pathway.
Liam: Is there any moonlight?
Matt: You gather, glancing up, there are fractions and little pieces that give you the sense that some of the clouds have parted, and moonlight would be visible if you weren't underneath such a thick canopy of brush. If not for your darkvision and the little bit of light in there, you'd have no visual.
Laura: Light the end of your staff.
Orion: I'm going to cast Light under one of the flaps of my robe. (igniting sound)
Liam: Tibs. I pull off and hand him my Cloak of Elvenkind, which is one of the reasons I'm so hard to see. Maybe we could just use that as a shroud for it, just for tonight. I'll pass it to Tibs.
Orion: (igniting sound) I'll cast it under that, and you can be the source of light.
Matt: Instead of a beaming beacon of bright light, it has now become essentially a hood lantern that you are now directionally focusing.
Orion: Now you look really cool.
Travis: Do we want to push on, or do we want to rest? We should push on.
Marisha: I mean, we're all right, right?
Travis: We're all right.
Marisha: We're on a path?
Liam: 9 00 at night, you said?
Matt: It's 9 00 at night, yeah.
Liam: I think it's time to bed down. I mean, we're not in Los Angeles.
Marisha: How far did we make it?
Matt: I'd say, from when you left, it's probably been about six hours of travel, approximately, to where you are now.
Laura: Ooh, it would be smart. We've got another day's travel tomorrow.
Travis: Okay. Make camp.
Taliesin: Let's bed down. It's not like we don't have to sleep eventually.
Travis: I'll take the first watch.
Marisha: I'll do my Anti-Life Shell for the first hour. That way we all get an hour of good sleep.
Travis: Can I trace back a hundred yards and Dust of Tracelessness it, from where we came?
Laura: The Hunter's Mark that I cast on that merchant. Did he stay in town, or is he out and about? Can I sense that?
Matt: At this distance?
Laura: Six measly little hours of travel. I can track it.
Liam: Are you haggling with the fabric of time and space?
Laura: No, I'm just seeing if I can track the dude I put a Hunter's Mark on, is all.
Travis: She went back to the 30s.
Laura: See?
Travis: See?
Matt: I would say, at this distance, if you've travelled you've lost contact with him, however on the way out you got the sensation that he was still in the city, just not in the thoroughfare that he was originally spotted in.
Travis: Mourning getting negotiated so hard.
Matt: All right, so.
Orion: I'm going to roll real quick. I was going to do animal handling; that's the roll? Animal handling every day so I can train it to do stuff? So I didn't gain a point today. And I take out the Decanter of Endless Water-- water, anybody?-- And then I'm feeding Lockheed some.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and cast some more ammunition, since I'm out.
Marisha: I pull out my little book of druid spells and history, and I start freshening up on some fire spells.
Laura: I try to get Trinket to eat some vegetables.
Liam: I pass the fuck out.
Matt: (laughs) You conk out. Trinket takes to a couple, but seems to be reluctant as it's not what he's used to. It's a good start but Trinket still likes the comfort of fresh meat.
Laura: Trinket! Your uncle said your poo is runny. You need to eat some veggies.
Matt: (bear noises) Trinket nuzzles his nose and pushes it out of your hand on to the ground.
Travis: If I have the first watch, I have darkvision, and I take out my Firebrand Warhammer as I begin my watch.
Matt: Okay. It burns like a torch in your hand.
Travis: No, no fire.
Matt: No fire. Okay. You, because the only supplies you have to craft some ammunition without having an actual smithy at your disposal, it is possible; it's just difficult. So go ahead and take your tinker's tool check with disadvantage.
Taliesin: God damn it. 14.
Matt: 14? You use the remainder of your supplies that are currently on you. You manage to construct 12 rounds of ammunition for your Pepperbox, but you are currently out after that. And you were down to about three pieces left?
Taliesin: I was getting a little iffy.
Matt: I put you at a total of 15 bullets for your Pepperbox.
Laura: Can you use bulette armor to make more bullets?
Taliesin: I can use metal. They're basically made of iron, so honestly I don't know.
Travis: We have two more pieces of broken-up armor and a lantern. And manacles.
Liam: And you're on watch, right? Before I passed out I handed him my cloak, all wadded up in a ball around it, and handed it to him.
Matt: Okay. It's hard for you to repurpose anything metal without an actual smelter.
Taliesin: Yeah. I knew I would just get a little bit on the road right now.
Matt: Yeah. And you can try for the Bad News ammunition. You should be about five shots left.
Taliesin: Five shots. That sounds about enough.
Orion: So to take a long rest, I take can one hour or two hours? To still have a long rest and do stuff.
Matt: A long rest is eight hours.
Orion: So an hour before that, I'm starting to enchant the staff.
Matt: Enchanting for a staff is a day focus. You can do it slowly over time to help offset that, but it'll take you a lot longer to do it on the road. It's more of like, when you get back and you want to focus on enchanting it, you can get it done. Cool. You go over your spells, you have that crafted, torch, anything else before you go to bed?
Taliesin: Do I get an up to my hit points at level 11? Do I get to roll more hit points at level 11?
Matt: Yes. Have you not done that yet?
Taliesin: I haven't done anything other than take my new abilities.
Matt: Okay, well let's go ahead and do that right now.
Taliesin: Roll a d10?
Matt: d10 plus your constitution modifier. Percy is now level 11.
Taliesin: Yeah, that happened.
Travis: Welcome!
Ashley: Yeah!
All: (sing the Super Mario level complete music)
Taliesin: That's ten. I'm up ten points. Hit points.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: I rolled an eight, and my constitution modifier is two.
Matt: Right, ten more hit points.
Marisha: Oh and actually, you know what. Before we go to sleep, or actually first thing in the morning before I learn my new spells--
Matt: You're also three attacks per round now, which is awesome.
Taliesin: Yes, I am.
Marisha: I'm also going to go ahead and be like, hey guys. I made breakfast! And make a Heroes' Feast.
Laura: Another Heroes' Feast?
Travis: At night or in the morning?
Marisha: At night, because I had it learned.
Matt: Everyone's going to eat a Heroes' Feast before bed? Okay?
Laura: Wait. How long does it last us?
Marisha: 24 hours?
Matt: Yeah, it's 24 hours.
Laura: Okay, so until we go to bed tomorrow.
Marisha: Yeah. Because I'm learning new spells in the morning.
Taliesin: What do we get?
Matt: As you pull out the second gem-encrusted bowl that you purchased in the bazaar earlier, you mark off another thousand gold pieces from your personal fund, and as you guys watch, Keyleth all of a sudden puts her hands out in front of her, and from the very earth itself around your campsite (fwoosh) springs forth this long table of cornucopias and fruits and fine meats. The smell permeates the air like the best eating hall you've ever been to.
Orion: Oh! Bananas!
Marisha: I thought of you.
Laura: This is amazing, Keyleth.
Ashley: Oh, man!
Travis: I pick up Keyleth, I give her a big squeeze. Oh, thank you.
Marisha: (choking noises) Grog!
Travis: Oh, sorry. I drop her.
Ashley: I'm going to try the carpet again.
Matt: Okay, so as you're eating and chopping, you step away from the table and set the carpet down, and you grab your holy symbol, and you close your eyes, praying up to Sarenrae to hopefully in some way, shape, or form, be of an aid in restoring this once-enchanted ally.
Travis: Be a zero or a one.
Ashley: Two.
Laura: Isn't that good, to roll a two?
Travis: She has to hit 11 or under.
Matt: You sense that once again, the attention of Sarenrae is scattered. And at this moment in time, you feel like there is little attention towards this small arcane artifact that was lost not of your own hand.
Ashley: I know. I'm sorry, Sarenrae.
Marisha: So at the top of the morning, as part of the Heroes' Feast, everyone gets 2d12--
Matt: 2d10. 2d10 additional hit points to your maximum.
Marisha: And you heal that, as well.
Laura: For a day?
Travis: We roll that right now?
Marisha: And you also fill up that, as well.
Ashley: Yay, that's amazing.
Liam: That's tight, right there.
Laura: Tight!
Liam: Yes, thank you for introducing that to Liam's vocabulary.
Marisha: Also, everyone now has advantage on their wisdom saving throws.
Travis: Just for the day, right?
Marisha: For 24 hours.
Matt: You're immune to poison, immune to diseases, immune to being frightened, and all wisdom saving throws have advantage.
Ashley: Immune to being frightened? All of us?
Matt: After eating this meal, it instills you with an extremely powerful nature-based enchantment. You feel your physical form given unnatural heartiness, and the confidence instills your entire body. And so you are immune to poison, immune to disease, immune to frightened, and you get advantage on your wisdom saving throws for 24 hours.
Travis: I ain't afraid of no ghosts
Ashley: The opposite of tryptophan?
Matt: A very fine, a very expensive meal. All right. You guys eventually find yourself getting to rest. Through the evening's rest, Grog keeping watch, eventually the weight of the meal comes to your form, and you begin to fall asleep. You all wake up in the morning untouched, unscathed, but all asleep.
Travis: (snoring)
Liam: (gasps)
Travis: Fuck!
Ashley: You fell asleep!
Travis: No! No. It was just so calm that once the sun came up, I heard you-- I fell asleep.
Laura: You've got a lot of drool in your beard.
Liam: I'll take the first watch next time. Everything's good. No use crying over spilt milk. Let's keep going.
Marisha: It's good to have a good night's sleep, though.
Liam: Yoink. Thank you. (whoosh)
Travis: Sorry! Zero... zero!
Matt: Hundred. No progression on your beard.
Travis: Aw, I thought it was like the lowest roll you could ever do.
Laura: Zero means ten. That's a hundred. That's the best you can do.
Liam: The lowest you can get is ten.
Travis: Shit.
Liam: Or 11, really.
Matt: It's all right. But you still have your fancy little Lincoln going on.
Travis: They call me Honest Grog. Like Lincoln? No?
Taliesin: No, I was there. I was with you.
Travis: Zero, zero! Hundred.
Laura: Let's go!
Matt: All right. You ride up again, you get yourself back on the path and you progress up the pathway. You continue to ride for the next six to seven or so hours, stopping briefly to eat lunch and just get your energy up.
Orion: Feed Lockheed.
Laura: Leftover from the big feast.
Matt: There's been no change in Lockheed's health visually yet. But you continue the process. You push forward for the remainder of the day, eventually getting to the end of your second day of travel. As the sun is beginning to slowly set, you watch the direction it's passing and you can see now in the distance what appears to be a large mountain range beginning to appear above the breaks in the canopy where you can see part of the trees begin to part. There are aspects of the sky visible. You can see the clouds have regathered; there's a little bit of sunlight that breaks through every now and then, you can see just the general glow of the sky as it pushes over, but you do see the edge of a mountain range in the distance, probably no more than a couple hours of travel to get to the actual base of.
Marisha: (worried sounds)
Orion: That wasn't a word.
Travis: Is that an Ashari song?
Marisha: I'm just-- it's just a lot of pressure. It's good.
Orion: So how should we approach?
Marisha: Well, just. Approach. Like one would. Approach.
Matt: You hear a sudden clap of thunder (thunderclap). Comes rumbling through the sky. And you can see, above the mountain range, the clouds that are gathering are very dark, and a roiling thunderstorm is starting to break over the mountain range. You see flashes of light from within, and a few other claps of thunder rolling over the mountain range.
Laura: Does it look natural?
Matt: It looks like a thunderstorm. It's not ominously dark more than what you're used to, but it looks like there is a thunderstorm blowing through.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check, see how long it's going to hang out? Ooh, 17, that's 27.
Matt: You take a moment and watch it. It is stationary. Taking a very close look, it doesn't appear to be pouring any rain. It's just a thick gathering of black thunderclouds that has yet to release its watery payload.
Laura: What do you think, Keyleth? Does it look safe to traverse?
Marisha: It just formed, right? We watched it happen?
Matt: As you approached and noticed, you could see that the storm is there.
Orion: Apparently, your people have a taste for the theatrics.
Laura: Do you think that's where they are?
Marisha: I drop to my knees, and I do Commune With Nature.
Matt: As you spend a little time focusing on the landscape around you. What's the range on that?
Marisha: It's big. 5th-level spell.
Matt: Here we go. Got it. (laugh) All right. So three miles of you. It's a little bit beyond three miles, but you gather at least within the distance there that-- nothing immediately visible, but the temperature, you can gather, gets slightly warmer as you approach the mountain range. That's the most you can gather from this distance.
Marisha: Looks like that's the way.
Liam: Is it safe to just approach?
Marisha: That's what I did with the Earth Ashari, but I mean, they were welcoming and kind.
Orion: Maybe they will be, too. You know, maybe they just like being warm.
Ashley: Do they have a reputation of being--
Marisha: We haven't made contact with them in almost two generations. I don't know. Last time we made contact with them it was fine, and everyone was good, but who knows. It's been a while, because my mother didn't come back.
Liam: This is maybe awkward, but you and we share something in common. Our past is awkward. I get the sense that yours is not as much. Your people, are they a mix of many kinds?
Marisha: How we came to be-- for all we know; once again, roughly a thousand years ago-- certain people possessed natural abilities. We assumed we were blessed by the gods of nature, and when we realized we had these abilities and then the Sundering happened, that's when we banded together, but it could have been anyone between humans, elves, there were a few dwarfs, gnomes. Mainly humans and elves. So we're primarily-- I guess you could say mutts. Primarily half-elven, but we separated off into our own separate tribes, so we each developed our own individual cultures, even though we came from the same root.
Liam: But predominantly a melding of humans and elves.
Marisha: But we're accepting of all races. At least, the Air and the Earth Ashari are.
Orion: And I assume they are steeped in tradition, as well, such as your own people.
Marisha: Yes, absolutely. And each tribe has its own tradition. It's had a lot of time to develop.
Orion: Oh, I see. I'm going to reach in my-- Dust of Illusion, and-- (laughter)
Liam: Friendly fire!
Orion: It's okay. It didn't break.
Matt: That was the day that Orion set himself on fire.
Taliesin: Right here, on camera.
Liam: We just hit 7,000 subs when Orion set himself on fire!
Orion: It happens all the time when you bend it.
Taliesin: (sputtering, laughing)
Orion: It's fine. We're all okay.
Marisha: It touched my ass! It hit me in the ass.
Taliesin: There's, like, five jokes I'm not making right now.
Orion: And I just sprinkle some on myself, and I turn my scales silver.
Matt: Okay. (magic noise) All of your scales shift into a glistening silver color, that of the same scales that the followers of Bahamut had adorned their armor with when you went to that section of Vasselheim.
Orion: This is the color my brother Faeryn is.
Laura: It looks good on you.
Liam: Yes. So you're a silver-colored dragonborn now?
Orion: If they are steeped in tradition, the metallic dragonkin are more welcome in societies, more than the chromatic. As we've seen.
Liam: Judging books by their cover, yes. I ride my horse around in a circle just to face everybody and say, everyone, maybe go a bit back, go behind Keyleth. Vex'ahlia and I will trail just behind as your retinue.
Marisha: Sure.
Ashley: Is there anything we can do to help? Or just make you feel a little bit more at ease?
Marisha: I don't know what to expect.
Orion: I have this Longbottom herb you can smoke before we go?
Marisha: I'm good. I'll wait.
Liam: We need her clear, Tiberius.
Marisha: See, what I'm most nervous about is, when I went to the Earth Tribe they said that my mother had passed through. And went through her training, and her Ulare trip, and she was fine. And then continued on.
Laura: Maybe your mother's still here?
Matt: (thunder) Another lightning clap.
Taliesin: Let's get a move on, I think.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Keyleth, we're all here behind you. You've got this.
Laura: We'll pretend to be your small army. You are our leader.
Marisha: Okay. And please, don't mention anything about us being called the SHITs when we first got started.
Ashley: Vox Machina, that's all it is.
Travis: Wait, is that Kashaw? Made you look. Break the tension! Never mind, you've got it.
Matt: You continue riding towards the mountain range at the base of the Sunder Peak Mountains. Eventually the forest begins to give way as the ground itself becomes less and less hospitable to vegetation. There's a certain smell to the air that seems to come through the wind that buffets the bottom of the mountain range itself. It smells like a distant forest fire. Like, you can smell almost like burnt cedar, a little bit of ash to the air. You make your way to the base. Everyone roll a perception check.
Liam: 15.
Taliesin: 17.
Marisha: Nervous. 14.
Ashley: 17.
Laura: 15.
Travis: Eight.
Orion: 13.
Marisha: 14.
Matt: Okay. Percy. Everyone else, you look about this mountain range and it's just the sheer edge, like there's no real sign, outside from climbing it up, how you'd manage to find--
Laura: Oh! Is it favored terrain?
Matt: Is mountainous part of your favored terrain?
Laura: Oh, is it still mountains?
Matt: Yes, these are mountains. You glance up, though. You notice that there is apparently two paths that diverge at the very base. They're very steep, back and forth switchback winding paths that lead up the front of the mountain. It's hard to see exactly where they lead, because once they reach a certain point the rest of the mountain cliff seems to blend into itself. But you do notice there are two maybe five-foot wide, very thin switchback paths that lead up the side of the mountain.
Taliesin: Oh look, we have two options for our ways up.
Liam: Two paths, Percy?
Taliesin: Two paths. I want to examine the path to see if there's one that's been more trod.
Liam: Let's choose the one less travelled, then.
Taliesin: That won't make much of a difference.
Matt: We're cultured. (laughter)
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: 14. Glancing at the two sides, the left path appears to be far more worn. The right path is largely untouched, with a thin layer of ash coating it, so you get the feeling that one hasn't seen use in quite some time.
Taliesin: Are the prints going both directions, or is there a majority going one or the other?
Matt: On the left side, they seem to go both ways, but even those prints are fairly old. At least a week or two has seen any sort of traction on the path.
Taliesin: Footprints, horse prints, both?
Matt: Footprints.
Taliesin: No horse prints.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: What do you see, Percival?
Taliesin: I see the path is probably too treacherous to bring the horses. We might want to leave them here. One path has barely been touched, the other one has been pretty well ridden through. I say we take the more common path.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: So you leave your horses behind? Okay.
Liam: Are there trees to tie them up?
Matt: There are some trees towards the edge here.
Laura: Wait, why are we taking the more travelled one? Do you think your family is more reclusive?
Marisha: Our tribe, we generally can still make contact and trade with nearby towns, generally. There might be more travelled ones, once again I'm not sure.
Liam: Yeah, the one that Keyleth's people, or cousins, or whatever they are, have been taking.
Marisha: Yeah, let's try the path more travelled first.
Matt: So you guys leave your horses behind. You tie them up to one of the nearby trees, one that's off to the side, leave a little bit of feed for them.
Laura: We tied them.
Matt: Okay. You make your way up the switchback path, up the side of the mountain. It is relatively steep. It continues up at about a 40-degree incline, and there are certain moments where it tends to pinch to about a two-foot-wide path, and you have to uncomfortably put your back to the side of the mountain to get through those passes. You're about, I'd say about an hour and a half, two hours later, the sun has officially set, and what little bit of moonlight would be brought forth is currently encased by the thunderstorm ahead, and you do still hear the occasional clap of thunder and see the occasional flash that almost seems to be happening above the range, out of visual sight.
Liam: I think we need light so we don't go over the edge.
Orion: Sure. (igniting sound)
Matt: Tiberius creates a beacon of light at the edge of his staff, and being centrally located to the team, is a fairly good source of visual light to the pathway. You guys continue to go up the side. I'm going to go ahead and have everybody do a constitution saving throw here.
Marisha: Druid dice! Not good.
Orion: 18.
Taliesin: 13.
Marisha: Nine.
Laura: Nine.
Ashley: 17.
Travis: 18.
Matt: This isn't a chill-based thing. The air itself, the wind that's blowing down, is filled with this thick ash-type dust that's coming through here. You're finding yourself coughing. It's getting into your lungs a little bit.
Taliesin: I've got a mask for this. I'm going to put on the mask.
Matt: Okay, you pull your mask down.
Laura: I pull my hood up.
Matt: No immediate effects, but you find yourself unable to suppress an occasional cough. You continue up the side of the mountain. You guys pull your cloth up over your faces. You make your way. It's pushing almost midnight at this point in time, and you're getting tired, your legs are growing sore from the constant perpetual walk upwards at an angle. The path begins to become less of a switchback, and you can see it's beginning to pull inwards towards what looks like a ravine in the mountain range. There's an area where the actual mountain carves inward and leads into the mountain range proper. During that time, Vex, as you guys are making your way up to this slight inward path and it starts pushing into the mountain range, less dangerous and less pressed against the mountain as you were previously, you notice up at the top there are a few shadowed figures just out of your visual range that you can just make out over the backlight of the clouds in the sky.
Laura: Do they look--
Matt: You can make a perception check.
Laura: Fuck. I chose poorly. That's terrible. Yeah. Eight.
Matt: Eight. At this distance, it's hard to really make out any sort of visual on their form, their size, but you just see there's a handful of them and it looks like three figures that are moving in unison along the ridge a little ways up ahead of you guys.
Laura: Shut up.
Matt: Can I go ahead and get a stealth check from the group? With disadvantage on the ones that failed their constitution saves.
Marisha: How do we know if we failed?
Matt: The fail is the nine or below. Yeah. I'll let you know if it's a fail or not, but you guys, everyone has to make a stealth check, and the ones who currently have the coughs have disadvantage on the roll.
Marisha: Who has the coughs? How do we know?
Travis: Your clanging armor didn't do nothing!
Marisha: Did I fail? With a nine?
Matt: With a nine? Yes, you did. You're also coughing.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Orion: 22.
Taliesin: 11.
Marisha: 14.
Matt: 14?
Travis: 21.
Laura: Whoa.
Ashley: 19.
All: Whoa!
Ashley: I have been oiling my armor.
Travis: She didn't have disadvantage. She rolled a 17 on her constitution.
Matt: Right, so you were fine.
Liam: How did Trinket do?
Laura: 15. I did not roll for Trinket for either of those things.
Matt: Go ahead and roll stealth on Trinket.
Liam: Mighty two.
Travis: A mighty two.
Laura: You're so annoying.
Travis: You know you don't have to breathe all of it in every time.
Liam: Oh, right, no. 15, sorry, 15. For stealth, right?
Matt: For stealth.
Liam: (coughs loudly)
Matt: As you guys make your way into the path and she points this out, there's a couple people that kind of, there's a quiet silence, and then (coughing) a couple of coughs coming through. Shushed as best you can, you can see the figures shift and then vanish from sight.
Travis: Should we hurry? What do you think?
Laura: Well, they know now.
Marisha: I'm going to do a perception check and see if I can see any sign of a village or a town or my people. 23.
Matt: Looking around, the pathway still continues upward, and it continues and then disappears over a ridge where the mountains come inward to the closest portion where the mountain range tends to break. You can't see anything beyond that, because it's still too far away from you.
Marisha: Knowing my people and my tribe, would I know if these were centurions?
Matt: You have no idea. You haven't been to this territory. You know that centurions usually are sent out, and people keep watch on the landscape around, but you have no idea.
Travis: Because I know the mountains, are we still on that crappy narrow precipice?
Matt: That crappy path is starting to move inward finally towards the actual mountain; it's starting to crest over into the top area, where it goes into almost more like a ravine where the two walls of the mountain come together to give you a small valley path that leads--
Travis: Could I look and see if there are any boulder, avalanche-type situations that I can see--
Matt: Sure, make a perception check.
Liam: Can I clarify something? Am I giving Scanlan a shoulder-ride right now, or is he knocking boots back in Vasselheim?
Matt: Yeah. Scanlan... paid well for enough attention to celebrate his current non-freezing-death or smashing by a dragon. He's still recovering through the positive reinforcement of numerous female workers.
Liam: Yes, I call it a tiefling trio.
Travis: There's going to be art for that.
Taliesin: Don't say things like that out loud.
Matt: Do you guys continue?
Taliesin: I think so.
Laura: Can I-- I mean--
Marisha: Let's continue on.
Matt: All right. You continue pushing in, and this area where the mountain range tends to collide to this path that then leads on. It's slowly winding around and heading upward and closer and closer in towards where the mountain range crests. There's a couple more flashes of lightning, some thunder, and you all look around.
Orion: I rolled an 18, because I want to do an arcana check for anything I can feel from that storm.
Matt: 18. Best you can gather, the storm is localized, it is not moving, and this type of storm seems to be more generated not because there is a gathering of storm activity or any natural rain that falls in this area-- and in fact, most of the rock and landscape you see here is very dry-- this usually accompanies a place of very strong power. Natural occurrences where there is a funnel or focus of some sort of unbridled arcane or divine energy tends to call this type of aberrant weather pattern to it.
Marisha: This would sometimes happen at the Air Ashari, as well. We'd get windstorms occasionally. It happens.
Matt: You hear a strange clacking sound, and you glance up just in time to see a large boulder (booming sounds) down the mountain. So for this one in particular, this would be towards the people that are in front. That would be Keyleth, Vex, Vax, and Trinket.
Marisha: Do I have enough time to react?
Matt: You guys can go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Orion: How big is the boulder?
Matt: It's roughly six feet in diameter. It barrels through the vicinity.
Marisha: 23.
Matt: One?
Orion: Can I try to do something right now?
Matt: We'll let them do the reaction first.
Laura: What was my number? It was 13? 13 for me, and Trinket gets 13, as well.
Matt: 13 and 13.
Orion: Can I try and do something?
Matt: As soon as I finish their action, basically the boulder (smack) and they all tried to dodge out of the way, and then you can do your action.
Orion: I'm going to try to cast Telekinesis, and (whoosh).
Matt: Okay. The casting of the spell itself takes a moment. It's one of those things where it's not an instant thing, you have to do the motions for it. It's not so much instant. However, as the boulder manages to roll by, all of you except for Vax manage to roll out of the way in time. Everyone ducked out as the boulder trucks past. You take 16 points of bludgeoning damage as the boulder slams into your side.
Marisha: 60?
Marisha: 16
Matt: 16
Taliesin: 16
Matt: You immediately glance up to the top, and you can now see three figures have gathered at the very top of this ridge, and you can see two more are lifting boulders.
Travis: Lifting boulders?
Laura: Oh, are they giants? Are they more fucking giants?
Matt: Glancing up, best you can see, and they're about 45 to 50 feet up on this ridge-line. They appear to be larger than normal humans. They are humanoid. You, with your highest perception, glance up and you can see each one has two heads across one set of shoulders. (straining noises)
Laura: Can we get in a place that boulders won't hit us? If we get right up against the cliff face?
Matt: You can certainly try.
Orion: So now we see that happening?
Matt: You guys all see this happening now.
Orion: Cool, so as I see the next one I cast Telekinesis on the one he's about to throw and huck it right back at him.
Matt: Okay. One of the boulders gets loosed; now this one's coming towards the bottom group here as Tiberius, you reach up and do that. Go ahead and roll a strength check, with the strength of the boulder, which I believe is-- (muttering) What's the strength check on this boulder?
Marisha: How far away are they, roughly?
Matt: They're about 45 to 50 feet up on the pathway.
Travis: We could just bolt. We're at the bottom of the valley.
Matt: All right, so you just roll and add five. Roll and add five to your d20.
Orion: Okay, that was 15.
Matt: 15? He rolled a five, even with his strength bonus. He throws the boulder down, the boulder smacks him right back in the face. You can see he just (groans) tips over backward out of visual range, there are now two of them currently visible at the top. All right, so go ahead and make your attack; the rest of you guys get a round. However, at this point in time as you guys are preparing, the second boulder comes crashing down towards the second half. I need Percy, Pike, Grog, and Tiberius to make dexterity saving throws.
Marisha: Do you guys want to run?
Orion: Nope. Got a solid five.
Matt: Dexterity saving throw. Five?
Laura: 14 on the first one.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: Okay. 14 is fine.
Travis: 13.
Ashley: 15?
Matt: 15? Okay. All but Tiberius, you guys dodge out the way. Tiberius, who's concentrating on the Telekinesis-- (impact noise) The secondary boulder, unfortunately, connects. You take 12 points of bludgeoning damage. I need you to make a concentration check. Roll a d20. Add five to it.
Orion: That's 24.
Matt: 24? Yeah, you maintain concentration. As it almost knocks you off your side, you manage to (grunts) maintain your focus on the spell; your Telekinesis is still going.
Laura: I try to hit him with an arrow.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16 hits. You go (flying arrow) you loose it and it goes hurtling up the side through the darkness and it finds purchase somewhere in the face of the entity. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Yeah! 17.
Matt: 17, nice.
Laura: I didn't Hunter's Mark him.
Taliesin: Is the entity still lifting boulders?
Matt: There are two entities currently that are still up. One you can't see because it got the boulder smashed back into its face.
Travis: As much as I like being targets for their lawn bowling, we are in the bottom of a fucking valley.
Marisha: Yeah, we're in a death pit, man.
Ashley: Run.
Matt: You guys just run? Okay. You start bolting forward (heavy steps). You can see the two entities now reach over and grab rocks and start running.
Ashley: Run zig-zags!
Marisha: I turn around where they are right in front and throw up a big Wall of Stone.
Matt: They both throw boulders overhead, now arcing, missing the entire ravine trying to get it downward.
Orion: Is my thing still going?
Matt: Your Telekinesis is still going, yeah.
Orion: I'm going to catch one and (whoosh).
Marisha: Don't take out my Wall of Stone!
Orion: No, I'm going to whack the dude.
Matt: One of them rolls down, and it would have impacted except for the Wall of Stone, it hits-- let me see the strength of that-- oh, it rolled a one on its strength. The boulder slams right at the bottom of the ravine, gets even more speed as it ramps up like a bowling ball and slams into the stone wall. The stone wall (impact noise) heaves and cracks, and portions of it fall and collapse, but it does manage to stop the force of that boulder. The second one comes overhead towards you. Go ahead and make a d20 roll and add five to it.
Orion: 19.
Matt: 19? Yeah, I rolled an eight. You manage to (straining) catch the boulder. It's just on the cusp of the weight limit you would have on Telekinesis, but you manage to stop it in mid-air and catch it. You're just throwing it off to the side?
Orion: No, I'm going to huck it right back to the other guy again! (swish, whoosh)
Matt: Okay. It's a heavy boulder and it's a long 50-foot distance away so I'm going to go ahead and have you roll another d20 plus five.
Orion: That's 14.
Matt: 14. You manage to stop it from crushing your party, and you throw it up and it manages to roll up the side, get partway up, and then continue arcing and rolling down. Away from you guys, safely. Skee ball style.
Marisha: Running!
Laura: I pat Tiberius on the back as I pull him along. Run!
Matt: You guys keep running. You notice as you're bolting forward, the two entities that are looming reach over and--
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to stop, if I see one pick up a ball, I'm going to stop and take an action, if that's okay.
Matt: Sure, go for it.
Taliesin: I'm going to swing around, I'm going to pull Bad News out as I swing around, back myself down, and I'm taking an aimed shot at its arm.
Matt: Okay, go for it. You're spending a grit point?
Taliesin: Spending a grit point. It's been so long. There we are. Yeah! Oh, the curse is broken, that's 29, 31.
Matt: 31. Definitively hits.
Taliesin: 31.
Matt: What does the arm shot do? It's no damage, right?
Taliesin: The arm shot is-- okay, sorry. It's been a while. I've never done this one before. No damage, but it drops one item of my choice.
Matt: So as it's lifting the boulder, you fire, and it hits the elbow out from under it.
Taliesin: And I use the strength of the shot to pick myself up and keep on running.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an acrobatics check. So as one of them is lifting a giant boulder--
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: 23? You're fine. Percy swings around, fires Bad News. That echoes through the entire ravine, (echoing gunshot) acting as a sound focus. You hear it echoing outward from the blast that sends Percy back, but Percy turns around, throws his arm down on the ground, and using the momentum from the blast picks himself up, leaps onto his feet, and continues running in time with the rest of you, a trail of smoke billowing behind him from the barrel of Bad News, which you can see is now glowing with a bit of red warmth, the metal itself heated from the sheer force of the blast. At this time, you look up and see one of the entities with the two heads is lifting a boulder over its head. One of its elbows (gunshot) out from under it (collapsing sound) as it collapses onto its head, and that one also falls out of view as the other one looks back and sets the boulder down. Starts shaking its fists at the air (angry grunting).
Marisha: (laughs) Rabble rabble.
Travis: In Giant I call back, fuck you!
Matt: In Giant?
Travis: I don't know if it is a giant. It had two heads.
Taliesin: That felt really good.
Matt: You recognize the echoing voice, it says, "Come back here, food!" But you shout that back at it. It goes, "Hey!" You guys have just charged. At which point, the ravine begins to open into what looks like a-- let me get a little out of this chaos here-- the ravine opens up into a valley. It looks like the top of this mountain range, the top crested area surrounds this valley that slowly descends into the center of this large mountain. You guys have walked up the outside of it.
Orion: A hidden valley.
Ashley: Hidden Valley ranch. Sorry, it sounds so stupid. (laughter)
Matt: The valley itself is roughly three miles across to the other side of this crested mountain range.
Marisha: Three miles?
Matt: Yeah. You notice this valley is actually a settled-in, bowl-like caldera. You realize this particular mountain was once, or possibly still is, an active volcano. As you begin to move in closer, the ground itself becomes more and more jagged, with what looks like broken obsidian rock, sharp volcanic stone and glass. It is a very warm heat that this area tends to give off, and the temperature is now significantly causing you to sweat. Not just from the run, but the severe change in temperature from what you're used to in this area of the continent.
Orion: This feels great to me. I'm stretching out my scales, letting the heat in. Oh yeah, that's good.
Matt: The air, now, the burning wooden ash smell is becoming much stronger, and you re-adjust your cloth to cover your mouth. You also, as you begin to push closer and closer towards the center, you begin to see occasional pools of ashy mud dotting the landscape, where sulfurous gas caused the liquid earth to bubble and fume in certain patches.
Orion: Lady Keyleth, is that you? Oh, it's--
Ashley: Oh, are we--?
Matt: Everyone go ahead and roll perception.
Orion: As they are doing this with their noses, I'm going to open my bottle of air and just have it (soft spraying sound).
Marisha: Ooh! 28.
Taliesin: 15.
Ashley: 13.
Laura: 12, man.
Liam: One.
Laura: What is our rolls tonight?
Marisha: Twinsies. Twinsies rolls.
Orion: That is a negative two.
Matt: (laughing) Okay!
Orion: There, see?
Liam: Take that, game, take that.
Matt: Far off in the distance, Keyleth, as the rest of you look at the landscape, you see what looks like a small forest, a very localized forest right in the center of the valley. You can see a cluster of trees that exists about a mile, a mile and a half away from your current position. As you guys continue pushing forward, you start seeing larger stone clusters and formations, almost like a very violent activity were forcing and jutting up portions of stone out of this caldera at some point.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to see if it's natural, from earthquakes, or if earthbenders have done it? 25.
Matt: Looking at it, it appears that a lot of it appears to be natural, but there are portions that appear to be sculpted or have sections that are cleaved off or taken by possible tools for use of building or other purposes.
Marisha: And most of it appears to be obsidian?
Matt: Obsidian, volcanic rock, which is very porous and light and somewhat brittle in places, and occasionally you see sections of glass, smooth glass that fill pockets across the ground. As you get about half a mile to three-quarters of a mile into this caldera, towards that forest you were seeing in the distance, there is a loud grinding of stone out of nowhere, this (grinding) sound. All of you glance around as suddenly (whooshing) a series of stone walls rise out of the ground, surrounding you. Front, back, side to side, and a fifth one closes the top off. You are now left in complete darkness, imprisoned in what seems to be some sort of a stone cube.
Orion: What? (Light sound effect)
Travis: Oh my god!
Orion: Sorry.
Laura: Really bright in here.
Matt: As you look around indeed, relatively rough-looking stone walls have completely encapsulated you guys on all five sides. You are all entirely trapped inside the structure about 40 feet high and 40 feet across.
Laura: We dig? We dig down? Can we dig?
Orion: I think a Fireball can do this-- no I'm just kidding.
Travis: I take the warhammer, activate it and run up towards the walls and swing as hard as I can into one of the walls.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll a strength check.
Travis: (strained wince)
Ashley: Can I assist?
Matt: (laughs) If you want to. You rush up with you mace, as well.
Travis: 19.
Ashley: Oh, you don't need assistance.
Travis: Yeah, I do. From Pike, anytime.
Laura: Nine.
Ashley: Nine.
Matt: So the two of you together slam your weapons into the side of the wall, a portion of the stone cracks a little and chips fall out, but the stone still stands pretty solidly.
Liam: Everybody stop! Keyleth!
Marisha: Can I see through it where they chipped away?
Matt: Where they chipped away, there's still more stone behind. You're not sure how thick these walls are.
Liam: We just wait or Keyleth talks. Wait.
Matt: About a moment later, you see a small red glow appear from a portion of the wall on the opposite side. Red glow, looking like a portion of the stone, about this wide, begins to glow bright red before dripping off molten, leaving a small slit. You can now see through the slit, a few heads appearing as one steps into, eyes, shifting, peering through the small space. "You trespass into our home. I will ask you once your business before we let the mountain's fury take you."
Marisha: Please. I am Keyleth of the Air Ashari, and I am here to further my Aramente.
Matt: He looks back for a second. Go ahead and make a persuasion roll with advantage.
Liam: I kneel down toward Keyleth.
Laura: And I bow.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: And I look around and I'm like--
Matt: So?
Marisha: Persuasion?
Matt: With advantage.
Laura: Can we assist?
Liam: We're doing it.
Marisha: Persuasion's not good. Ten.
Orion: I don't bow. I'm still at her side.
Matt: You guys have all kneeled around her. There is a moment where they all look about themselves. "So, Keyleth of the Air Ashari, you know of our people, you trek up here with a group of strangers at your sides, welcome weapons at the ready. I ask you, for the Aramente, whom do you call family? Whom gave you to this world?"
Marisha: My father, Korren, and my mother, Vilya. My mother was my predecessor. Wait, no, that's-- right? Yes, predecessor.
Orion: Yes, your Highness.
Marisha: She followed in my path. I'm following in her path.
Matt: The eyes have now moved away from the slot.
Marisha: Damn it. God, I'm so bad at being eloquent.
Matt: A moment later, you hear a large (stone crushing), a large impact sound and a voice say, "Stand back!"
Laura: How?
Ashley: For what?
Travis: We all back up.
Matt: As you all back away, the front wall of stone that was put up before you, that the eyes were looking through, suddenly (crashing) crumbles into a pile on its own, revealing the caldera before you, once again. There stand about ten individuals, all dressed in what looks like dark brown and black hides and leathers, with sections of what looks like obsidian-tipped weapons, certain arrows are cocked at the ready against the rest of you, and one individual, the one that was speaking to you earlier comes forward. You see all of these people, they are from varying races: dwarves, halflings, humans, about three half-elves among them, when an elven man comes forth, and you recognize through the eyes and the tone of voice, this is the one that spoke to you through the slit in the stone. He has no hair. Completely bald of all hair. Tattooed darkness around his eyes and you can see his entire left arm is covered in a long-healed but horrible burn scar. He steps up and gives you a nod of affirmation. "Then you shall tell this to the Flamespeaker. If you are indeed Ashari, he will know what to do with you. Come with us."
Marisha: And what, might I ask, is your name?
Matt: Glances back over his shoulder. "Calhoun. But I'm not the one you wish to speak with."
Orion: Hi, I'm Tiberius Stormwind.
Matt: He turns around and continues walking back towards the forest.
Marisha: Let me do all the talking this time.
Laura: Would you like us to follow you, Your Majesty?
Marisha: Oh, you don't-- yes, family, my brothers and sisters.
Laura: Got it.
Matt: You guys continue walking alongside Keyleth, and as you do, most of the druids flank you to each side, about four of them, with arrows still drawn, walking behind you as you progress. They are still armed and keeping a close eye on you as you travel.
Laura: This is really not necessary.
Marisha: Just let them do it.
Matt: Calhoun leads the way and you guys continue traveling for about half an hour or so until eventually you begin to reach an area where you see more of these rock structures, but many of them have been carved out, or a series of stones have been gathered to build small huts and abodes. You can see this is essentially a village built from all the materials that were scavenged from or brought to this caldera to construct Pyrah, the realm of the Fire Ashari. As you move through the town, silence still claims the entirety of the druids that are escorting you, with Calhoun leading the way. You can see other druids begin coming out of their abodes, glancing around and watching you as you approach. No scowls, no smiles, just a general air of indifference amongst them as they carefully watch the strange outsiders stepping through their homestead. You are then led through the village to the outskirts of this forest. Now, the forest you see, as you get closer, all the trees are long dead and petrified. There is not a leaf among them, and most of the wood you see is either gray or black from being charred, burned, or dying over time and being petrified. As you head towards the edge of the forest, Calhoun stops and turns around and just crosses his arms and stares at you. "Sh." At which point, the ground (explosion) shudders and you can see, in the distance, from within the forest almost, you see a large spray of molten rock disappear into the loose canopy of the burned trees before you, some sort of brief volcanic eruption seems to have sprayed out from the center of this cluster of dead trees. About 20 seconds later, you see a shape begin to emerge from the dead forest. Stepping out of the shadows, you see a man standing there. Human, very thick, sturdy build. No shirt, brass-colored bracers, long, billowing pants of a deep maroon color, with gold trim and designs. His skin is very darkened, whether by blood or by sun. He has a very dark complexion to him. His hair is long and jet black. You see his jaw is very square, and his cold black eyes show no emotion as he ignores the rest of you and steps toward Keyleth. (heavy footsteps) He walks right up to you. Now he's looking down at you. He's standing probably a good foot and a half taller. Once again, no emotion, no expression. "You are kin of Vilya, are you?"
Marisha: I'm... King of Vilya?
Orion: Kin.
Marisha: Oh, kin of Vilya. Yes, I am.
Matt: "I am Cerkonos, the Flamespeaker of Pyrah, the guardian of this rift. Welcome to Pyrah, my child. I must ask: why have you come?"
Marisha: I am here to complete my Aramente. I have already been to the Earth tribe.
Matt: He crosses his arms for a moment.
Marisha: My mother, Vilya, never returned to Zephra. MATT "For you to be here on your Aramente, it is proof that she did not complete hers, or at least is no longer with us. I am sorry. She was strong of heart."
Marisha: So she came through here?
Matt: "She did. She completed the trial, the challenges, and moved on to continue her Aramente about ten or so years back."
Marisha: Only ten years ago! She's been gone for close to 20.
Laura: How long was she here?
Marisha: Yes, how long was she here?
Matt: "She stayed naught but three or four days... and then her journey took her. I'd hoped wherever she was, she was safe."
Laura: Can I check him to see if he is telling the truth? 22.
Matt: He seems stern, but honest. His words, genuinely, come from a place of worry and a tinge of regret at the knowledge that he's just received. "Your mother was strong of heart and was very fierce. She could stir the heart of the mountains themselves with a word. She was very well respected amongst us."
Marisha: She was better than I am.
Matt: "I hope not." At this moment his face becomes a little darker and he says, "Korren? I assume he is well?"
Marisha: He is. As stubborn as always.
Matt: (laughs) "Well, you come with compatriots. You trust them?"
Marisha: Yes. These are my traveling companions, Vox Machina. They've proven themselves time and time again. We've been together for almost over a year now.
Matt: "Do you trust them?"
Marisha: I do. We actually have a keep now in Emon.
Matt: "Good. You'll need trust. You are here to learn, then, for your Aramente. To be tested, yes?"
Marisha: Correct.
Matt: "Then speak what you've learned to seek, what you wish to learn. What do you lack? What will be your death?"
Marisha: I have actually seen a vision of my death. From not having the will to do what is necessary, for fear of harming others, instead of protecting myself.
Matt: "Then the test begins now, without preparation. Do you also wish to join her in this task?"
Travis: Yes.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: For the first time, you see a smile across his face. Beneath it, you can see the gleaming, white, toothy grin of the man that acknowledges some sort of honor. "Then the trial shall commence. Come, within Cindergrove." He turns around and heads back into the forest. The rest of the druids have stepped back now. They've left you to your own devices.
Travis: A vision of your death?
Marisha: Part of one of the ceremonies that the Earth tribe gives is called the Alore ceremony. It's a tea that they make that is derived from a local plant that-- It's essentially a vision quest tea; it gives you visions. It's a cultural tradition, I guess. I saw two paths. One was an older woman, who was wise and hardened and brave, and she had a line of young Ashari behind her. And I ran away. I feel like she was me. And I ran away, and I went down another path. There was a tree. It was young, but strong, and it had a familiarity. As I reached out and touched it, my vision was taken through the path of the roots, and I could see the world, and I could see how everything was connected, and it took me to you all. And you were strong and fighting and proud, and then Vax yelled out, "This one is for Keyleth!" I wasn't with you. And then Grog yelled out, "This is for our princess!" And it broke away, and I realized that I was that tree, and it was my death. And as I ran to the other side, I went back to the old woman, and all of my people slowly started fading behind her, and as she looked at me, she said, "Your future is as important as it is fragile. Protect it." And she, too, faded away. I realized she was me. And when I came out of my vision, I talked with the Earth Headmaster Patisse, and she told me that if I was going to survive, I needed to have the will to do what was necessary, and the strength. And ever since the child, it's been hard. I was there for a long time at the Earth Tribe, longer than most stay on their Aramente. I couldn't get through the trial; every time I used a natural magic, every time I tried to fight, I just saw flashes of that child's eyes. I was blocked. Normally, they save the Alore ceremony for the final testament, but they actually started me with the Alore ceremony in order to help hopefully unlock my spiritual blocking that I was having. But I don't know...
Orion: So what now, Your Highness?
Marisha: Continue on and hope I don't make a fatal mistake. Hope that I can learn.
Orion: We won't let that happen.
Marisha: I hope I don't let you guys down.
Taliesin: We face this together.
Matt: (explosion) There's another shake of the ground as you see another spray of molten rock, (spraying) and you hear pattering in the distance of the forest.
Laura: We'll do this together.
Travis: We're with you to the end.
Marisha: I love you all.
Matt: You all move together into the Cindergrove forest, pushing through the hardened, blackened tree trunks to the left and the right of you. The actual floor of the forest, what appears to be piles and piles of burnt-away brush, ash, and whatever else once was considered life amongst the boughs of these trees when they grew there. Eventually, you find your way to the center of the forest, and you can see now the source of these molten rock sprays. There is a large crevasse bisecting the center of the forest, about 35 to 40 feet across and about five feet wide that is a pool of slowly roiling lava. You can see the actual air around it is heavily warped by this intense heat that's being released, and all the trees that are immediately around it are all warped and bent and have been burnt to near lack of recognition. Standing there, amongst the edge of it, is Cerkonos with his arms crossed, trained on you, Keyleth. You see occasionally a couple of bubbles (lava bubbling) in the lava behind him, and even his form is shifting from behind as the air itself ripples and changes. He looks at you and says, "Sit. Focus. Ask permission."
Marisha: I do as he says.
Matt: Go ahead and make a wisdom check. Roll a d20. Add your wisdom bonus.
Marisha: 27.
Matt: 27. As you sit down and close your eyes, you begin to focus your mind towards the center of this mountain, the heart of the fire that gives it its life, and as you all watch, a minute passes of silence before suddenly the ground shifts again and you can see the lava begin to grow more and more active, sending off little spittles of rock.
Marisha: I push it out and continue to focus.
Matt: You guys begin to see now the lava is shifting and beginning to roil and you're almost afraid it's going to start bubbling over and fill the area, and this nervousness grips your heart. Especially you, Vax, who had previously had some unhappy run-ins with molten rock. It's a genuine fear that you hadn't quite acknowledged since that moment, and you begin to feel really uncomfortable being this close to this opening. As you continue to focus, you hear Cerkonos's voice again, calm and methodical. "Ask permission." I'd like you to go ahead and roll a nature check.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: 19. (rock scraping) The ground shifts again. You can now watch the lava. Strangely enough, it's beginning to billow upward but not spill over the edges of the crevasse. It's actually slowly circling. You hear this strange sucking sound, almost like sludge is being pulled through a tube, and the lava beginning to slowly spin and spin. Cerkonos is still-- the back of him you can only imagine is either burnt to a crisp by the sheer proximity of the heat, but he is unmoved.
Marisha: I push it out and continue to focus. Just focus and meditate on asking permission.
Matt: "Keyleth of the Air Ashari. Ask permission!" Go ahead and roll one more wisdom check. d20 plus five. This time, with advantage.
Marisha: Oh my god, I rolled the same thing twice. Wisdom, five. 18.
Matt: 18. At this point, you guys notice one final shift of the ground, and the trees actually crack, and you see bits of broken branch and tree begin to fall and hit the ground around you. The air is beginning to pick up, and even though you try and cover your face the ash is still pushing through and your eyes are starting to hurt. You feel suddenly this blockage, this tension, like the mountain was fighting you, give way. And in that moment you (gasps) breathe in and open your eyes, and you all notice that the lava that has been slowly circling now (whoosh) pulls down into a vortex that disappears into the crevasse and is now a spinning whirlpool of molten rock in the crevasse, as Cerkonos still stands there. Cerkonos now steps aside and seems to vanish from your sight in but an instant, his voice lingering in the air, saying, "Now, you may enter." Looking down, you lean over and you can see this slow spiral of molten rock. It seems to disappear 15 to 20 feet below, you cannot see the bottom of it, and when you try and lean forward the heat is so intense that you have to close your eyes; you're forced to. There is a leap of faith here.
Marisha: Before I leap down, I cast Protection from Flame on myself? Or Protection from Energy, and I'm going to use fire.
Matt: Which gives you fire resistance?
Marisha: Gives me fire resistance.
Matt: Okay, good to know. And then... Keyleth?
Marisha: I close my eyes and let myself fall.
Matt: You guys watch as Keyleth steps forward and tumbles off the edge, into the vortex of molten rock. (whoosh) She's gone.
Liam: I look to my sister and grab her by the shoulder and squeeze. Then I dive in.
Laura: Oh, shit. Are we doing this?
Matt: Make a wisdom saving throw, as this is fighting a very strong fear of yours.
Ashley: Because we had the Heroes' Feast, are we not frightened?
Marisha: Oh my god, that's true. You have advantage on all of our wisdom saving throws, from the Heroes' Feast.
Liam: 16.
Matt: Okay. You shrug it off, and the thought of your sister, the thought of Keyleth, the thought of the moments of connection you guys have had, you push through that pain and you leap and swan dive into the vortex.
Orion: I cast Stoneskin. (whoosh)
Matt: You leap off. Tiberius dives in, as well. All of you guys jump in. You don't need to roll anything. It was only because of his fear he had to. The rest of you leap into this vortex.
Laura: Trinket! Jump? Come. I smack him on the butt, and I jump in after him.
Matt: And Trinket (roaring) leaps in, looking over his shoulder at you like, what have you done?!
Laura: You're brave! Very brave!
Matt: As you all individually leap through, it's interesting. There's a falling sensation, and then gravity seems to shift. You're facing downward, but you feel gravity begin to pull you to the side, and your feet find purchase on what seems like the lava spiral, but it doesn't burn. You step on it like it's hard rock, shifting slowly beneath your feet, where you have to continuously change your step, like a slowly rotating tunnel you're walking through, and you're walking downward, downward, this way. And you see light before you, very bright light, and you move towards it and move towards it, and your eyes try and focus, and you cover your vision, and eventually you step out of this tunnel and it takes a moment for your eyes to focus, and looking around you, you see a vast barren wasteland of black cinders, embers, and ash, for miles and miles around you. Thin rivers of lava cut across the plains like blood splatter.
Marisha: Oh my god, we're in the Plane of Fire.
Matt: The wind blows extremely strongly, and the atmosphere is dry and nearly unbearably hot, like the hottest desert you've ever imagined. An intolerably blazing sun is coming to rest near a distant mountain range, but your eyes catch an even more distant danger: a black, roiling cinderstorm a few miles off, red lightning flashing within its turbulent ash clouds. It looks to be moving away from you, thankfully, but you do indeed find yourself standing in the center of the Elemental Plane of Fire. A voice echoes from behind you, and you look over your shoulder, and you can see there is a circular doorway still held aloft there, shifting slowly, the vortex you stepped out of still locked in place. A voice says, "Stay together. Follow the footsteps. When you find the stone spire, there you will find your trial."
Marisha: Okay...
Orion: Just to note  when I cast Stoneskin, I didn't do the concentration. I let go of the Alter Self.
Matt: Right. That was illusion dust, so it's fine.
Laura: Well, we follow footsteps; I can track footprints.
Marisha: Okay, sure. Yeah. He might mean more metaphorically. I'm not sure. It could be either. It's hard to tell. Can I sit and take a minute to meditate, and see if I can connect with my mother and see if I can find some sort of trace? Essence?
Matt: Make another wisdom check.
Laura: And I want to use Primeval Awareness.
Marisha: I have advantage, right? I'll take that 15. Thank you. It was a one. So that's 28.
Laura: Can I use Primeval Awareness to see if there's any aberrations, celestials, elementals, fiends, undead? Any scary things? Dragons? Within six miles. No. A mile.
Matt: You sense there is a very, very faint comfort in this path, so you know it's been walked before. You're unable to glean anything beyond that, but you know you're on the right path, but your mother's been gone a long time. Surprising you've even caught wind of this type of an essence lingering.
Marisha: Any direction of which way the essence might be blowing?
Matt: It's hard to tell. Make an investigation check. You sense within the mile-- because it's not like blips on a radar, you just generally sense something nearby. In three different directions, elemental presence. Strong elemental presence. You glance up. Very strong elemental presence as all of you can see, about a quarter mile, half mile away, you see there's something drifting in the sky that is burning like a beacon.
Travis: What.
Marisha: It's a fire elemental.
Matt: What did you roll?
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16. Glancing about, trying to gather a sense of direction, you look and notice that there's no footsteps. There's no sign of any sort of stepping. The wind that blows through here, and there's a strong wind, and all of you are having to keep your eyes closed and arms up to try and block your vision from the wind. And it is a perpetual difficulty to even just breathe here. Every inhale burns the inside of your lungs.
Orion: Oh! (pop)
Matt: There you go. Tiberius has a big old bottle in his mouth now. Like a magical pacifier, and you've got your mask on, which is helping. It is still very hot here, and under all the armor you're wearing, you immediately break into a very heavy sweat. You notice though that, through your investigation and the connection with your mother and the directional sense, while there are no tracks, there are small pools of lava that progress in a pattern, one that would even resemble footsteps of a giant or some sort of large creature.
Marisha: Let's head that way. Let's follow this lava trail. Looks promising.
Travis: We're behind you.
Matt: All right. You guys begin pushing forward, blazing sun bearing down on you, heading towards the direction of these pools of lava, and they scatter a bit, but there is a general direction you are able to follow.
Laura: (quietly) There's no way to stealth here, is there? Cover ourselves in ash or something to make us less visible?
Matt: What are you doing?
Laura: Is it possible to cover us in ash and try to make us less visible to the elementals?
Matt: You can certainly try.
Marisha: Do you have Pass Without a Trace right now?
Laura: I do have Pass Without a Trace. I can cast that on us.
Matt: Okay. So you cast Pass Without a Trace on the group. As you do, the magic pools, a bunch of the ashes (whoosh) from the ground surround each of you, and there's this gentle cloud of ash that just tends to drift off your body and perpetually replace itself from the surrounding terrain. It does offer you some blanket of visual obscuring from any sort of high vantage point or distant vantage point. Up close, not so much. I'll have all of you guys roll a stealth check. With a plus ten bonus from the spell.
Liam: Cloak of Elvenkind is with advantage; would that take place here?
Matt: It would, yes.
Marisha: 25.
Travis: 17.
Taliesin: 19.
Ashley: 23.
Matt: With the disadvantage? Because you have heavy armor on.
Ashley: Let me do it again.
Travis: The feast thing? No?
Ashley: Natural 20.
Matt: But you still get the other one, which is still good.
Liam: Plus ten, 38.
Matt: (mocking) Oh, I'm such a rogue. What did you get?
Laura: 22.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: All right. As you guys continue moving forward, the wind still buffeting you to the side, you hear this (distant animal screeching). You glance in the distance and you can see, flying through the sky, a very, very large, ancient even, red-scaled draconic beast. For those who are familiar with the training, the Elemental Plane of Fire does seem to be a very prominent home to such dragons as the red. You guys notice this and stop in place and keep low. As time passes, eventually it moves past, heading towards the distant mountain range. Thank god you cast that spell. You wait a little while, until it's out of sight and beyond your vision. You keep pushing forward another 20 to 30 minutes or so through this hellish landscape. The heat is starting to get to you guys. I need everyone to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Orion: 21.
Marisha: Do I get anything for having my protection from fire?
Matt: I'll say, give you advantage for this.
Taliesin: My mask doesn't give me any advantage, does it?
Matt: Not for heat. This is the general atmospheric heat.
Taliesin: 11.
Liam: 13.
Travis: 20.
Ashley: 13.
Matt: You all are feeling the heat starting to get to you, but currently it doesn't seem to be fully affecting you; you get the feeling the longer you stay here, the more it's going to have an effect on you. However, you're still pushing through without a problem. You push on for another ten minutes or so before you come across a few more of these streams of lava, and there, about 20 to 30 feet ahead of you, you see a single stone obelisk that rises out of the ground about 15 feet up, and towards the top you see embedded in it a single, mildly glowing, what looks like a fist- or heart-sized ruby that is embedded into it like a beacon, or a small fiery lighthouse in the center of this open plain.
Laura: That's pretty.
Marisha: That looks like a stone spire to me.
Travis: Well, it's shiny.
Marisha: It's rather shiny, yeah. Let's go there.
Matt: All right. As you guys approach, stepping towards the obelisk, around the back of it, make a perception check.
Laura: 17.
Matt: All right. So. As you begin to step forward, you instinctively stop as you see figures step out from behind the spire. Three normal humans-- in fact, immediately you recognize stepping from behind it is Cerkonos and two of the other druids that you had accompany you into this. Cerkonos walks towards you, arms still crossed, in front of the spire. You see his wind being blown to the side from the sheer force of the heated winds that are blowing through this barren landscape. He looks about the rest of you. "You've done well. But there is not much time." And he looks off to the side, and you can now see the cinderstorm that was once heading away has changed course and is now making its way in the direction of you and the spire. You can see it's probably about a half a mile to a quarter mile off, and you can see the red arcing bolts of energy floating through it, and it's starting to darken the landscape beneath it. "Show me what it is you've learned." And with that, the form of all three druids suddenly burst into flames and grow in size, Cerkonos becoming astronomically large for even the elementals you've encountered. Everybody roll initiative. (groaning)
Marisha: Oh, Jesus ballsacks. All right.
Taliesin: Oh, sweet baby Jesus.
Liam: Oh, Jesus Ballsacks, who art in heaven.
Laura: No. Don't.
Taliesin: Does this make you feel better?
Laura: Oh no.
Marisha: (giggling) Yes.
Taliesin: God damn it, Wheaton.
Marisha: God damn it, Wheaton. Here.
Orion: Do you need me to light that on fire again for you?
Taliesin: No, it's going.
Marisha: Got to get my dice in order.
Travis: Oh my god, they're on fire. We have walls!
Matt: Broken, ruined walls that appear from the landscape. I need... some initiative scores from you guys.
Laura: Jeez Louise.
Matt: All right. So we have 25 to 20?
Laura: Oh no.
Taliesin: Crickets. Crickets have 25 to 20.
Matt: 20 to 15?
Liam: 19.
Orion: 15.
Laura: 18.
Matt: You had 19? All right.
Laura: It's addictive, isn't it?
Liam: Yeah, it's fun to say. Thanks, bud.
Matt: 15 to ten?
Orion: 15.
Matt: All right, 15, Tiberius. All right. Ten to five?
Ashley: Nine.
Taliesin: Nine.
Taliesin: (laughs) Hi!
Ashley: Hi.
Marisha: Five!
Matt: All right, who's left?
Marisha: Five.
Travis: I rolled a one.
Marisha: He rolled a one, too.
Taliesin: We're sitting here like, is this a Cirque du Soleil thing?
Marisha: We're like, oh cool! It's fire.
Taliesin: Burning Man!
Marisha: Burning Man!
Matt: Top of the round, Cerkonos in his oversized fire elemental form darts forward towards the center (flame sounds). An unnatural pace of movement as the flames seem to flicker and dart and reform at the foot of the rest of the group, at which point he brings his arms in and (roaring flame) releases a torrent of flame that bursts out in a 20-foot radius from him, catching all of you.
Taliesin: We have immunity to what, now?
Travis: She has immunity.
Matt: Poison, disease, and fright. All right. I need everyone to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Orion: Hey! Internet! There's my natural one.
Laura: No!
Ashley: No!
Orion: Suck it. It happens.
Taliesin: That's better.
Liam: Stealth. Dexterity. Damn it.
Matt: All right. So. Percy, what did you roll?
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: 15.
Marisha: 23. No, 24.
Matt: Natural one.
Liam: 27.
Laura: 16.
Ashley: 18.
Travis: 16.
Matt: All right. I need everyone who rolled a 16 or higher, raise your hand. Okay, so only Percy and Tiberius. All of you guys take 13 points of fire damage.
Ashley: Who rolled high?
Matt: Yep, who rolled high. 13 points of fire damage from the blast outward. Tiberius and Percy, you both take 25 points of fire damage--
Orion: (laughs) Resist. 13 for me, anyway.
Marisha: I take half, right?
Matt: You take half, because of fire resistance.
Taliesin: How many points?
Matt: 25, and you are both set on fire as all of a sudden your clothing and armor (whoosh) burst into flames, and you are considered burning.
Travis: Burning?
Laura: How do you put yourself out?
Matt: You take an action to put yourself out.
Liam: Stop, drop and roll, man.
Matt: You have to basically take your action, your whole turn, trying to put the flames out. That ends Cerkonos's turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Keyleth's right up against that elemental in front of her, right? I'm going to run right behind her--
Laura: You're on fire.
Liam: No, I'm not. I made the save. I click my boots together and I run up--
Matt: Did you roll for Trinket, as well? Go ahead and roll Trinket's roll. So you move up over here?
Laura: That's good. Trinket definitely saved that.
Matt: What did Trinket make? You're behind?
Liam: Right, so I'm going to swing up underneath Keyleth's arm, and then I've already clicked the boots, so dagger, dagger... dagger.
Taliesin: I like the comma there. The comma really brought it together.
Matt: Trinket takes 13 points of fire damage.
Liam: So 22 on the first.
Matt: 22 on the first? That hits.
Liam: That hits. All right, there's the sneak attack right there. This is the Keen Dagger. Good, there's ten, plus-- did he make an attack already? He did, right? Damn it. Ten. 13, 14, 20. 20 points of damage on the first strike. Second strike probably misses. 13.
Matt: 13 misses, yep.
Liam: Third strike is a 19.
Matt: 19 does hit.
Liam: Does hit. All right, and that is nine.
Matt: Nine damage. Okay. As you (whoosh) swing up, you hit him with the first dagger, strike and miss with the second, and the third one you slam up into its flaming torso, finding some sort of physical purchase and slicing through. However, with each hit, the fire that bursts back burns you. The first hit you take three points of fire damage, second hit deals six points of fire damage to you from hitting it with a melee attack.
Liam: So three plus six, total of nine?
Matt: Total of nine points of fire damage. That ends your turn, Vax. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. Can I back away from him, or am I going to get hit?
Matt: No, he does not have that far of a reach.
Laura: Okay, so I back up. I'm going to back up against the wall so I can duck behind it if I need to, and I call Trinket with me, for sure. And then I am going to lightning arrow him? I'm going to lightning arrow-- no. Jesus. I Hunter's Mark him!
Matt: There you go. He is Hunter's Marked.
Laura: Now he is surrounded by all of our friends?
Matt: Correct. He has three of them currently surrounding him.
Laura: Balls. I'm going to have to Hunter's Mark one of the little ones, then, and aim for one of them. And I'm going to Hail of Thorns them. The one closest to me.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: That's a 25!
Matt: 25 hits.
Laura: All right. Why do I already forget what I'm doing. Normal attack. Okay. 17 for the normal attack--
Matt: Plus Hunter's Mark damage?
Laura: Plus Hunter's Mark damage. Six for Hunter's Mark, and then I get 3d10 for the Hail of Thorns.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: Okay, that's a ten, that's a ten, this is a ten. Balls. Ten, 12, 13. 13.
Matt: 13 points of damage. All right, so as you come around the wall, release your arrow. As it goes through the air, you can see the wood splinter into a bunch of thorny wood protrusions. It slams into the elemental, which then bursts into the side, you can see its form (whoosh), open up from the inside, and then (contracting sound), reform into an elemental, as the rest of the thorns shoot out, (thorns impacting) hitting the side of the stone pillar to the side of it.
Laura: And just one more regular attack.
Matt: Okay. So it's a bonus action to do the spell, and then it's first attack hit, boom, second attack.
Laura: 20! (cheering)
Marisha: Hot diggity.
Matt: So dice times two.
Laura: Oh, that's it? I know.
Matt: So two damage plus your bonus, plus your Hunter's Mark. Unless Hunter's Mark's once per turn; let me check.
Laura: 14 for the second hit. That's a lame critical.
Liam: No, it was fantastic.
Matt: 14 total? All righty. That ends your turn. Tiberius, you're up. Beginning of your turn, you take five points-- actually, no. You take eight points of fire damage, reduced by four, for being on fire.
Orion: And I'm like, oh, that tickles. I don't expend an action to do that, and instead I look at the main dude and I'm going to be like, here's something she taught me. (babbling) And I use a scroll, and I'm going to cast Blight (magic sound) on him.
Marisha: I did teach him that.
Orion: I have two Blight scrolls. I'm reading super fast. (babbling)
Travis: Like a cattle auctioneer. (imitates auctioneer)
Orion: It's okay. I have something else that's effective.
Matt: All right. So you took your four damage from the fire. You pull out the scroll. First, you need to roll to see if you can do the scroll properly, so go ahead and roll a d20, and add your plus five.
Orion: It's 22.
Matt: 22, yeah. Not a problem. You take the spell, you pull out the scroll, read it, and the scroll itself you can see is starting to burn on its own just being pulled out in the heated atmosphere that is this Plane of Fire, but before it can burn entirely, you finish the spell. It disappears in a flash of light and ash, and then Blight goes and takes effect.
Orion: As I'm going to do that, I'm going to heighten it, and spend three sorcerer points so it gives him disadvantage--
Matt: I will say, because the Blight spell is a scroll, you cannot use metamagic. It's magic from your bloodstream is what gives you that ability.
Orion: Fair enough.
Matt: What's the DC on that?
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17. Constitution. Rolled a 16, so no. Does not make it. (cheering)
Orion: So what I can do, is I can-- if I can't heighten an initial spell, I can power a spell that's already been cast with my sorcerer's point, right? You can empower a spell?
Matt: True, but still spells that you've cast from yourself. The metamagic is how you enhance it as you cast it out of yourself. If it's from a scroll--
Orion: (counting) 25 damage.
Matt: 25 damage. Good to know. Boom. You can see as you finish the scroll reading, some of the flames seem to die down and part of its physical form has a hard time keeping itself in one solid place. Parts of it flicker, and then it (growls) angrily pushes through.
Orion: Where am I relative to everybody else?
Matt: You're right here.
Orion: Okay, cool. What I will do, because I can do this, is I will quicken spell, and I will spend two sorcery points to Misty Step behind where Vex is. (whoosh)
Matt: Over there?
Orion: Yep. And in view of everybody else, where I can still cast stuff.
Matt: There? Okay. Cool.
Orion: That's my turn.
Matt: All righty. That brings us to these guys' turn. (flames) Right there. Going to move up towards Percy. Coming around the side, is going to make two touch attacks against you, Percy. That is a 13.
Taliesin: That misses.
Matt: And that is a 25, with a 19.
Taliesin: 25 definitely hits.
Matt: Definitely hits, okay. You take 13 points of fire damage, and you are still on fire, so it does not reignite you. You are just on fire in general. That ends its turn. The other one, however, rushes up and it's doing a touch attack against Keyleth and Vex. Vax, I mean. Sorry. Versus Keyleth, that is a 16 versus armor class?
Marisha: Miss. 17. (whoosh)
Matt: That's going to be a 20 versus you.
Liam: That hits.
Matt: All right. Vax, you take 12 points of fire damage, and your cloak bursts into flame.
Liam: Oh, fuck a duck!
Matt: As you're like, shit, now the fire's crawling up around you. That brings us to Percy and Pike's turn.
Marisha: Oh my god. (laughs) Stop, drop and roll!
Matt: Percy, what are you doing?
Taliesin: I am on fire, aren't I?
Matt: Beginning of your turn, you take ten points of fire damage.
Taliesin: God damn it. And it takes an entire action to put myself out? Can I run? He's going to get an attack of opportunity on me.
Matt: He would get an attack of opportunity on you if you ran, yeah, but also ranged attacks at point blank are at disadvantage, too.
Taliesin: Yeah, I know. Fuck it. I'm going to run first, and then put myself out.
Matt: Okay. So you're running which way?
Taliesin: I'm running towards the wall. I'm getting some distance.
Matt: Over here?
Taliesin: Yeah, and I'm doing a "stop, drop and roll" on my way to put myself out.
Marisha: Fire safety, kids.
Matt: Okay. The elemental reaches and strikes. That is a 21.
Taliesin: Damn it! Okay.
Matt: You take 12 points of fire damage as it just swings out and hits you in the back. You feel the flames now licking beneath your armor. You're sweating profusely and you feel the burn marks as the skin begins to boil and crack beneath the armor.
Taliesin: And you've moved me as far in that direction as I can go, right?
Matt: That would be over here.
Taliesin: Yeah. I'm also going to spend my bonus action for second wind, because fuck. So that's 19 points that I gain back.
Matt: That ends Percy's turn. Pike, what you got?
Orion: Yes, Pike!
Ashley: Okay. So I have the Frost Brand Sword, so I'm resistant to fire damage if I'm holding it.
Matt: Correct. You have half damage from fire.
Ashley: But I would like to use a Guiding Bolt, because it's a little bit more damage.
Matt: All righty. Go ahead and roll your Guiding Bolt attack. Against which guy? These three here are visible.
Ashley: Okay. Let's do the guy right there. The big guy.
Matt: Big guy right there? Okay. Go ahead and roll your attack. You add your spell attack modifier to it.
Ashley: That's only 15. 15?
Matt: All right. 15 does hit, yes.
Ashley: Yay! Okay.
Matt: That's 4d6 radiant damage, and the next attack against it has advantage.
Laura: Nice!
Ashley: 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage, all righty. Good to know. Well done. That's your turn. Do you wish to move anywhere, or are you going to stay where you are, Pike?
Ashley: You know what, so sorry. I was casting that at a three.
Matt: As a level 3? So add an additional 2d6 to it.
Ashley: Yeah, sorry. 18.
Liam: Total.
Laura: 18 total.
Ashley: 18 total.
Matt: Cool, gotcha. All right. You want to move or you going to stay where you are, Pike?
Ashley: Where am I at?
Matt: You're right here.
Ashley: You know what, I'm going to back up. Yeah. Okay. All right.
Matt: All right. Keyleth, you're up. Grog, you're on deck.
Marisha: I look at Cerkonos, and give him a nod, and I say, okay. And I concentrate, and my entire form goes water, and I turn into a water elemental.
Liam: Skadoosh.
Travis: Badass.
Marisha: And then I immediately rush into Cerkonos's space, and do Whelm.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So he has to do a DC 15 saving throw.
Matt: All righty. Dex?
Marisha: Strength.
Taliesin: We all look great and lose five pounds.
Liam: Everybody's glistening.
Travis: Our pores look better than they ever have.
Marisha: Sweat it out, guys.
Matt: He rolls a three. (cheering)
Marisha: So he does 2d8 plus four bludgeoning damage. I'm also water elemental, so I believe he has water susceptibility, correct?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: I don't know what that does, but he's got it. So if it's a large or smaller creature, it is also grappled.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: 2d8. Not bad. 12 plus four. 16.
Matt: 16 damage, nice. And he is grappled, currently, as you are swirling around him as this vortex of water. As you hit for the attack, you do take six points of fire damage from being in the midst of that flame.
Marisha: Does he take extra damage because I'm water? Because he has water susceptibility?
Matt: Water susceptibility, essentially, he takes one point of cold damage on top of that, and if he tries to moves away from you, he moves slower.
Orion: You're swirling water around him right now?
Marisha: It's water versus fire elemental right now.
Matt: However, because it is a fire elemental, it is immune to being grappled. Because it is just fire, you can't really grab around it.
Marisha: Well, I just football tackle him. (impact) Water right through his form. Steam rolls off of me. (hiss)
Matt: And it is uncomfortable being in this plane as a water elemental, but you're pushing through it.
Marisha: I take how much? Four damage?
Matt: That was six damage. Which should be halved, because you have the resistance still on you, so that's three damage to you... You also entered its space, so you also are on fire. Strangely enough, you are a water elemental that's caught fire.
Liam: Water.
Matt: It's strange. The water is steaming, and the flames are having a hard time rolling. I'm going to say... I'm going to say you can't. That's stupid. A water elemental is not going to catch fire. That makes no sense. I'm going to say, for the sake of this battle, you are immune to being set on fire. Fucking water elemental. All right, that ends your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I look over, and I see as Vax starts slashing into the fire beastie, I know this is going to hurt, and I go into a rage. And I know I'm going to burn, but I take my three giant swings with my battleaxe.
Matt: So you're going into full frenzied rage.
Travis: Frenzied rage. Frenzied rage, if you don't mind.
Matt: Certainly. Three strikes at him.
Travis: 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: 19.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: And 24.
Matt: Hits. Damage on all three.
Travis: 11.
Matt: 11 damage.
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19 damage.
Travis: And 12.
Matt: 12 damage. Great. You strike in, axe swinging through. It's interesting, because you're not hitting physical matter, your axe just swings through, but you can feel the resistance as it's carving through whatever magical essence is holding this elemental together. Each hit, though, the flames shoot out of where you wound it and blast across your arm and your hand, burning you. You take ten damage from the first strike, eight damage-- and because this is magical, it's not reduced. So that's 18, plus another ten. 28 total points of fire damage from striking at it. All right. That ends your turn, Grog. Up to the top of the round, that's now come to Cerkonos. Cerkonos is going to stay right where it is. It's going to go ahead and make three melee touch attacks. It's going to be... probably going to be one against each of you, actually. So against Keyleth, that is a 24 to hit?
Marisha: Hits.
Matt: So that would be 12 points of fire damage, reduced to six because of your spell, but you're not ignited.
Liam: Against everyone near him?
Matt: It's doing an attack against each of you. It's just reaching out. Cocked dice. That is 18 against you?
Liam: Hell yeah, that hits.
Matt: All right. You take nine points of fire damage. And against Grog, that is a natural 20. (groaning)
Travis: Was that a crit?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: There goes that beard.
Travis: Oh, shut up! Don't tell him that!
Matt: 22 points of fire damage, and you are set on fire.
Travis: The beard is okay, right?
Matt: Currently, but the flames are licking up the sides of your shoulders.
Travis: Oh, come on, man. Have you no mercy?
Liam: I made a stupid pun, and you tripped me and made me eat shit. Enjoy.
Matt: Cerkonos is going to stay there, just taking you all on at once. That brings us to Vax. To start your turn, you take nine points of fire damage.
Liam: Excellent. That's excellent news. I'm going to use my bonus action to disengage. I've got three things I can do here because of the Boots of Haste, so use bonus action to disengage. I'm going to use one action to run like fuck over to that wall and jump to the side.
Matt: It's not an attack. You have a bonus action and an action. So you can disengage and then move, then you have your action.
Liam: But I can still move my normal speed, right? All right, so I'm going to run as far as I can towards that wall.
Laura: The other wall.
Liam: No, that wall.
Matt: Four, five, six. That'll put you right there.
Liam: And then I'm going to roll on the ground.
Matt: Okay, you use your action to put out the flame.
Liam: (choked) It's okay, right? The cloak's okay?
Matt: The cloak's fine. It's a little burnt, but it's okay. The flames are gone now. You're no longer taking fire damage.
Liam: That's my woobie.
Matt: That's your turn. Vex, you're up.
Taliesin: Hey, now. Not cool.
Laura: All right, I'm going to lightning arrow? Is that going to do anything to fire? I'm going to lightning arrow the one that I've Hunter's Marked.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: So that is 19?
Matt: All righty, so that one right there? All right, that hits.
Laura: Okay. So. Do I do my regular attack on that, as well, or do I just do the damage from the lightning?
Matt: No. The arrow is no longer there; it is now just a bolt of lightning halfway through the arc.
Laura: Okay. Correct. 4d8.
Matt: 4d8 damage.
Laura: This is so nerve-wracking. (counting) 25 on the lightning arrow.
Matt: All righty. Grog, go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: 18.
Matt: 18?
Travis: Do I get advantage on that because I'm raging?
Matt: No. What's your spell DC?
Laura: Oh, 14.
Matt: Okay, yeah. So he makes the save, go ahead and roll 2d8, and he takes half damage.
Laura: Oh. I didn't realize you were there, Grog. I'm sorry, I couldn't see.
Matt: Within ten feet of it. Every creature within ten feet of it.
Laura: I didn't think that was ten feet. I'm sorry. Oh good, that's nothing. Two!
Matt: You take two points of lightning damage as (flicker) part of the lightning arrow arcs off and tickles your shoulder. You barely even notice, you're raged out and focused on him.
Travis: Yeah, with the being on fire, it's really not that bad.
Laura: I do another attack out of the Blood-Seeking Bow. (singing) That's a 27! (laughter)
Ashley: (singing) 27!
Laura: (singing) 27!
Matt: Did Hunter's Mark damage on the last one, right?
Laura: Yes. 16 with Blood-Seeking.
Matt: Nice. So it's now bleeding.
Laura: He's a bleeding fireball.
Matt: Interesting thing about this. I will consider bleeding as part of its conditional immunities, because it does not have blood. It is a flaming elemental.
Laura: Waste.
Matt: But it still took damage. You can see now, the flames of this are starting to flicker a little bit; it's having hard time keeping itself cohesive.
Travis: On the smaller one?
Matt: Yeah. That ends your turn, do you want to move anywhere, you staying there?
Laura: I'm going to go around the back of the wall with Trinket. Oh no, I knocked it down on myself! Can I get around to the other side?
Matt: That's as far as you can get with your run right now, unfortunately.
Laura: Okay, that's cool.
Matt: Okay, that ends your turn. Tiberius, you're up.
Marisha: Don't worry about hurting me, if that's what you're afraid of.
Orion: Okay. I'm going to scooch my booch closer to the wall to get quarter cover. I think that'll put me in about where I need to be to see all three of them.
Liam: Is that Draconic?
Travis: Scooch my booch.
Laura: Scooch my booch.
Orion: Scooch my boocher. Two, three, four. Okay, so I'm going to cast-- two, four, six-- Glacial Blast (hiss) in the arc to hit all three of them.
Matt: Hit all three of these guys? What's the arc on that one?
Orion: 30 feet?
Matt: 30-foot arc? Okay, you can get these two.
Orion: If I have to move, can I move closer to hit?
Matt: You'd have to get into melee with this to hit all three, which would be disadvantage if it's an attack roll.
Travis: Just take the two.
Orion: I'll take the two. I'll do that. And then, I'm going to spend three points to heighten the spell and that gives them disadvantage on their saving throw, so I'm going to do that right now.
Matt: So what's the saving throw? Dex?
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17 dex. Okay, go ahead and roll damage, and it's half damage for that, right?
Orion: Yeah, if they save.
Taliesin: That's pretty good.
Orion: Ten, 18, what's that? 30, 35. 35.
Matt: 35. Okay. Keyleth and Grog also make dexterity saving throws.
Travis: Fair.
Matt: Two. Fails on Cerkonos.
Marisha: 17.
Travis: 20.
Matt: That is a natural 17 for the fire elemental, though; it takes half damage there. So what's the total on there?
Orion: And that was at disadvantage?
Matt: Oh, disadvantage. Natural 20. Sorry. Well, it still takes half damage. This elemental, you notice its form suddenly (cracking) freeze into ice, and then shatter. (cheering)
Matt: Below it, you see standing in its place the druid that was once there, (thud) drops down on its knees, and looks up at you with a nod.
Laura: We're coming back.
Matt: What'd you roll? With disadvantage on the saving throw, guys, by the way.
Marisha: Disadvantage?
Travis: That's worse. 14.
Marisha: Four.
Matt: Both of you guys take 35 points of cold damage. Cerkonos also takes 35 points of cold damage. All right, cool. That's Tiberius's turn. This druid is going to go ahead and is going to transform into an eagle and head back in the path from where you guys came from. This guy is going to move in there and is going to make two strikes against you, Pike. Natural 20.
Laura: No!
Matt: And that's a natural 18, plus six is 24. Welcome back. (laughter)
Ashley: My armor class is 20, so they both hit me.
Matt: That's a natural 18 plus six on top of that.
Ashley: Point taken!
Matt: Seven times two, that's 14 plus three. Take 17 points of fire damage from the first strike. The second one does... so 14 from both, so total of 28 points of fire damage, and you are ignited. All of a sudden, your armor heats up and you see flames begin to lick up through the different sections of the plate, and the fire elemental is harrying right on top of you.
Taliesin: (singing) Oh, that girl is smoking on fire--
Ashley: (singing) This girl is on fire! (laughter)
Matt: And with that, it's Percy and Pike's turn.
Taliesin: You first or me first?
Matt: Well, Percy, at the top of your turn-- actually, you both take--
Taliesin: No, I put myself out.
Matt: That's right!
Taliesin: Take that soda can pop-topper off me.
Ashley: Oh no, wait! My Frost Brand sword. I'm resistant to fire damage!
Matt: Take 14 points of fire damage. You also take what would be four is now two, so a total of 16 points of fire damage.
Ashley: 16 points, okay. Wait, so what was it?
Travis: 16.
Laura: 16.
Liam: Reality is malleable here.
Matt: As the actual protective energies of the Frost Brand gives this layer of cold across your armor and reduces the impact. You're still on fire, but the fire is doing less damage to you physically as the cold is counteracting it. Cool. Percy, what are you doing?
Taliesin: Okay, I'm pulling out the Pepperbox and I'm taking an ice shot at the little one attacking Pike. And I'm going to take a sharpshooter-- that's the wrong dice to roll. I'm going to take a sharpshooter bonus for it, so that's a miss. That's a nine. Actually, no. Shit. God damn it, that's a misfire. I'm going to spend an action to fix that.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll the check on that, if you could.
Taliesin: Oh, what is the check on that? That's a DC 12. Eight, nine, ten, 11, 12. I hit my check.
Matt: You just barely make it. The gun is not broken. As you spin, you go to fire, and something about the trajectory of the bullet is off, and as you release the trigger, all of a sudden the whole front of the barrel (cracking) encases in ice, and you're like, crap! And you have to chisel the ice off.
Taliesin: Fire again.
Matt: Well, it takes an action to try and--
Taliesin: No, I looked. It takes an attack.
Matt: Then yes, you're able to do that.
Taliesin: If it goes, then I'm--
Matt: Then it takes an action to fix it, that's what it is. Yeah, it's an action to fix a broken gun.
Taliesin: Yeah. Action to fix a broken gun. Let's try it again without the sharpshooter bonus. Better! 20 to hit.
Matt: 20 does hit, yes.
Taliesin: And I don't get the bonus on that because I suck. Seven points of damage.
Matt: Seven points of damage.
Taliesin: Rolled a one.
Matt: Sometimes it works out that way. All right.
Taliesin: And I'm going to back off.
Matt: Cannot use your attack again until an action. It is an action.
Taliesin: It is an action? I thought it was an action to--
Matt: It's an action to repair, and then if it breaks, you cannot use it until you're out of combat.
Marisha: Did it break?
Taliesin: It did break.
Matt: It didn't break. It jammed, and then it managed to alleviate that.
Taliesin: I would have switched guns, anyways, but okay, next time. For some reason I thought it was an attack action.
Matt: No worries. That's the downside of the firearms. So no damage, you don't get your second attack off as you take your full action.
Taliesin: To fix it, okay. That's fine; it was shitty damage anyways. Hey, I get to keep the bullet.
Matt: Cool, so that ends Percy's turn. Pike, what are you doing?
Ashley: Percy, where are you at, in terms of hit points?
Taliesin: I'm fine. I'm at half. I'm at 56.
Laura: He's at 12.
Ashley: I know. He's at 12. Can I get over to Vax?
Matt: You'll not be able to get to him.
Laura: Sprinter's Boots?
Matt: You could with your Sprinter's Boots, yeah.
Ashley: Sprinter's Boots.
Matt: All right, so (whoosh). You get by there. The fire elemental does get an attack of opportunity on you. And that is a 17 to hit. Armor class is 20, so as it reaches towards you it just streaks off your armor (impact). The flames heat one of the plates below but you manage to pull out before it can actually find any real aggressive attack on you.
Taliesin: That was full road runner.
Ashley: 29.
Matt: So as Pike rushes up to you and touches you on the side of your waist, as you feel all your wounds and burn marks tend to subside and heal up instantaneously.
Liam: Oh yeah! That's good.
Ashley: That's a little bit of something.
Liam: Yeah! I'll take it.
Matt: That ends Pike's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: All right, I'm going to do a multiattack right on Cerkonos. So I'm going to do two (impacts) with my big wavy arms.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Marisha: So plus seven to hit. So first one. 18, so that's 20. Okay. And second one. That's not as good. 19? Sorry, 18?
Matt: 18 also hits.
Marisha: Okay. Cool. So that's 2d8 plus four bludgeoning damage, twice. So that's five, six. So that's ten. Nine, plus another 13. 23 points of damage.
Matt: 23 points of damage. Your attacks in this form are considered magical, correct? So yeah, it doesn't do half damage. It's full damage, because normally it would have resistance to bludgeoning. But because of your magical weapons, because you're a crazy druid, full 23 points of damage. As all of a sudden the elemental form starts slamming him with these giant tidal wave-like fists--
Marisha: Oh, plus an extra two because I'm a water elemental.
Matt: There you go. (wham, wham) You can see, steam is starting to billow off of Cerkonos's elemental form. They're both in this crazy tidal, epic elemental throw down. This is WWE style.
Orion: Oh no. It must be stopped!
Matt: Are you going to stay where you are?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm on his ass.
Matt: All right. That ends Keyleth's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Can I move around the backside of him without him getting an attack of opportunity if I stay just as close as I am now? No?
Matt: As soon as you dart off to the side, he'll get a strike on you.
Travis: Son of a bitch!
Taliesin: Can he do a one-space move without an attack?
Travis: Just because I'm cooking-- fuck it, I'll keep swinging. I'm in a frenzied rage.
Matt: Go for it. Three strikes against Cerkonos.
Travis: That's a 20.
Liam: Natural 20?
Travis: Oh no, a total of 20. 19.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: And a 22.
Matt: Hits. All three hit.
Travis: 11. 17. And a 19.
Matt: 19. (whacks) Once again, streaking into him, mouth open (roars). The foam that would normally be gathering at the side of your mouth though is just this dried crust on the side, because there's just all this heat in the air. With each yell, as you close your mouth, you can taste the ash that is coalesced on the back of your tongue, it's this terrible smell. It would bother you if you weren't so focused in your furied rage in this vicinity. However, you do take three points of fire damage, two points of fire damage, and ten. So a total of 15 points of fire damage from striking at it with your axe as the fire blows back onto you. Also, at the top of your turn because you were on fire, you took another eight points of fire damage from the flames burning and licking up your shoulders. You smell the scent of burning hair reach your nostrils.
Travis: It's because we're family.
Liam: It could be your pubes! Don't jump to conclusions!
Matt: That ends Grog's turn. Hold on, that your turn? At the top, Cerkonos is going to angrily now go into three more attacks. One against Keyleth, two against Grog, because Grog's starting to look a little rough, and the flames are affecting him more than it's affecting Keyleth. He turns to slam you twice. That is a 26?
Travis: That'll hit.
Matt: Nine plus eight. That is a 17?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: 19 plus eight, that's a 27.
Travis: Oh, I don't know if that hits or not.
Matt: I'm sorry, that one's against Keyleth. So one hits you, one misses, and the last one was 27 versus you.
Marisha: Yeah...
Matt: So you take 11 points of fire damage from the strike. You take ten points, reduce that to five. So you take five points of fire damage. That is Cerkonos's turn. That brings us to Vax.
Liam: Okay, so Cerkonos is still busy with Keyleth, so I'm going to take a split second to inhale, exhale, and then (dagger noises) right from where I am. So 18.
Matt: 18 hits.
Liam: 14.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Natural 20 for the third. Do I get to pick which one is the--? Okay, so the first one hit, which is sneak attack, so that is four plus seven is 11, plus-- 14, 17, 23, 25-- 31 for the first hit. Second one, which was a hit, is-- which part gets doubled?
Matt: Just the dice roll.
Liam: The dice roll. Four plus six is ten.
Matt: All right, so. (whoosh, whoosh, whoosh) You're launching the daggers out and it's difficult to focus on, because there is currently this swirl of water and flame that is going around. As your third dagger hits you can see the elemental form shrinks, and the water elemental that is Keyleth absorbs what you see now, Cerkonos in human druid form now, floating aloft in the center of Keyleth as an elemental. (static) Take that, microphone. Sorry, guys. (impact) And is that your turn?
Liam: That's it. Yeah, that's it. I'll back up against the side of that wall that's right there. But that's it.
Matt: Okay. Vex.
Laura: I come around the side of the wall. Hi! Oh hey. And I shoot at the other guy.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Laura: Is he within ten feet of anything?
Matt: No.
Laura: Then I'm going to Lightning Arrow-- I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All right. Hunter's Mark is a bonus action.
Laura: Yes, so I'm going to Hail of Thorns him.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Yes. 15?
Matt: 15? That does hit.
Laura: Yes! 17, plus four, so that's 21, plus 3d10. 14.
Matt: All righty. As you come around the corner, releasing the arrow, it slams into the side of the elemental, bursts into it, you can see the splinters shooting throughout its form, sending out all these little fiery sparks as all the thorns burst into flames from the contact with the body, which then diminish and burn away into ash in the middle of the air.
Laura: Take two! That one doesn't hit, though.
Matt: What was that?
Laura: 13.
Matt: 13 just hits. (cheering)
Matt: Don't have huge AC.
Laura: Yay! 16. 20.
Matt: 20, all right. (impact) The arrow hits and then bursts and gets caught into its form before it eventually gets expelled, it is just this tiny flaming shaft. That ends your turn? All righty. That brings us to Tiberius. At the top of your turn, you take ten points of fire damage, reduced to five, from the flames that are burning on your body.
Orion: And I turn to the fire elemental because they're coherent, right? I'm like, do you really need me to do this? I ask it the question.
Matt: Currently, the elemental is just in the middle of-- it's just an amorphous flaming mass.
Laura: He's like one of those creatures at a gas station. (laughter)
Orion: Fine, so I go, Glacial Blast! With my finger. (hiss)
Matt: Okay. For its saving throw, it rolls an 18. What's your DC on that?
Orion: 17.
Matt: So half damage. Go ahead and roll for the targeted blast.
Orion: 14.
Marisha: 14, 17, 18, plus six, so it's 24, plus another eight, so that's 32.
Orion: 32.
Matt: 32 points of ice damage reduced to half, because of that, so it takes 16 points of ice damage and would be grappled, if it wasn't immune to being grappled. As the ice encases around it, its fire form flicks out from underneath the ice and keeps itself fluid and moving.
Orion: And I will use two sorcery points to quicken a spell and use my cantrip Control Flame to (whoosh) start juggling the flame that I was caught on fire with. (laughter)
Matt: And with that, Tiberius, you gather the fire off of your body-- I'll say you are no longer on fire, as your Control Flame has pulled the fire from your torso and you're now just tossing it around in the middle of the Elemental Plane of Fire.
Orion: Would somebody end this, please?
Matt: The elemental's turn. It turns angrily towards you, trying to shoot it constantly with the ice blast. Rushes forward (whoosh) with immediate speed, darts up in front of you, attacking twice. That is a two, so that misses. That's a total of eight. And 19?
Taliesin: It's a what?
Matt: 19.
Taliesin: It's a 19? I'm going to spend a grit point and say that doesn't hit.
Matt: Gunslinger's dodge?
Taliesin: Yep, I'm going to Gunslinger's dodge.
Matt: All righty. As it swipes out for you, you spend your grit point to dodge out of the way, slow-mo. The giant flaming hand streaks past you. What bit of scruff you had on your chin is now slowly withered away and burned into evaporated air. It's pretty rough. That ends its turn. Percy and Pike? You immediately have your action.
Taliesin: I'm going to unload into its body. I know I'm at a disadvantage because I'm that close, but I'm just going to unload into its body.
Matt: So three attacks at disadvantage.
Taliesin: Three attacks with disadvantage.
Marisha: Was that a 20?
Taliesin: That was a 17, but it's okay, because I have disadvantage, so that's a 21.
Matt: Hits. Second one?
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: Hits. Third one?
Taliesin: 26.
Orion: (gunshots)
Liam: (gunshots)
Matt: So three shots against it.
Taliesin: 18, plus 23, 26. 35 points of damage.
Matt: 35 points of damage. (gunshots) As each one blasts through, the elemental form shimmers, and you can see now the druid left there in its space. Lands on its knees, looks up at you, and gives you a quick little smile. At this point, you guys hear (roaring flames) this rolling, crumbling, angry, fiery sound as you glance over and you can see the cinderstorm is nearly upon you at this point in time. At this juncture, you guys can continue to fight if you want to, but you can see Cerkonos is looking over and looks at the rest of you. "We should go. Now."
Travis: Yes.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Did you complete the mission?
Marisha: I slowly release him down from my water elemental form.
Matt: As he touches down, he immediately (poof) turns into a giant eagle, swoops and grabs you, Pike, (gripping sound) and heads towards the exit.
Laura: I guess it's time to go.
Orion: I think we should go, yes.
Marisha: I drop my-- no. I'm going to keep in my water elemental form.
Matt: Okay. What's the speed on it?
Marisha: 30.
Matt: Okay, so same speed as you normally would be. All right, so. As you guys begin charging back in the direction you came from, dodging the lava pools as you come, the cinderstorm begins rolling in and you can see it's a full like-- you know that scene in the Mad Max movie? Looks like that, and it's pouring into the path you guys are running. You get about halfway there, about ten minutes into this run before the heat grows so intense that you can feel it now burning at the side of the face.
Marisha: Okay, I lied. I drop my elemental form. I go ahead and I'm going to cast Gust of Wind ahead of us to try and make a tunnel and try and air this heat down.
Matt: Okay. That helps a little bit and gives you guys a little more leeway as you're pushing forward. The storm blows over you entirely, and darkness comes in. It feels like you're in the center of a cloud. There is light, somewhat, but your vision is obscured about five feet ahead of you and you think you're heading in the right direction towards the portal. You can see roughly, as Cerkonos is carrying you through the storm, I need everyone to go ahead and make a constitution check.
Ashley: Could I do a Mass Cure Wounds before I go? Because I was going to do that right last minute.
Matt: You currently are being held aloft, and you can't see the rest of your party, unfortunately. You can ask him to drop you, if you want.
Liam: I'm reaching out and clasping Vex's hand as we run forward.
Marisha: What are rolling?
Taliesin: Constitution check.
Ashley: All of us?
Marisha: That's not too bad.
Taliesin: Okay! 21.
Marisha: 22.
Orion: 19.
Liam: Ten.
Laura: Nine.
Ashley: Five.
Travis: 13.
Marisha: Aw, we were the happy table. (laughter)
Matt: You guys keep pushing forward. For you guys, the sheer amount of heated ash that is starting to pour into your lungs, even though Keyleth is keeping a tunnel ahead of you--
Laura: We're a little further behind her. (laughs)
Matt: All of you suffer ten points of fire damage.
Travis: Can I use my stone's endurance?
Matt: You can, yes.
Travis: Okay. Shit.
Ashley: I'm going to ask him to drop me, and I'm going to do a Mass Cure Wounds.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Oh fuck, how high am I?
Matt: You don't know.
Laura: No, don't do it, Pike!
Marisha: No, don't do it, Pike!
Ashley: He's dying!
Travis: No, I'm okay. I got back 19 points.
Matt: Okay. You shrug off that damage. You don't heal past it, you just shrug off that damage.
Travis: Okay, good.
Matt: So you take no damage from that.
Ashley: Oh. That's good.
Matt: So. As you guys are racing forward, the storm is still blowing and you can hear Cerkonos shouting as a hawk, adding this beacon of noise as you guys are trying to follow suit. Since you're leading the way, Keyleth, I want you to go ahead and make a survival check.
Marisha: I was going to say, can I use my wanderer ability where I think I get-- my survival ability? I think I get advantage?
Matt: I'll give you advantage on this survival check. Go for it.
Marisha: Please. That's much better! Okay. 14. No, don't-- sorry, I rolled a 14. 24!
Matt: 24. You're able to keep a focused direction on both where Cerkonos is going and keeping a connection to where that portal was you guys stepped through to get to this elemental plane. As you're pushing forward, you find yourself not getting lost in this darkened storm, thankfully. Slowly ahead of you, Keyleth, you see what looks like the slowly rotating portal that you guys stepped through.
Marisha: We're almost there!
Matt: Everyone once again make a constitution save.
Marisha: Hold on!
Laura: Which one?
Taliesin: Yes!
Laura: That's good. That was better!
Taliesin: 21.
Marisha: 13.
Orion: 14.
Liam: 14.
Laura: 18.
Ashley: Eight. TRAVIS 19.
Matt: All right. Everyone below a 15, you take 12 points of fire damage as the fumes come into your lungs. The wind tunnel is helping reduce the DC of the roll to a certain extent, but this is a very dangerous storm to be in. Essentially, every minute that passes that you're in it--
Travis: Can I use a hit dice to heal myself at all?
Matt: You need a short rest to get there. You guys make your way to the outskirts of the portal and you leap through, as one by one, you all jump into this portal, the druids following behind. The sense of falling becomes this jettison motion as you are shoved and thrown into the air, out of the portal, and landing about 15 feet, 20 feet from the fall. I need all of you guys to make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Oh, you bastard.
Taliesin: Can I use my saving throw reroll that I get?
Matt: It's a skill check.
Taliesin: It's a skill check? Damn it. Okay.
Matt: So. Grog?
Travis: Six.
Laura: Pike, what'd you roll?
Ashley: 16.
Laura: One!
Liam: 25.
Orion: One!
Marisha: 19.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: All right. Percy, Tiberius, Vax, and Grog all take three points of damage from the fall. (whack) You've hit the ground around this open lava crevasse, smacking onto the ground, looking up into the air, catching your first gasp of relatively clean air, comparatively to where you just were. You hear with a rumbling sound, the lava spiral begins to close off (sucking sound). ASHLEY Mass Cure Wounds? 33.
Liam: What about my sister and Tibsy?
Travis: Everybody gets 33 points.
Matt: Oh, you guys managed to catch yourself, and don't take any damage as you land on your feet.
Liam: Because they rolled a one.
Matt: Oh, you rolled a one?
Laura: Me and Tiberius rolled ones.
Matt: Oh, I thought you rolled a one. I'm sorry. You take the three damage.
Laura: Oh, that's it? Well. It's easy to get us confused though because we look so similar.
Matt: That is true.
Ashley: 33, guys.
Taliesin: 33.
Matt: As the lava vortex closes, you can see the cinderstorm that's been billowing out like a giant stack of black smoke and burning embers slowly fades away, the portal closing off entirely. As the molten rock pool comes to rest, Cerkonos is now standing out, covered in soot like the rest of you, and he steps forward and releases his hand out towards Keyleth, as you're sitting on the ground from the fall. Lifts you up to your feet. Looks you in the eye. "You. You have the blessing of the Pyrah behind you."
Travis: Yeah, Keyleth!
Taliesin: Bravo!
Matt: "Go forth and continue your Aramente knowing we acknowledge your wisdom and ability."
Marisha: Thank you, Cerkonos. Brother.
Matt: He reaches his hand out and clasps it. Lifts you to your feet. At this point he turns and nods to one of the nearby druids. The druid steps forward, presenting a black orb about that big of blackened rock that has red veins of pulsing energy arcing through it like a bolt of lightning locked in a single moment in time. "This is a spark stone, rare within the realm you just escaped. We've harvested but a handful over generations, and few have returned with them. This one is yours, Keyleth. To use yourself, or bequeath to an ally. When crushed by the hands of one, their fists shall burn with the fury of an efreet."
Laura: For how long?
Matt: "For as long as you wish."
Laura: Forever!
Matt: "The choice is yours, who this blessing is given."
Marisha: Thank you. This is a great honor.
Matt: "Well. You're welcome to stay as long as you wish before you must continue on your journey."
Marisha: I think a rest might be in order. I'm exhausted.
Travis: Yeah. You think they have graham crackers and little bits of chocolate with marshmallow?
Marisha: Oh, to make s'mores? That's a great idea.
Ashley: That's a good idea.
Laura: And also a lot of water.
Taliesin: Water would be lovely.
Marisha: Do you have water, Cerkonos?
Orion: I have water! (spraying)
Matt: At which point, water begins spewing forth from this vial that Tiberius has. (spraying) All this steam is rising up as it hits the ground, the heat from the vicinity--
Orion: It's mainly for drinking and such, but are we all done?
Matt: The other druids step forward, looking a little thirsty themselves. It's a magical source of water, where they have to toil to bring it to their location. They all take out their cups and fill from it. You all drink. They take the small cups they have off to the side, they cheer to you, eventually leading you out of the Cindergrove. You guys break your way towards the druidic village on the outskirts of the forest. Cerkonos gives a nod, rubs his shoulder. "I am to tend to the wounds of my helpers in your test. Do as you see fit. Leave when you feel comfortable. And good luck."
Marisha: I bow to him, and I salute, and I say, Kaitiake, brother.
Matt: "Kaitiake, princess." And he turns around and steps back towards the forest.
Travis: Your people are fucking sweet. (laughter)
Marisha: Thank you.
Orion: Yes, I rather enjoyed that environment myself.
Ashley: What does kaitiake mean?
Marisha: It is sort of our salute. It means "guardian" and "brethren." It's a high salute.
Laura: (mispronouncing) Kaitiake.
Marisha: Kaitiake.
Laura: Kaitiake.
Liam: And not tomorrow please, but where do you need to go next for this quest of yours?
Marisha: Well, my last stop would be to the Water Ashari. In Aquas. Back on another continent.
Travis: Well, that's good. I don't think we could take another one right now, anyway.
Marisha: No, I don't think we could. I'm doing pretty good, actually. I'm ahead of schedule.
Orion: (laughs) Wonderful. Let's just take some respite.
Travis: Yeah, please.
Matt: We'll say for the sake of brevity, as it is getting rather late, and which for all of you guys watching, consider this lengthy episode a gift for the fact that we won't be doing this next week because some of us will be out of town. But you rest for a bit. You eventually find your way back down to the base of the mountain range. Your horses have not been touched, although they are a little hungry. An uneventful journey, make your way back to Vasselheim, where over the past six or seven days of travel, Pike, you come to find the curse has been lifted from the temple of Sarenrae, and your followers, as they are now calling themselves, though you had not expected to become this beacon of light to these worshipers who had no central focus or entity to guide them in their worship, you've become a very important figure to them, and they welcome your return to the temple.
Ashley: (quietly) Oh, but I don't want to go back. (laughter)
Ashley: What if I want to stay?
Matt: Then talk to the producers of Blindspot.
Liam: You're an important figure to us as well, Pickles.
Ashley: Pickles.
Travis: Yeah, you've done so much for our lives. Maybe you continue to do good in these lives?
Ashley: Well... debatable.
Travis: You can leave them anytime, and we'll kick their ass so you can come back.
Laura: Any moment at all.
Ashley: This was so great, being a part of your journey that you had.
Orion: You are always part of our journey, no matter where we go, Pike.
Travis: Just keep the poo close.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Laura: I mean, I don't know what it does exactly.
Marisha: We have a good feeling about it.
Liam: Just put your faith in Sarenrae.
Ashley: Okay. Well, I guess I'll go.
Laura: (choked sob noise)
Ashley: Kaitiake. (cheering)
Laura: Explosions!
Liam: Tatonka.
Travis: Tatonka, yeah!
Orion: I'm sorry, but Tiberius runs up and squeezes Pike, one more time.
Ashley: Hugs and loves.
Orion: You're my favorite gnome.
Ashley: Oh, thanks. You're my favorite-- everything, I guess. (laughter)
Ashley: Dragonborn.
Matt: Pike turns and returns towards the excavation of the long-lost temple of Sarenrae, you all give her--
Laura: It hurts every time, Pike.
Travis: We'll see you soon.
Ashley: Oh, okay.
Matt: And Keyleth, you have the boon of the spark stone to gift to whoever or whatever you see fit.
Marisha: Do I know what it does? Can I do like a check on it?
Matt: Best you can ascertain, looking at it, is once the stone is crushed, the hands of whatever creature crushes it become bequeathed with the flame of the elemental plane itself.
Orion: Interesting.
Liam: That would be good for anybody.
Ashley: Can she use it? Well, she already has that.
Marisha: I'll keep it safe.
Matt: You can keep tabs on it. It doesn't affect a weapon if you're holding it. It's only physical attacks like punches, claws, anything like that are affected by the flame.
Marisha: Could be cool for Grog. Boxing.
Taliesin: Would it enchant anything in animal form?
Marisha: Oh, claws? You said claws?
Matt: Yeah. So an animal form of yours, Trinket, anyone like that would have flames on their forearms.
Travis: Maybe we'll wait until something is negated.
Liam: Sleep on it.
Matt: Go ahead and mark Spark Stone in your inventory. And with that, as it is 11:30, we're going to go ahead and bring this-- (laughs) Bring this session to a close, thank you guys for your patience. Thank you crew for your patience. Wanted to give Ashley a proper send-off and bring the conclusion to this chapter of the Aramente for Keyleth. Well done on your first brief journey to the harsh landscape that is the Elemental Plane of Fire.
Travis: Fuck that place.
Laura: That's awful. Thank god that dragon didn't freaking attack us.
Travis: They don't sell any timeshares there, I gather.
Matt: Just a reminder guys, me and Marisha will be out of town next week. There will be no Critical Role. We'll have members here that will be still here to stream and play games and answer questions and all kinds of stuff they'll have planned, I'm sure.
Taliesin: Oh, and if you're in Denver I will be at-- is it Nan Desu Kan? I'm blanking. I'll be in Denver at Nan Desu Kan, so you can go see me in Denver.
Matt: That's awesome. And some of you guys are going to be at--
Laura: We're going to be at SacAnime next week. The three of us.
Travis: The two twins and the handsome one.
Laura: And I'm going to be at PAX tomorrow and Saturday, so I'm leaving tomorrow morning to head up to Seattle. Go say hi. We're doing a crowdplay of Tales from the Borderlands on Saturday night. You should come.
Matt: That's going to be fun.
Orion: So tune in next week for Chalk Talk with Tiberius.
Matt: Yes! [end of transcription]
Liam: Yes! [end of transcription]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone and welcome to Critical Role an online show on Twitch where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors roll dice and play Dungeons and Dragons. My name is Matthew Mercer. I'm the Dungeon Master. For returning fans, welcome, and for new folks, prepare. A couple of fun things to announce: first things first, unfortunately we are down a Percy this evening. Our buddy Taliesin picked up a con plague in Alaska this past weekend. He had a great time, but came back very ill and has been trying to get better, and is unable to make the game tonight. Which makes the current storyline a little interesting, but we'll work it out. It's fine. No Mercy Percy is going to have some business he's attending to. Thank the Critters for that. That's an awesome hashtag! So Taliesin, I hope you feel better. We miss you. Next week we continue that arc. Let's see, first and foremost, still every 100 subs we get on the channel we have a giveaway to someone who's active in the chatroom. The winner of that giveaway gets a signed picture of the cast of Critical Role, as well as a signed poster by our amazing artist Kit Buss, who was with us for our last session. Those are both given away to whoever wins that, so keep those subs going. Also, there is currently going around a hashtag: No Shave 'Til 10k. A number of people on the stream are a part of that. All sexes can compete and be a part of this, too. No Shave 'Til 10k. If you want to be a part of that, go ahead and tweet that out. Get that hashtag going and I'll see if I can convince Marisha to let me do that. We'll see. At the very least, for my Halloween costume. All right, so other cool things to talk about: all of tonight's donations are going towards the Extra Life charity. The Extra Life charity is a drive that's part of the Children's Miracle Network Hospitals. A lot of great people in the community have been supporting this and we're supporting that tonight. So any donations tonight will go to Extra Life. Also over the next two days, we will also be streaming here at Geek and Sundry doing a lot of other charity events for the Extra Life charity drive, including a small DND game-- some of us-- on Saturday evening with the Vox Moronica crew. So that should be fun. Come check that out! Oh, Dungeons and Dragons, the official Wizards of the Coast folks are also doing their Extra Life stream over the next 48 hours. They're just going to be doing live DND streams as well. So starting tomorrow at noon through Sunday at noon, just constant DND on the Wizards of the Coast stream as well. And all of that is going to be raising money for Extra Life. So you'll have a lot of things to keep you busy this weekend essentially. So there's that. Also, we have New York Comic Con coming up in just a couple of weeks. Excited about that, for all you guys. We have panels on Saturday. Do we have times for those yet?
Liam: Between 1 00 and 4 00 is when we're doing stuff.
Matt: Yeah, between 1 00 and 4 00. We have about an hour panel in there somewhere and then probably two hours of signings at the event on Saturday. So 1:00 and 4:00! Leave that period of time open. Hang out.
Marisha: We'll have prints!
Matt: Exactly! And then on Sunday, outside of the convention, because we know a lot of the badges were snatched up before this announcement even happened and a lot of the Critters aren't able to make it to the actual con. On Sunday, we're looking around midday. We don't have a time or location determined yet, but that will be up on Twitter soon. It's going to happen. We're going to have an offsite Critter meetup. Where we're going to all be able to be there, hang out with you guys and catch up, sign stuff, say hi, and have a good time. So watch Twitter. If you don't follow us on Twitter, do it, because we'll have those announcements coming up very soon. So excited about that. Liam, you wanted to announce--
Liam: Yes! This is the final chance for y'all to jump on Joe Madureira's Kickstarter, Battle Chasers: Nightwar. They have absolutely killed their Kickstarter. They hit their goal, their initial goal about two or three days in, and they have been hitting every single stretch goal they've had. They've got one last mystery stretch goal left to hit. So it's a good time to get in and just get them to the very tippy, tippy top of their campaign, which is about to end. If you guys don't know, really quick, because I've been talking about it for two weeks: Joe Madureira, amazing comic book legend, has drawn everything. It looks like nobody else's and has a good history in game dev as well. Created Darksiders with his company, Vigil Games, that he helped found. And now he has founded Airship Syndicate, and they're making an RPG in the style of JRPGs that you've loved in your lives. But also with Joe's ridonkulous art style. So go get on it.
Matt: Yeah! Thank you, Liam. Orion, you wanted to say something real fast as well.
Orion: Yes. Greetings and salutations, everyone! Last week when Kit was here-- Hi Kit, we miss you! We went to It's a Wrap over in Burbank, California. Me and Liam and Laura and Marisha and Kit and her hubby. We were there and saw this robe, and I think Marisha and Laura were like, try it on, and I was like, okay. And I tried it on and was like, oh my god, it was made for me.
Matt: The Tiberius robe you always knew-- or didn't know you wanted.
Orion: Yeah, totally, I was like, oh my god, and Liam tweeted a picture about it, and then I was streaming on my stream on Twitch and somebody mentioned the robe. And Michael Bauman-- thank you again, I'm going to thank you on Critical Role for-- he donated $400, which was the cost of the robe, and then he just wrote in the chat, this is for the robe, so I'm wearing the robe.
Laura: That's awesome!
Orion: Thank you very much. Thank you so much you guys and all you guys who pitched in and stuff. Thank you.
Matt: We'll find many cool excuses to have that robe be displayed and utilized in many ways. I'm pretty sure he hasn't taken it off since he got it.
Laura: Yeah, it smells really bad, you guys.
Matt: Awesome! Anybody else have any other announcements before we get this party started?
Travis: I like cheese.
Matt: Travis likes cheese, ladies and gentlemen.
Laura: That's a good announcement.
Matt: I think so. It was very informative. Thank you, Travis. All right, then. Without further ado, let's go ahead and cut to the intro and then we'll jump right into the next episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back! So picking up after the events of last week, to give you guys a little bit of a refresher. After the party had returned from their journey into Vasselheim for quite a few weeks, they discovered upon returning that the illustrious Briarwoods, current owners of Castle Whitestone and overseers of the entire city of Whitestone and sticking point in Percy's background, were coming to Emon to meet for essentially a political banquet with Sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei to discuss construction of a bridge. It was a very political endeavor. And the council of Tal'Dorei was invited, including Vox Machina. There was a week of preparation in going into this event to see exactly what the Briarwoods were about. Information was gathered at this banquet. Vax went on his own little adventure into the Briarwoods' room, in which they nearly killed him. (chuckles)
Liam: Hey, everybody!
Matt: I didn't notice the shirt until now. So yeah, the party rushed out to his aid. Much violence ensued. The Briarwoods eventually escaped through some sort of magical means that was not uncovered. However, they are no longer in the picture. The party was left with a destroyed carriage, a young carriage driver who had his hand shot off by Percy, and was then told to the guards to haul off and bring to their keep to throw into their cell for further questioning. Uriel was eventually drawn out and confused by the sudden chaos and vehemently requested that Vox Machina return the next morning to go over what has transpired. After which, the party during this event had encountered a tiefling by the name of Lillith, who was masquerading as one of the servants within the palace of Tal'Dorei. Aided them in the battle and revealed that she was being hunted by her sisters in a distant land and revealing herself here essentially opened up her physical presence to be pinpointed and then immediately sought and hunted by whoever was after her. The party then brought her back to the keep. They were on the way back before they were encountered by this bounty hunter and a small team of individuals that were coming with him to seek down, capture Lillith, and bring her back to her sisters. The party then defended her in this circumstance, brutally murdering one of them. Sorry, brutally murdering two of them. One of which was then raised and sent off as a present to the sisters by Lillith. One was salvaged, not given an honorable death, and sent to find his way somewhere northwest of Emon. Possibly towards Vasselheim or wherever else he may find his adventure. They then gave Lillith the opportunity to come stay the night to rest in the keep and they all made their way back to Greyskull Keep for the evening. And that was where we left off. So as the evening progresses you all manage to get your rest and gather your thoughts over the rather stressful experience you had the previous evening within the palace. The next morning comes around. You all come to consciousness. Breakfast is prepared by the servants of the keep. As you all wake up, start getting your meals and gathering what you want to do for the day, two individuals have not come down for their meal. Lillith and Percy.
Orion: Good morning, everyone!
Sam: Not everyone. We're missing two. A male and a female.
Laura: Oh. No.
Travis: You don't think?
Laura: Percy was upset.
Sam: Maybe he needed some comforting.
Orion: Oh, I see. Are you saying they're having relations?
Sam: I'm not saying that.
Laura: Perhaps we should check on them?
Travis: We should totally check on them!
Sam: Okay, but if there's a sock or a gun on the doorknob, don't go in.
Laura: Or a ribbon. She wore a ribbon.
Orion: Well, I was thinking last night, Grog, that we're probably going to be here for a little bit before going anywhere. Do we go anywhere?
Laura: We have to go see Uriel.
Orion: Who? Oh. Right! Yes! Also, I really want to see Allura. For no particular-- actually for very specific reasons. Yes.
Travis: I think he's lying.
Orion: One of them is  I want to pick up one of the Earrings of Telecommunication. It has been finished for quite some time. We just have to go to where she resides to pick it up. Then one of us could have another one.
Liam: That robe just takes it to a whole new level!
Laura: Yeah, it really does.
Orion: I feel so good.
Liam: I'm somewhat entranced.
Orion: I'm telling you, it's helping, too.
Travis: Do I feel a little tingle from my belt? And can I roll for a beard check?
Sam: Oh, beard check?
Travis: Six. Two.
Matt: You wake up, realizing that the morning has transpired. You reach up and grab. And what you guys notice as he comes up is there is a dark charcoal smear across one side of his face where facial hair would once be, to match the other side that is currently beautiful quaff and shining in the dapples of morning light that come through the keep window.
Travis: You know the remedy for it, you just turn your face in the looking glass.
Laura: Yeah, from this angle you look amazing Grog.
Travis: My god, I'm so handsome. Right? And then just horror. Sheer horror.
Orion: (poof) A little dust and fix that for him.
Laura: Oh, so it looks normal again? I like it! Yeah. Beautiful. Don't touch it.
Matt: The color's a little off, but it looks better than not having it.
Marisha: In my head you're like those Mr. Wooly magnetic toys when you're a kid.
Travis: I would shave it and get it even, but let's be honest, given history, it's going to take care of itself soon enough. These things don't live very long.
Laura: I'm going to go upstairs and see if our guest, Lillith, is all right. I don't want to disturb Percy just yet.
Matt: All right. You head to the guest room. You have one guest room upstairs that was among the rest of the rooms that you guys had constructed.
Travis: (singing) They're going to be getting it on!
Matt: You knock on the door. A moment passes. No response.
Laura: Lillith? Are you with Percy? Lillith?
Matt: You knock a second time and the door (creaks) opens a little bit. It has not really been locked or closed.
Laura: I peek my head in.
Matt: You peek in and look.
Travis: Did you check for traps?
Matt: Roll a-- no, I'm kidding. (laughter)
Laura: Damn it!
Matt: Already off! No. As you peek into the room, the lights are dimmed. What little bit of candles are in there are already down. Glancing in, the sheets are clean and set, the bed's been made, and there is a small piece of parchment that is folded on the edge of the bed.
Laura: Go and read it.
Matt: Read it? It reads, "Vox Machina, thank you all for your hospitality and protection through this past evening. I would stay, but the longer I remain, the more danger I am in, and as such, put all of you in as well. I shall travel across the Ozmit Sea to seek the guidance of my cousin Zahra, in hopes of finally getting out from under my sisters' baneful gaze. Nevertheless, I wish you all the finest of journeys, and I hope we meet again soon. Lillith."
Laura: She's so cute.
Marisha: I liked her bow. It was cute.
Laura: I tell everyone that she's gone. Gone.
Travis: No, she's in Percy's room! Scanlan, let's go see if he's banging!
Sam: All right, let's go! (laughter)
Matt: You run up and Percy's room is-- the door is already partially ajar.
Travis: (boom)
Matt: It bursts open. (wham) Slams on the side of the door, looking in the room. He's not there, is the first thing you notice. However, what you do see are a series of different books of sketches and designs and half-concocted blueprints for different things are crumpled and torn across the room. The bedsheets are thrown off the bed. It looks like the room has been continuously tossed through some sort of frenzied action, either seeking something or just out of emotional frustration. This room is left in far more disarray than you're used to seeing true to Percy's character.
Sam: My god, Grog. Percy's a hoarder.
Travis: Right.
Sam: Or he's in serious distress.
Travis: I think it's the previous.
Sam: The hoarder?
Travis: Yeah. Probably.
Sam: We must find him, don't you think? Our friend's in trouble. I proceed down to his tinkering lab. Doesn't he have some sort of lab downstairs?
Travis: My room's like shit, and I'm not in trouble.
Sam: Well, that goes with your character.
Matt: Yeah. You head down to the basement area, and to the right is the cell, to the left is the workshop. The workshop door is currently closed. There is a small slider eye vent where you can peek through.
Sam: Can I reach the eye vent?
Matt: You can if you leap hard enough and catch it on the edge.
Travis: I boost him up.
Matt: Okay. Looking inside, you can see, the forge is aglow. You hear the tangs of metal being hammered against the anvil, and you can see the form of Percy framed against the backlighting of the forge. He's feverishly working away on some sort of project.
Travis: Is he naked?
Sam: No, he's working too hard. Maybe we should just leave him be. Seems focused, driven, like a madman.
Travis: Oh. I get it. Like a madman?
Sam: I don't think you do.
Matt: At which point a voice rings out from across the room: Percy unmoving, still continuing his work, shouts over his shoulder, "Please, leave me be. I have a lot to think about right now."
Sam: Would you like a meal brought down?
Matt: "I'm fine. Thank you. Really. I need some time."
Sam: All right. If you're making things, a little ladder for the little perch here might be nice. Just in the future! But not now. That seems low priority.
Matt: He stops his banging, walks over and scribbles something on a paper, then goes back to banging. "Noted." (clanging)
Travis: I drop Scanlan and I lean in and I go, beware the water! It burns!
Matt: "Yes. Yes, it does, Grog. Good boy."
Sam: All right. So we go back up. Tell the fellows, Percy's in a mood. He's creating right now. I think we should just leave him be.
Laura: Understandable.
Liam: Let him get it out of his system.
Marisha: I'm really worried about him.
Sam: Yes.
Orion: Matthew? Rolling-- 12. I'm just trying to teach my pet something but I rolled a 12.
Matt: For?
Orion: Oh, I want it to follow. To follow.
Matt: To follow. Okay. You gather, based on the recent intensity of trying to teach things to Lockheed over the past week. You succeed in a few. There is a bit of balking frustration that perhaps you've overstepped a little bit, and Lockheed feels maybe there's less of a friendship here more than a real master-servant relationship, at least in this moment, and does not seem to be receptive to your attempt.
Orion: He's in a mood, also. Why is everybody in a mood today?
Sam: I know. Percy's hate-smelting downstairs.
Laura: Percy has good reason to hate-smelt. He seems rather disturbed that the Briarwoods got away.
Sam: Yes. I feel responsible.
Marisha: Out of curiosity, did anyone else hear him-- did anyone else just happen to hear what he said in that fight last night?
Laura: I was a little bit preoccupied by watching him shoot a servant boy over and over and over again.
Marisha: It was after that, actually.
Laura: What did he say?
Marisha: Never mind.
Sam: What? No, spit it out. What did he say? It seems important.
Marisha: It's hard to say. You know Percy. I don't know where he gets these lines.
Sam: Is it fuck? Is it shit?
Travis: Cock! Bulls! Dong! Wang!
Liam: Steampunk!
Marisha: Jeez. Okay.
Travis: Donkey wang!
Marisha: This is getting really off subject.
Orion: I'm going to go down to my laboratory.
Laura: What did he say?
Marisha: It was when he was screaming the cluster of things as he was shooting that mercenary in the face, and he said, "What are you doing? You have no reason to be here. Your soul is now forfeit." Really, that last part is the most important one. The first stuff is fairly average. But yeah, "Your soul is now forfeit."
Travis: It's a good line.
Laura: It's a really good line.
Sam: Thought he was just trash-talking. You think there's more to it?
Marisha: I thought it was maybe a line and then it seemed really aggressive and strong and specific, so it made me think a lot. I don't know.
Laura: Did you ask him about it at all?
Marisha: We haven't seen him since that happened.
Travis: What do you think?
Laura: What, do you think his Pepperbox is-- what?
Marisha: I think he's not telling us everything, that's for sure.
Sam: Well, we all have some secrets.
Marisha: Yeah. But screaming, "Your soul is now forfeit?" That's not a secret. That's saying you peed the bed when you were a kid.
Liam: I worry, too, but he did lose his entire family.
Laura: He did pee the bed when he was a kid.
Marisha: Oh, really?
Liam: I am assuming. But he lost his entire family to those people.
Marisha: Sure. But he wasn't screaming this at the Briarwoods. He was screaming this at a random mercenary.
Laura: Well?
Marisha: What does that mean?
Travis: Maybe his soul is forfeit.
Marisha: To what?
Travis: Death?
Laura: Maybe we keep an eye on Percy.
Sam: That's a fair point, though. We'll keep an eye on him. He seems to be in a fragile state right now.
Laura: Percy's not the one who killed a poor old woman, though.
Sam: Did we kill her? I thought we just made her sleep and then walked away.
Travis: Nope. No. Total massacre.
Laura: Tiberius destroyed her.
Sam: Tiberius, you killed an old woman?
Orion: I'm not there.
Marisha: Yeah, that's actually another thing I wanted to talk about. That was also really intense. You know, I get it. It was a hard day. It was a hard day, and we tend to get a little aggressive sometimes after hard days. We've all been there. But he didn't just murder an old woman. He chainsawed her. A sleeping, unconscious woman.
Travis: It was pretty great!
Sam: Are you saying that we should take it down a notch? Or maybe not brutally destroy the bad guys?
Marisha: You also were the only other one who seemed to be confused as to what was going on.
Laura: I shot her. I shot her in the back. Let's be honest. I didn't chainsaw her, but I did shoot her in the back as she was running away.
Sam: I made her go to sleep. That was peaceful.
Marisha: That's what I'm saying. That was good. That was nice.
Laura: I was aiming for her shoulder, if it makes any difference.
Travis: She did have that sweet little run, which was so cute.
Sam: Are you taking moral exception to some of our behavior?
Marisha: That might exactly be what I'm saying. Man, you see this is why I like you, Scanlan. You're so much better at the words than me. I don't think I even knew that's what I felt until you said it just now.
Sam: Well, this is something perhaps you should pray on and think on. If there's something you'd like us to change about our behavior, we can consider that. We're all friends. We're allies here. We should pay respect to you.
Marisha: I just don't want us to--
Liam: It's a fair point. We don't want to be corrupted by the very evil that we mean to stamp out in this world. She was trying to kill us. But your point is taken.
Marisha: She was a really old woman.
Liam: But she wasn't the secretary. She was trying to kill.
Marisha: Sure. But she was unconscious.
Travis: She actually didn't do anything, either.
Marisha: Yeah, she didn't really do anything at all.
Travis: She could have been taking notes.
Laura: She had a wand!
Marisha: I'm not saying she wasn't a threat and I'm not saying we shouldn't handle threats. I'm saying maybe we shouldn't dissect a woman with a spinning Krull blade who's sleeping on the ground. Defenseless, running away. She was fleeing.
Sam: All right. You know, this is constructive criticism, and we'll take it as such. And I, for one, will maybe not desecrate and denigrate bodies.
Laura: Just beds! And temples. (laughs)
Liam: I don't know! I mean, I see what Keyleth's saying, but I don't really want to cramp your style, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, I'll shit on things. Maybe not people.
Liam: We're like the A-Team, and that's your specialty. I don't really want to-- See, you should just shit when you feel the urge.
Laura: What time is it? Do we need to be getting to Uriel?
Travis: Oh yeah, what time is it?
Matt: At this point, it's probably pushing on 11 am, close to noon.
Laura: We should probably be getting to the palace.
Matt: Tiberius, what did you say you were doing down there? What did you say you were doing down in your laboratory?
Orion: Well, I was doing my research on that stuff last night and this morning.
Matt: Your which one?
Orion: It's just my ability because of my class. I do the backstory.
Matt: Your backstory is?
Orion: I am a noble sage.
Matt: Well, there's a noble and there's a sage.
Orion: Yeah, I know, and I spliced them because it made sense. No. The noble part is the RP. The sage is the perk.
Matt: Okay. Gotcha. That's good to know. All right.
Orion: And I was writing down the sigil to the keep. That's completed.
Matt: Okay. So the sigil is there for you. All right. And so as the sage-- All right. Okay. So yeah. Not difficult to research. There are a number of books. They're older books and things that were installed as part of the construction of this laboratory for you, and information that you have gathered since. There are various bestiaries and gatherings of information about the dangerous denizens in the countryside around you, and it is a very dangerous place outside of the few points of civilized society that has built up its own defenses. Throughout the evening and the morning, you've managed to find eventually a piece that talks about various undead entities and the process of undeath, and necromantic magics that have been perverted throughout the generations to defy the natural cycle of life. You do come across an entry about vampirism. It is extremely rare and was largely thought abolished close to 200 years ago. There are very rare whispers of any sort of cases out there, and usually as soon as something comes to any sort of public knowledge, large mobs gather and whoever was infected with this horrible state was hunted down and killed. What you do learn from this is religious symbology, while classically thought to have an effect on people afflicted with vampirism, actually has no effect. It's more of a superstition, but does not actually have any negative impact on the individual. However, certain things that do render a vampire easier to destroy: the presence of sunlight. Anything that counts as sunlight can damage them progressively the longer they're in it, prevent them from restoring their health, and ultimately destroy them and turn them to ash, should they be brought to the brink of death in the presence of sunlight. Also, very quickly and consistently rushing water. Being held into a rushing stream or under a waterfall would have a similar effect to sunlight. You do also know the stake in the heart is also considered to be a way to destroy them. It does not actually destroy them, but it does render them paralyzed and has to be done when they're in their resting place, within their coffin and/or the dirt that is considered their resting location. Usually that is the beginning step: to find and locate where the vampire is resting, stake in the heart, and then carry the body to sunlight or rushing water. And that's how they're permanently destroyed. You also find out that if a vampire is thought to be killed under any other circumstances, the body turns to mist and is nigh invulnerable and eventually finds its way back to wherever they've hidden their resting place to recover within a very short period of time, making them extremely dangerous, unless you have the right situation, the right conditions, to bring them to that point. So that information is now at your disposal.
Orion: Wonderful.
Travis: Do you want to tell us what you've learned?
Orion: I did it right this time! Knowing that, I take some files and-- I want to check if I can-- Nope. I can't do anything yet. That's it. I'm going to go upstairs.
Matt: Okay. So as you guys have gathered the time and what you might be, going forward, doing for the rest of the day, Tiberius comes upstairs with a bit of a smile and an air of confidence.
Laura: Oh good, you're back.
Liam: Tibs, we were just discussing the future of the group and the direction we've been taking. And a point was introduced that maybe perhaps, we started as a sort of a-- mercenary group is a bit strong-- but this alliance we have formed out of convenience. We all needed to eat. But now that we're at the stature we are, in a keep, in Emon. Friends to the emperor. We want to figure out what we're doing here. Do we want to be just powerful badasses who walk around getting what they want, or are we trying to enact some positive change in this world?
Orion: Yes, absolutely. That's what my items are for. I've only found one of them. There are still three or four, if they even exist out there. There are countless things to go and venture forth and explore.
Travis: What? Your items?
Orion: The artifacts, the Ring of Boros, the old hag. That is the next step in my quest. She told us it would be in the Feywood. Right?
Matt: Feywild. Close. Researcher.
Orion: That is where we need to go. But that's why we ran into her in Vasselheim, and she wouldn't tell me anything more.
Marisha: How do you plan to use your items? For better good in the world?
Orion: Well, you've seen how I've used my Mending Wheel. Countless ways.
Travis: Yeah, thank you. You healed my cask. I'll always be grateful.
Orion: Moreover, it would prove to the council that all of the things that I went on this journey for to begin with, it was true. Or for naught. And really, to gain the respect of my father and everyone else. You don't know how hard it is to be a chromatic dragon in a metallic world! It's not easy.
Liam: Well, there's no question that you are an invaluable member of Vox Machina, and our friend, and our family. And that is not in question.
Orion: Of course. Which is why I have pledged my loyalty to you all. And I need your strength, as well. There is no way I could accomplish in my mission alone. I mean, Grog, when I ran into you in that one bar. How many men were you beating up? I counted eight, if I recall.
Travis: I think that sounds right.
Sam: He can't count.
Travis: It's that many.
Orion: Here was this brute who I would have ran away from, but here you were, and I found you to be rather charming. I figured, well, that's some good company to keep, rather. And then I met the rest of you, and look where we are now!
Laura: Yes. Tiberius, the point of this is you killed an old woman last night, very brutally. Please maybe don't do that again.
Orion: She felt nothing, but of course. And I was giving my new Krull blade a good old try.
Laura: Yes, you were. Maybe not on sleeping people anymore. People who are actually attacking us.
Orion: She was-- okay, fine.
Liam: Well, I think the point is your abilities in arcane wonder are expanding daily. Exponentially. And perhaps be a little tentative. Do a little practice run in the woods on your own, once in a while, and see what the effects are before you go whipping it out.
Orion: Are there woods nearby?
Sam: This is an intervention. We love you very much, but you killed an old lady.
Travis: I like the way you kill people.
Orion: Well, yes.
Laura: We're all on the up and up now, right?
Orion: One raises a hand to me or Vox Machina, they are going to die.
Travis: Yeah! Yeah, they are!
Orion: It is simple. I do not know why this is a discussion. I won't be as cruel--
Marisha: You know, she didn't even really do anything. She was really old.
Laura: She was attacking us.
Liam: Keyleth.
Marisha: What?
Liam: Clearly, we all love you as family, and nobody blames you, but you once killed a child, and none of us blame you for that.
Travis: Is it too early to start drinking? I pull out the cask of ale.
Liam: And that happened in the heat of battle.
Marisha: You know, I'm really sensitive about that, Vax. I'm really sensitive about that, Vax!
Liam: I'm well aware.
Marisha: And that was different.
Laura: It was an accident!
Marisha: That was pretty fucking deliberate, what he did.
Orion: Yes, to someone who was opposing us. That was a child who was innocent. Or was he opposing us, too? I don't remember, actually.
Liam: And it all falls apart.
Marisha: He was being puppeted by sorcerer Michael Jackson.
Liam: No one agrees with you today more than I, and I think we can adjust our perspective slightly. Right, Grog?
Travis: What's the word?
Liam: See?
Sam: Kill softer.
Orion: I'll show you how. You just have to do it really slow.
Laura: Uriel's waiting for us.
Sam: Let's table this. We'll stick a pin in this discussion. We'll all be thinking long and hard about this.
Laura: Keyleth, it wasn't intentional and everybody knows that.
Liam: Absolutely. Not intentional. No.
Marisha: I turn into Minxie and start walking.
Travis: Minxie! I go and give a little scratch behind the ears.
Matt: You guys gather and make your way into the city of Emon proper.
Laura: Actually, before we head towards Uriel, we probably should-- do we have any sort of proof that the Briarwoods actually did horrible things and it wasn't us attacking them?
Liam: Well, I've got these little scars right here.
Matt: The scars are still there. They're still wounds that are healing.
Laura: All right. Cool. Just making sure that we had something.
Liam: And then there was what's-his-name, Awesome Pants, who was there.
Laura: Seeker Asum.
Orion: Allura saw everything, as well.
Sam: Did she see the fight?
Laura: Allura didn't see the fight.
Liam: We know she knows what's up, but whether she can be used as a reliable witness is-- we've got multiple witnesses.
Sam: There were those guards, too. There was guards outside the door.
Liam: They were incinerated.
Sam: Oh yeah.
Laura: Plus, they were the Briarwoods' guards, anyway.
Orion: One of them was still alive. I didn't kill both of them.
Laura: He went away with the Briarwoods, I'm going to assume.
Travis: What a dick! We go to see Uriel.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I made a choice for the team! (laughter)
Matt: As you're having this discussion, all of you make your way into the city of Emon, across the districts to the Cloudtop. You're greeted and let within the gate into the central district there. You make your way to the palace of Tal'Dorei, through the front doors. The guards that are there lead you in and one of them says, "Uriel is waiting within the throne chamber." You guys are led down the main hallway into the very center of the palace.
Marisha: I come out of Minxie.
Matt: The nervous guard, thankfully, puts his weapon away and is like, "Oh! Lady Keyleth, my apologies." And puts his spear to the side.
Laura: Trinket's still here, though.
Liam: I buzz over to that specific guard and say, do you have a lost and found here? I have this really badass serpent-style belt. Sometimes it crawls around on its own. Sometimes it's just a belt. And I lost it here the other night. And I'm really hoping-- I mean, it ties everything together. Is there anyone I can check with?
Matt: "Check back after you've spoken with the Sovereign, please. Thank you." Leads you guys on. As you head down the main hallway-- and you recall this hallway. This was a long, dangerous trek the first time you came to the palace. This was where Uriel's family was possessed. This is where you had your battle with the glabrezu. This is where Pike was slain. This is where you had to pull the shadows from the bodies of his family. This is a very emotional place that you really haven't been to since that sequence of events. Walking in already has this tenuous state of low-simmering energy. As you're brought into the main chamber, you can see there is the dual thrones for Uriel and his wife. His wife is not present; his family is not present, just Uriel sitting on the throne. There are a few guards on the different entrances to the room. As you walk in, Uriel just sits there on the throne and gives you acknowledgment and ushers you into the room. You all step in. Trinket behind you keeping an eye out. Like a bear is wont to do. You guys make your way up towards the very edge of the central raised dais where the thrones are currently set up on. You now see on the opposite side of the room, Seeker Asum and Allura walk in, as well as Arbiter Brom, who is the cleric that is the Master of Law in the city. They walk up and flank the sides of the throne, stepping back a little bit to not gather all the attention, but definitely be there as a show of support. As they enter, the doors on the other side of the room and the door behind you open, and roughly 30 guards enter the chamber quietly. They all filter in, blocking all the exits. The doors close. No weapons are drawn, but there is a very strong showing of muscle in this room that you weren't expecting for this meeting. Once all the guards are settled and a really awkward silence hits the room, Uriel stands up from the throne and looks upon you. Pacing slightly, back and forth. "Thank you all for joining me. I must say, I am troubled by recent events, and I wish to speak to you regarding them before taking any action. I owe you that much for all you've done for me. Before you left for Vasselheim, you showed immediate interest in the Briarwoods. Percy in-- Where is Percival?"
Sam: Well, he's not feeling well today after the events of last night, so he stayed behind.
Matt: "Well, then please relay this conversation to him as soon as you see him. You exhibited interest in the Briarwoods before leaving for Vasselheim. I, through trust, did not inquire as to why. But upon your return, eagerly told you they were coming to this feast and invited you as part of the Council of Tal'Dorei to join this feast, as it was your request. I graciously followed through. You showed up. A meal was had. Questions were asked, although curious ones; I did not pry. Now I have since been notified, and seen a bit of the aftermath, that you, Vox Machina, seemingly attacked our guests shortly-- please. Listen. Attacked our guests shortly after the meal in their own guest quarters. Forcing them to flee, after you destroyed the hallway, ruined their carriage, murdered two of their guards, two more outside, and leaving Seeker Asum to witness this entire process." Asum gives a nod. "You then tortured their carriage driver, requested he be sent to the dungeon beneath your keep. And upon my sentries returning from Greyskull to deliver him, they find a freshly murdered old woman not far behind the path you took. Not long after, Seeker Asum found me and corroborated most of this unexpected, violent behavior. I then asked Arbiter Brom here to divine the nature of this murder. And through his divine sight, through the goddess Ioun, comes to tell me it was none other than you, Tiberius, that slaughtered this elderly woman while she slept."
Orion: Yes!
Matt: "Now, I am quite disturbed by the events of these past 14 hours, and I would like to hear an explanation. Arbiter, if you could please, prepare the space." Arbiter Brom steps forward and pulls forth from underneath his robes a necklace that contains a holy symbol. The same symbol you saw across the temple beneath the Slayer's Take, an eye-like inscription of the god Ioun. Brom grasps it, looks about you all, and prepares this slight hand gesture, and you feel a slight tingle across the skin that lasts a few seconds.
Marisha: Can I recognize the spell he's casting?
Matt: I'll say go ahead and make a-- this would be a religion check.
Marisha: He's doing a cleric thing, yeah? Seven.
Matt: All right. Unable to ascertain the nature. However, the incantation completes. No seeming noticeable effect. Brom nods and steps back in the line of the thrones. I want all of you guys to roll charisma saving throws.
Marisha: Son of a bitch. Always a problem.
Orion: 19.
Marisha: 11.
Sam: I get advantage, and I rolled a 27.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Bards.
Liam: 19.
Laura: 13.
Travis: 18.
Matt: All right. Good to know. Uriel then looks to the rest of you. "So. I've said my piece for the moment. Explain."
Liam: I step forward.
Marisha: Can I do a quick insight check on Asum to see if I can still recognize if he's still affected by the mind-control thing?
Matt: Go ahead and make an insight check, sure.
Marisha: Ooh yeah! 28.
Matt: Glancing at Asum, the way he's looking at you and the general tension and feeling of the room, you gather that Asum is not his normal self completely. You step forward.
Liam: Uriel. With all respect, I needn't remind you what the group of people before you put themselves through on your behalf and your family's behalf. We almost lost one of our own. And if that counts for nothing here, then nothing makes sense. But if that is not enough, let us start here.
Orion: The Briarwoods are vampires. And that old lady, who was a butthole by the way, was with this demonoid person who we had to fight as well.
Liam: One thing at a time. That's true, but one thing at a time. We had prior knowledge of the Briarwoods' intentions before this evening. And I myself went to spy on them.
Laura: Here's the thing. Percy doesn't like them because they killed his family. They took over his home, after killing his family. He got away. He knows they're scary. We're trying to protect you.
Orion: So the point is, we all know how dangerous it is that the knowledge of vampire existence and the spreading of those vile creatures. And now we know they do exist. So however the means that that came about is neither here nor there. We know where they are.
Travis: And if you're wondering how we know they're vampires-- (whispering) Vax, this is your cue.
Liam: I will subject myself to any test, to any wizard or mage in this city who you know can ascertain the truth. To look through my eyes, to see my memories. I don't know shit about magic, but there are people who do.
Sam: Cleric Tristan also treated him last night for his vampire-inflicted wound. I know this all looks really bad on the surface, and we did not want to cause any disturbance within these hallowed walls, but there was a danger, we acted. Perhaps too abruptly and without telling you.
Laura: We tried to get your attention. I called for you immediately. As soon as we knew there was danger.
Liam: And don't take our word for it. Anyone, have them look in here.
Orion: Actually, you take a Stormwind's word for--
Matt: "Silence! Silence. You're in my court now, Stormwind. You put so much weight upon this trust, and you have done a good service. But also I've heard whispers that you've thrown this trust around in many circles. Remember, we held a parade in your honor; we spread the word of the good deeds you've done. We, at our own costs of Emon, built you a keep, a home, at great expense, to show thanks. And also, I believed, upon allowing you to join the council, put us square. I owe you nothing. Just as you owe me nothing."
Liam: Do you not want the truth?
Matt: "I want the truth, but I also want you to understand the stakes that are here and why there is this question. As the leader of this-- not this city, but this entire countryside, I have to be sure, and this is not the first time I have been lied to by very close, trusted people, so I have to be thorough."
Liam: This is why I offer myself completely into your control and put myself under your supervision and any user of the arcane arts you want to peer inside my mind, let them step up to the plate, because I have nothing to hide.
Laura: Also, while you are inquiring about him, you might inquire about Seeker Asum.
Sam: If you're worried about lies within your own ranks, I think you should start with him.
Marisha: In fact, I actually might be able to help Seeker Asum, if you will allow me to.
Sam: Help him?
Matt: You glance over at Asum, and Asum gives a look to Uriel and Uriel--
Laura: He was mind-controlled last night.
Matt: "I have had Asum at my side for the better part of 15 years. He is responsible, far more than your merry band has ever attempted, for keeping and maintaining the good and lawful state of this country."
Liam: Uriel, your own family was not themselves! And you know that! Look into my mind! Now! Today! You don't need to guess anything.
Matt: "It would also do you well to show respect. We are speaking, half-elf. Now, I would assign Allura to such an endeavor. However, it has also been noticed that she has grown quite friendly and attached to your group, and in this circumstance, there is question. So you will be, in a few days, assigned an individual to this ritual of which you are presenting yourself."
Marisha: Uriel, please--
Matt: "Shh. The Briarwoods, regardless of what you may think they may be, or we do-- that will show in time-- have shown nothing over the past five years but graciousness, and gone through all proper channels to establish this relationship between our city and theirs. Far more than the previous family ever attempted."
Liam: Well, one may smile and smile and still be a villain.
Matt: "That goes both ways. Now, please."
Marisha: Just let me do a quick restoration spell on Asum. If nothing is wrong with him, nothing will happen. It's harmless. It's like taking medicine when you're not sick. It can't hurt. And if I am wrong, then we can continue on. We can have Vax tested. Please, it'll take ten minutes. What can it hurt?
Laura: Up until last night, he was himself. Trust us that now he is not.
Marisha: He came to us.
Matt: "There has been nothing about his behavior, at all, to insinuate any change of anything of the sort. And I have known the man for quite some time, before I even took this throne. However, I will, in the good graces and the relationship we forged, allow this. Asum, are you all right with this?" Asum gives a nod. "Well, if this is to be how it is. Certainly." And he steps forward. The halfling approaches you, looking you in the face. All right. You would like to attempt your Greater Restoration spell?
Marisha: First, I meditate for a second, and I cast Enhance Ability on myself.
Matt: As a note, as you begin casting, you notice the guards all go for their weapons and ready themselves, uncertain of what's about to transpire. There is a tension in the room based on what this is going to be.
Marisha: Can I get some meditation music, Scanlan?
Sam: Oh! (chanting)
Matt: All right. So first you cast Enhance Ability on yourself.
Marisha: Am I maybe inspired by that?
Matt: Sure. In the tension of the room, this slow droning hum of the gnome, which you can notice some of the guards look at each other, confused. And Asum puts his hand up like, hold off.
Liam: It's Tuvan throat singing.
Matt: All right. So first you cast Enhance Ability on your--
Marisha: Self.
Sam: What ability?
Marisha: To enhance wisdom? Wisdom.
Matt: Okay. You reach out with Greater Restoration. You complete the ritual. You touch onto the arms of Asum. It fades, and you see in his eyes there's a moment of clarity and an inhale. A slight gasp, like some realization hits him and his expression changes and looks towards you and just goes-- He puts his hands out like this for a moment, just trying to almost tell you something. Go ahead and make a wisdom check. Just a d20. Or no, make an insight. Make a straight insight. This is more of an insight roll here.
Marisha: Okay. Oh! 29.
Matt: You get the sense through the subtlety of physical motion and expression, Asum is telling you, just go with me on this. He steps back into the place next to the throne. There's a brief moment of pause. Uriel says, "And, Asum?" Asum goes, "My stance has not changed. I know not what she is attempting or thought the situation was, but it appears to me that this was either misinformation or at least at the time being, hopefully, not a lie. But I believe Brom has taken care of that, yes?" And Brom gives a nod. "I certainly have hoped to." Uriel goes, "Hm. All right. Here's the circumstance: as it stands, I fear I must revoke Vox Machina's membership in the council of Tal'Dorei until further notice, for the safety of our countryside and the current tension in our relationship."
Sam: Objection! That's it. I just wanted to say that. Please continue. I just want it noted that we object strongly to this.
Matt: "I understand. And this will only continue until all of our investigations are complete."
Sam: Are we still allowed free rein to roam about as we please? Are we under arrest for anything?
Matt: "You are not under arrest. You are revoked from the council, and you will be closely watched until our investigations are complete."
Laura: How long will your investigations take?
Matt: He looks back to Asum and Asum says, "Well, depends on how quickly we can acquire the information; it could be weeks. I'll do my best to make it thorough and quick."
Laura: Are we allowed to leave the city in that time?
Matt: Uriel looks back and says, "You may leave if you wish. Know that there have been precautions taken. Should you attempt to flee, we will find you."
Liam: And when are you to look into my mind?
Laura: Weirdo! (laughter)
Liam: It freaking ends here. Right away.
Travis: Can you read my mind?
Liam: There is no spoon.
Matt: "We ought to speak to the Lyceum to find a proper individual of sufficient power and trust to do this, as Allura right now is being kept out of the scenario."
Sam: Are we allowed to speak with Allura?
Matt: "If you wish. Outside of these chambers. Do what you must to clear your name. I would like very much for this all to be true, what you're saying. But do not flee. Do not give an inclination that you attempt to escape this judgment, for we will take that as a sign of guilt."
Liam: We've no intention of going anywhere.
Matt: "Should we conclude that your actions were beyond reason and the moral fiber of this council before your return, we will have no choice to put a bounty on your heads, should you not return. I really, really do not wish to do this. Do not make me do this."
Orion: I stand up. "No need for threats, friend. Are we done here?"
Matt: "I want to believe you all. I ask you, show that my trust has not been misplaced all this time. Now, you may leave."
Sam: I look forward to the second parade you'll throw for us after our names are cleared.
Matt: "Very well."
Travis: I turn to the guards that were grabbing at their weapons and I flex real fast at them and then I walk.
Matt: Four of them go, (yelps).
Travis: Bitch! (laughter)
Matt: As you guys go back out the doors that you entered, the guards now a little closely following as you exit, leading you out of the palace, down the front steps, and essentially stand at the front of the palace gates.
Liam: I'm sorry. I was just talking to one of your friends. Have you seen a belt that is shaped like a snake? Sometimes it moves around on its own. And it answers to the name Simon, but usually it's just a belt and looks really cool. Have you seen it? Is there a lost and found I can check out? It's very dear to me.
Matt: The guard just looks for a second and goes, "I think you've got more important matters to deal with before you go looking for a belt, sir."
Liam: Where's that other guy? He was more receptive to this. Do I see that other guy?
Laura: Darling. Seriously.
Matt: The guards all turn around and start ascending the stairs.
Liam: It's on all the fan art. It really makes sense to have it on me.
Matt: They don't appear to be listening.
Liam: Keep an eye out for it. 100 gold to any chap who finds it and holds onto it for me.
Matt: Two of them stop in their step for a second and then keep walking.
Liam: I'm a nice guy! (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and make a persuasion roll.
Travis: You're going to get six belts thrown at you.
Liam: That's terrible. Six.
Matt: It was a brief pause. But also. A brief pause.
Laura: You have a two in persuasion? Oh wow.
Sam: We'll break in tonight and find it.
Travis: Could we wait outside for Allura?
Liam: I'll risk it all.
Matt: All right. So you are now currently there in the cobblestone street of the Cloudtop District, removed from the Council of Tal'Dorei and left in this interesting circumstance.
Sam: Keyleth, what happened? Your magic didn't work?
Marisha: No, it worked.
Laura: What happened?
Sam: But Asum lied.
Orion: He gave her a magic winky face.
Marisha: Yeah, essentially. Yeah. He gave me like a--
Laura: What does that mean? Does that mean Uriel's under their control? I don't understand.
Liam: Is he playing some sort of long game here?
Sam: It must mean that we have something to fear from Uriel. Or someone else close.
Marisha: I don't know who to trust anymore, to be totally honest.
Travis: Really?
Marisha: It worked. I could feel it break. It worked, and he's got some sort of long game. I don't know if it's because he doesn't want Uriel to know, for whatever reason. I don't know if it's because he has some deeper, ulterior motive.
Laura: Do you think he was faking that he was healed, and maybe he wasn't?
Travis: Or maybe we have to bring proof of their vampirism back?
Marisha: No.
Travis: Oh.
Marisha: Wait. No to Vex. What was your question?
Travis: To bring back proof of them being vampires.
Sam: Proof would help. Hey! Don't we have a prisoner? Can't we question the prisoner?
Laura: Is he bleeding out? What if he's dead? We're so screwed!
Marisha: I made sure.
Laura: Yeah, the guy that Percy shot the hand off of.
Marisha: I cauterized his wounds, remember?
Sam: We should question him. He could have proof.
Laura: Oh shit! I hope everything's okay.
Orion: Wait a minute! I really need to go to Allura. She's our best interest right now.
Sam: We get it! You want her body. Now's not the time.
Orion: It is beyond that. There are several reasons to go. We need to get the Earring of Telescription. I need her to enchant something for me, too. As well as the fact I fear that our keep may be in danger. I would like to ask her if she may be able to set up a warding spell for--
Laura: Can you go get her and bring her to the keep? I need to find out if this boy is all right.
Marisha: Well, we can split up. I can go with you.
Matt: As you guys are having this discussion, the palace doors open and you hear the quick footsteps of Allura, rushing from the palace now, running towards you guys.
Laura: Saving the day. Again.
Marisha: Wait, she's coming out of the palace?
Matt: She's coming out of the palace, behind you guys. Like after the council had just closed. The meeting had finished. She basically gave chase to you guys and is now catching up to you on the street.
Sam: What the shit happened in there?
Marisha: We were just talking about you!
Matt: "Everyone-- I don't fully know what happened last night, and--" She looks to you, Tiberius, and says, "You didn't, did you? Please tell me you did not kill that woman."
Orion: Oh, I absolutely did!
Laura: But she was attacking us.
Sam: It looks bad, but she was a threat.
Orion: Her and another one with this-- what was he, a tiefling? Named the Broker attacked us. And that's why I killed her.
Matt: "Brom's divination is very clear. And he divined that the woman was currently filled with fear, attempting to flee, and unconscious when she was murdered."
Liam: How did she flee when she was unconscious?
Travis: She fled, went unconscious, then we butchered her.
Marisha: Just accept it for what it is, guys.
Matt: "I just worry. I know not what happened here, and I heard what you said, and I honestly do not trust the Briarwoods myself either. There was something about that meal and the conversation, and their presence that put me off entirely. It was strange. And what you say makes a lot of sense. Vampirism is a bit beyond what I was expecting. I did sense some powerful masqueraded arcane essence from Lady Briarwood. Look, I would recommend for this to do your best to be thorough in this. Bring back any and all information you can. From the words I hear, you probably have at best a few weeks before this comes to a close. And if you don't have enough evidence to support your argument-- well, I don't know."
Liam: Allura, all I know how to do is break locks, but I've seen these people do things with magic that have defied expectations. Why can no one look into my memory? You have looked across miles. Cannot anyone look into my mind and see?
Laura: They're going to do it!
Sam: Yes, but that might not be proof enough for them. Someone could have corrupted your mind.
Matt: "You have to understand. Not all arcane works that way. There are magics that can dabble in that realm, but none that specialize that here in Emon. Divination, yes there are elements of that. We can see the physical. We can see certain events. But to look into one's mind is a different magic entirely."
Liam: Are there no spells that can divine if someone's speaking true?
Matt: "That was attempted during that council, but after you left, Brom notified Uriel and the Council that many of you were resistant to the spell, and as such, it could not be verified."
Laura: (laughs) We should have rolled low! Just tell us you're doing it, we won't resist it! What the shit? Doesn't even trust us to tell the truth.
Travis: If we came back with proof?
Sam: What sort of proof do you think they would accept? The head of Lady Briarwood?
Laura: No, because it'll disappear the minute we kill her or something. They're vampires, I don't know what they do.
Matt: She gives a thought to that. She goes, "Interestingly enough, if an artifact or an item brought forth from them could be divined, that should tell all."
Marisha: Is there still the remaining wreckage of their carriage? Is that still there?
Matt: "The carriage has been disposed. It's been picked over, and there were remnants within the rubble of some sort of a 'siggle' of teleportation. But that is no-- a sigil, if you will." (laughter)
Travis: What sort of artifact? Like, a brooch? A handbag?
Liam: Are we talking about that motherfucker's teeth?
Orion: I need to see that sigil.
Matt: "Sigil. We're all learning together. That, I believe, has all been investigated and kept under lock and key with Asum. You would have to speak with him. I would like to help. I cannot come with you. I'm working on something else at the moment. Ah!" And she reaches into her pocket and brings out your Earring of Transcription.
Orion: Thank you so much, Lady Allura!
Matt: As she hands it to you, she gives you a really, really concerned look. And just gives it to you and hands it back. And it's a look of-- and it hits you: it's a look of disappointment with a hint of heartbreak.
Travis: Oh, that's the worst! I'm not angry, I'm just disappointed. Ugh!
Liam: I feel like I've failed you.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: She looks back to you as you take it and goes, "Do your best to clear your name."
Orion: I shall.
Matt: "I know you come of noble blood, and many of you stand to inspire many others of noble blood. As celebrated heroes of this city, there is a lot more on the line here besides just your well-being. There's a lot of people in this town that look up to you. Nevertheless, I've already said more than I should. Good luck."
Laura: Thank you, Allura.
Matt: She looks behind and you can see she takes this small hood of the same material of her robe that she's wearing and puts it up over her head and rushes off towards her white tower towards the edge of the Cloudtop District.
Liam: Fucking politics.
Sam: No one insight checked her.
Travis: She's telling the truth. Let's go make sure the prisoner isn't dead.
Sam: All right. So wait. What are our avenues? We're going to have to Columbo this. What are our avenues of finding proof?
Laura: We say as we're walking back to the keep.
Sam: We have a prisoner we can question. Who knows if that will yield anything. And then, we might have to go gather evidence, which means leaving town against his word.
Laura: Well, we're allowed to leave town.
Liam: No!
Sam: No!
Laura: Yeah! No! He said we're allowed to leave. We just can't look like we're fleeing, so we tell them where we're going. They can even fucking follow us. I don't care.
Liam: So we tell them that we're going to their political-- the people that they're trying to create a political relationship with? We're just going off to invade your political allies.
Travis: Oh come on! You half-elves. I swear to god! Have you never heard of lying before? Yeah! We don't tell them where we're going. We're going on a field trip. We're going to pick berries. Fuck all, but we go there.
Orion: The only way we can go there is telling them.
Travis: What? And we're going there, what for?
Orion: When I talk to Asum and get that sigil to that damn Briarwood keep. That's how we get there.
Travis: Why don't we say we're taking a picnic-- oh, we took a wrong turn. Hey, it's the Briarwoods!
Orion: We don't have to lie to them. We tell them where we're going, and we can just go there.
Travis: We don't have to if we don't want to.
Liam: You're pretty.
Laura: Especially that beardy side, Grog.
Travis: It's a full beard right now.
Matt: What you do know is the sigil that a teleportation circle is attached to is known when you cast or create the circle. The circle does not necessarily indicate or maintain the sigil it's attached to.
Orion: It's just a piece of it?
Matt: Meaning, there are two parts to it. There is the sigil that it sends to, and there is the actual ritual circle that is created. The circle that attaches to it is not the same as the destination. There are elements of it that connect it, but you would not be able to ascertain a sigil to Whitestone immediately from looking at the initial circle.
Liam: Thanks for the cups, guys! The cup.
Travis: I just noticed that!
Liam: Well, let's go check on this poor little shit in the dungeon.
Sam: And then the next step will be to seek out Seeker Asum?
Orion: I'd like to stop by the temple real quick to pick up my decanter.
Sam: How many errands do you have to run?
Laura: Endless errands.
Sam: All right. Go run your errands! We've got a mystery to solve.
Travis: Yeah, I want to be there when we talk to the prisoner, too.
Matt: Okay. You guys make your way back to Greyskull Keep. Are you going with them or you're--
Orion: I'm doing all the shit.
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: He's got a list.
Matt: I would like to know the list.
Orion: I'm going to stop at an armory because I want my crossbow reinforced. I don't know what that means. I want to learn a different sigil. The one that I researched for the waste fair, or for the way-- the Feywild! There's this big city next to it that I researched, that is near it, and in that city might be a sigil. So I'm going to go see if I can learn it. And then I want to come back and start enchanting my blades.
Sam: It's a busy day.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: I can give it to you. I wrote it down.
Sam: Coming soon on Friday nights  The Adventures of Tiberius's Errands! 7:00 to 10:00 every Friday night on Twitch.
Orion: And then I have to go to the dry cleaners for my robe.
Matt: All right. So as you begin that process, the rest of you continue back to the Keep. As you approach Greyskull Keep, there are two individuals waiting for you at the gate that you do not recognize from a distance.
Sam: Wait, what? Say that again.
Matt: There's two individuals waiting for you at the gate. You can see at a distance, but you don't recognize.
Sam: They're our handlers, probably.
Liam: Grog, come on. Let's go have a talk with someone.
Laura: I walk with you.
Sam: We're all going!
Liam: Let's go arm in arm in one big line!
Laura: Well, they're right at our fucking keep. It's not like we're all headed in the same direction, anyway.
Orion: Who doesn't have a ring?
Sam: A ring of what?
Orion: An earring.
Marisha: I have one right now.
Sam: I think I do?
Laura: I have one.
Liam: I have one.
Laura: Grog doesn't have one.
Travis: How far away from the keep are we?
Matt: You're probably a good 100 to 150 feet.
Travis: I whistle really loud and say, who are these fucks in front of the keep? to the guard that we have employed.
Matt: Okay. So. Let me try and see who's on duty right now.
Laura: He has notes on who is on duty.
Matt: This would still be Shayne and Cordell. Cordell shouts down from the top of the wall and says, "I don't think they're a threat."
Travis: Right. We'll be the judge of that. As you were.
Sam: Grog, keep in mind, these are our allies.
Laura: Hello!
Matt: As you walk up and you get close, you get a better view. You're expecting ominous, armored guards. Somebody possibly assigned to escort you. Instead, you're greeted by what looks to be an older couple waiting at the gate. A man and a woman, dressed in simple clothes, weathered skin. And as you go out to them, they both smile.
Sam: We hate old people. (laughter)
Laura: Who are you?
Travis: Favored enemy!
Matt: They begin walking up, and the man steps forward. You can see he's got small dirty glasses at the end of his nose and says, "Hello, hello! Good afternoon, everyone! I'm sorry to be a bother. But unless my eyes and tales do deceive me, might you all be the heroes known as Vox Machina?"
Laura: Can I insight check to see if these guys are legit?
Sam: Legit what? Old people?
Laura: It could be Lord and Lady Briarwood, for all I know!
Liam: Me too. I did well. I rolled 18 on them.
Matt: Okay. From what you can tell, they are both happy, simple folk that are here with a tension of purpose, but nothing that seems to set off any alarms.
Sam: We are Vox Machina. I'm sure word of us has spread far and wide. We're a pretty big deal. Why have you made this journey to us?
Matt: The woman, who's holding his side, lets go of his arm and says, "We come to you humbly as representatives of the farming community just north of Emon's walls."
Marisha: Oh, I love farmers!
Matt: "I am Riley Klaus and this is my husband, Ben." "Pleasure to meet y'all."
Laura: Hi.
Matt: "You see, many of us here, we make our living through livestock and small crops." Ben takes over at this point and says, "Word is that the Sovereign will be calling down troops from Fort Daxio for a while, so the need for meats and fresh produce has been elevated." The wife, Riley, then says, "Around this time, over the past two weeks, a number of our finest cows and sheep have gone missing. No struggle or mess or signs of dire wolves. Nothing! We suspected thieves, initially, but we sent up our neighbor's boy Kyle to watch over them until sunrise and he saw the culprit. From what he described, a giant bird, larger than anything he's ever seen or heard of." Ben then takes over the conversation, "Wings at least ten carts long, tip to tip. Just swooped down, he said, without sound and in one motion snatched up one of our most virile bulls. Mr. Simms, just gone like that!"
Marisha: Mr. Simms?
Matt: "That was the bull." Riley says, "Kyle said he saw it fly northwest."
Marisha: Northwest? Can I do a nature check to see if I can recognize the creature he's describing?
Liam: Are we certain he's not describing a dragon?
Marisha: 26.
Matt: 26. You've seen some big birds in your time. This is, from what they're describing, a lot bigger than any birds you've encountered in your experience. You've heard whispers of larger birds in the wild, but you've never seen anything like that. You haven't had any personal experience hearing or seeing anything of this size.
Marisha: But it is a bird?
Matt: That's what they described it as. At night.
Laura: When did these birds start showing up?
Matt: "About two weeks ago when the whole thing started to happen." And then Ben kicks in and says, "Should this keep up, most of us will lose everything before the year is out. Now, we've talked with the leaders of the farming community this side of Emon. We've scrounged up what we could." And he brings up a couple of coin purses and she goes, "512 gold pieces, 37 silver, and 103 copper. That's all we can spare."
Laura: Keep your money.
Marisha: Yes, keep your money.
Matt: "We can't possibly--"
Liam: What about this? What if you supplied us with a small stream of produce for our servants here at the keep? For cooking, for feeding them, for feeding us when we're here? It'll be a sight less than 500; it wouldn't be nothing. You could still give us something.
Matt: "Yes! We could, we'd be more than happy to!"
Sam: However, despite what my companion is saying, we are not agreeing to go after this winged beast quite yet. We hear your plight, and we sympathize, and we will do what we can, but we have very pressing matters right now. Is there a deadline of some sort? When is your next harvesting season?
Matt: "I mean, there's no deadline, but the longer that goes by, the more and more we lose by the night. Two weeks in and we've lost half of our livestock. If the creature is this big, I imagine it eats quite a bit."
Laura: And how long of a ride is it? Is it walking distance?
Matt: "To... where?"
Laura: To your farm.
Liam: To your farm.
Sam: To your farm.
Matt: "North side of Emon."
Laura: Oh, so real close!
Matt: "Yes."
Sam: We are friends of the elderly, obviously, and also of the farming community, so we are very interested in helping you. May we talk about it a bit before we decide how and when we would tackle this problem?
Matt: They look at each other and nod and he taps her hand and says, "Yes. By all means-- If you could, please help us stop this beast from ruining our livelihood."
Marisha: And can you please tell us how to get to your place. Do you normally stay there? Are you normally home?
Matt: "We wander about the community, but we do have a homestead. If you look, it's the large red wood and partially brick-based homestead closest to the city walls, on the north farm. Right outside of Emon. It's hard to miss, if you're headed that direction."
Liam: Quickly. Presently, we will find you. Guys, we were told to sit and spin basically. I mean, what's wrong with earning some brownie points in the eyes of Uriel?
Travis: Mr. and Mrs. Kraut, as friends of the elderly--
Matt: "Klaus."
Travis: Right, Kraut. Do they normally come at night, or have they ever abducted any of your sweet bulls during the day?
Matt: "We've not seen it during the day. It'd be easier for us to identify if we had. Seems to only hunt at night."
Sam: And have they ever messed with a human?
Matt: "Not that we've heard of. Not yet." He gives you this sudden look of realization and fear. And pats and comforts his wife who suddenly realizes, oh my. Are they going to take us now?
Marisha: We'll probably be by like tonight or tomorrow morning.
Liam: Yes. Tomorrow morning at the latest. We have a little bit of business. Yeah.
Marisha: So we're in the middle of doing something. We'll get to it.
Matt: "All right. Well, thank you."
Liam: I take him by the hand and say, we will see you presently.
Sam: Here. My business card.
Liam: And you can take that to the bank.
Laura: You can't actually; it's worth nothing.
Matt: "Well, thank you for listening to us ramble on, and we look forward to hearing from you in the next day."
Laura: You will.
Matt: "All right." He pats her on the arm.
Travis: Travel safe, Mr. Kraut!
Liam: Hide your bull; hide your wife.
Matt: They both wander off.
Laura: We are in danger of being ostracized. We should really be nice to everybody right now.
Sam: We were just having a conversation about how we should try to be nice from now on. But we do have very pressing matters.
Travis: Yeah, let's get fucking in there and talk to that little--
Marisha: It's funny how that type of thing can come back to bite you in the ass.
Sam: I call up to Cordell. Oi, Cordell!
Matt: "Yeah!"
Sam: Remember when I told you not to let anyone linger outside the keep?
Matt: "To be fair, the Klauses are well-known in the community."
Travis: The Krauts?
Laura: The Klauses.
Matt: "They came here for business. I figured it was probably something you'd want to hear. I apologize."
Sam: By all means, use your judgment over the orders of your master. That's fine.
Marisha: Scanlan!
Matt: Cordell bows his head sheepishly. "I apologize. I'm sorry."
Marisha: Ignore him!
Laura: We are here to help people! We're here to help.
Matt: He does his finger like this and the gates open in towards the inside of the keep wall.
Marisha: And what is wrong with you all today?!
Sam: We had a really bad dinner last night. That's all.
Laura: I head straight to the jail.
Marisha: I follow.
Matt: As you guys are doing that, Tiberius, what's the first thing you're trying to do?
Orion: Stop by and pick up the decanter from the temple.
Matt: Okay. He said it required two days. It's been less than a day since you dropped it off, just so you're aware.
Orion: Then the only thing I do is visit the keep with the sigils library or whatever.
Matt: Oh, the Lyceum? Okay.
Liam: I'm not going. I'm just going to go hang out up on the wall outside the keep.
Matt: All right. As you head to the Lyceum, the clerk lets you in. What are you specifically looking to find or research?
Orion: The sigil that's closest to the Feywild.
Matt: Okay. In researching what they have at their disposal, you understand that the Feywild itself, because it is a separate plane, the magics to traverse it are a little more difficult to do. If you notice-- and I'll confirm here just to be sure that we're on the same page-- before I go full on this here. Pardon me, just a moment while I scan through the book. The mighty book. The book of might. Yes. Sigils of teleportation require the same plane of existence, meaning you can teleport anywhere within the Prime Material Plane that you exist in. To traverse into the Feywild, you have to actually find a door into the Feywild, and then you would be able to use a sigil from the Feywild.
Orion: Then I only pick up my decanter.
Matt: Which is not ready yet.
Orion: I don't do that! Damn, I forgot! My short-term memory is just jacked!
Matt: It's all good. It's all good.
Travis: You know, somebody's been to the Feywild.
Matt: Yeah. The Feywild. What you do find is that the Feywild-- the boundaries between this realm and the Feywild tend to grow weaker at full moons. It's tied to the moon cycle. And at certain places where nature is set to run wild. A lot of druidic tribes tend to mark these locations, and in some cases actually guard them.
Laura: We know where a hole in one is. Grog went through it.
Matt: And if you recall-- good memory-- in the Frostweald, the partially frozen forest where you had that conversation with the nymph-- that portal that she existed through was specifically a door into the Feywild, which you recognized.
Orion: What city was that near?
Matt: That was south of Westruun.
Orion: Then I'll go to the thing and I'll find the Westruun sigil.
Matt: Okay. Through your research, you do find a sigil to Westruun. This is allowing you to go into this portion for this sigil because you've already used the favor that you had to get the sigil of Kraghammer.
Orion: No, I didn't. I used the amulet and we got permission to come there. I saved that favor for this.
Matt: Right, the favor for Gilmore. All I'm saying is, you've used one of two favors to get that sigil. You have to invoke Gilmore's favor to get this one. Okay. And since you're a part of the circumstance, you acquire the secondary sigil. You now know, in your memory permanently, a sigil to Westruun. You don't know where in Westruun, but you are connected there. If you choose to teleport there, you know how to. That favor has now been used by Gilmore, so you can mark that. And on that note, we're going to go ahead and take a five minute rest break. So yeah, restroom, snacks, drinks and we'll be back here in about five or so minutes. We'll see you guys and continue this tense adventure. [break]
Matt: Welcome back. We've had our break; we've returned to the table. A quick note, we are 50 subscribers away from our next giveaway.
Travis: 50? Come on!
Matt: If we can get there, that'd be awesome! We'll have our giveaway-- the signed cast Critical Role photo and the cast signed art poster by Kit Buss.
Sam: Kit Buss, ladies and gentlemen!
Matt: Yeah! So you have all returned to the keep. You have found yourselves down to the basement area. You hear the distant pinging of metal, an occasional squeaking metallic noise. Like something is being altered, turned, or quenched in a water trough. Like the process of blacksmithing.
Marisha: I go to the edge of the door and knock.
Matt: As you knock on the metal door, it's like a (boom). The pinging stops. Just hangs for a second.
Marisha: Percy? It's Keyleth.
Matt: "Not right now. Please. I'm sorry. I just need to clear my head."
Marisha: Okay. We'll be here.
Matt: A moment later, you see Percy's eyes appear at the edge of the door.
Marisha: Hi!
Matt: Just looking at them, you can see they look a little sunken, a little weary.
Marisha: Did you sleep?
Matt: "Not as much as I'd like."
Marisha: Do you need anything?
Matt: His eyes look away for a second, looks back at you. "I'm all right. Thank you."
Marisha: We went and saw Uriel. Everyone in the city hates us. They think we're all criminals.
Matt: "Great. I have to get back to my work."
Marisha: Okay, yeah.
Matt: The slit shuts.
Marisha: Oh, we'll see you later, then.
Matt: You guys, however, walk down to the other side of the cell. The cell door's been closed. The keys are hanging on the nail by it. You have not used the cell until this point. It's technically pristine and unused since the construction of the keep, but the keys still hang on the key ring. On the inside of it, there is no thatch. Nothing has been put in to really make a comfortable floor. And hanging from manacles--
Laura: He's hanging?!
Sam: We're the worst.
Matt: He was put in as a prisoner.
Laura: I go and get the keys, and I take him down from the manacles.
Matt: As she rushes into the cell, begins unlocking the manacles. He's unconscious at this time. Dirt streaked on his face and spatters of dried blood from the blast of the gun.
Marisha: I go ahead and I administer Cure Wounds.
Matt: The wound at this point has been cauterized. You cast Cure Wounds as he starts to come to consciousness, in a heap on the ground. (coughs) It appears he may be healed of any damage he may still be sustaining from that, but the fingers are gone. This is beyond the magic you're capable of. He comes to consciousness on the ground, dirtied, sore. Essentially broken before you.
Laura: Does he look like he's been bitten at all?
Matt: You want to inspect?
Laura: Can I look at his neck?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Laura: 20.
Matt: Okay. You don't have a whole lot of medicinal experience, but you take a moment and inspect both sides of his neck, tilting his head side-to-side, as he's groaning and coming to. "What's going on?" Looking at the sides of his neck, there does not appear to be any sign of any puncture wounds, anything that would be reminiscent of what your brother currently is healing from.
Marisha: Can I do an insight check to see if he is also under a mind-control spell?
Matt: At the moment, no. He is barely coming to consciousness. There isn't enough of a presence at the moment to really read past.
Laura: Hey, there. Welcome back.
Matt: "Where am I?"
Laura: You are being held, at the moment, for your own safety.
Matt: "For my own safety?"
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: "How?" He looks at his hand.
Laura: Well, you were captured. We're pretty sure the Briarwoods are going to be pissed as hell that you let the carriage get hit. We're just trying to protect you, really.
Marisha: Really?
Sam: I mean, his friends all died, so.
Marisha: Do we not feel like terrible people enough already?
Sam: Let's not have this conversation in front of the prisoner. What's your name, boy!
Matt: "My name is Desmond. Desmond Otham. I am the son of a messenger, a courier of the de Rolo family."
Marisha: He's the son of a messenger! That's even more ironic!
Laura: Keyleth, do you need to step outside?
Marisha: No, I'm good. Continue. Son of a messenger.
Laura: Right now, everyone is at risk. The Briarwoods are bad people, you can attest to this, yes?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: Yes. Can you tell us everything you know about them?
Matt: "It's not going to matter. They're going to find me. No one's supposed to get away."
Laura: You did!
Travis: There's always a first time.
Matt: "I don't even know where to begin." He adjusts himself, sliding back, putting his back against the wall of the cell.
Travis: I reach into the Bag of Holding. I pull out the little goblet, and I pour some ale into a cup, and I hand him a little bit of ale. No, it's fine. I take a little sip.
Matt: "Please don't take offense if I don't trust a drink from strangers who've, well, to be honest, put me in this position."
Travis: All right. I put it beside him.
Matt: "What do you want to know?"
Laura: We want to know if the Briarwoods--
Sam: Are vampires.
Laura: Pretty much. They're vampires, right? I mean, they're vampires.
Matt: "All I know from the stories I've heard. Mothers would tell their kids not to wander out at night because dark things crawl in the shadows. From what I know of vampires, they're not supposed to go out during the day, right? But I'm sure I've seen Lady Briarwood walk in the sun many a time."
Marisha: Only Lady Briarwood?
Matt: "As I recall, yes. Lord Briarwood doesn't make too many public appearances."
Sam: Have there been any strange goings-on in their residence? Sounds you've heard? People disappearing? Boxes coming in or out?
Laura: I cast Cure Wounds on him. I know Cure Wounds, bitches! Level up!
Orion: Have I reached the keep yet?
Matt: No, not yet. You're probably about an hour away, at this point. From the time you've taken to research, find this, learn the sigil to Westruun, and begin your trek back. Fortunately, you got what you wanted, but you're out of the picture for a little bit. He flinches as you put your hand up, and as you touch him, he exhales. You get to him just as he can react, briefly.
Laura: 11. Do I add anything to that?
Matt: I believe you add your Wisdom modifier to that.
Laura: 14.
Matt: He goes, "Look, my father worked for the de Rolo family before the Briarwoods came. My father vanished the night of their fall. My mother was taken in madness and lost to the night this past year. I was left alone. However, I knew the roads well between here and Whitestone and places between, growing up, traveling with my father. So I was made to be a coachman for the new nobles. I was paid, albeit little, and I was left alone. Now, when I say the new nobles, there were nobles that lived in Whitestone and worked along with the de Rolos, and they helped oversee parts of the town, the business, and the people. They had been there for many generations of their respective families, all under the de Rolos' guidance. But the night the castle fell, those nobles were dragged out. It's strange. I mean, after the brutality of that first night, it took days before the people of Whitestone knew what had happened. We saw the fires, we heard the battles, but no word of the victors until three days had passed. We were too scared to approach. By then, the Briarwoods called a town meeting. They explained their new rule over the town. A number objected, which is expected. Many strong-willed folk in Whitestone, those days. They were subsequently shot down at arrow-point. The rest were quiet. They then dragged out the noble families and executed them, gifting their property and titles to the various cut-throats and mercenaries they had hired, brought across the channel to help them take the town. They're not just two people; they've used a lot of money and influence from wherever they came from and brought a whole slew of very dastardly folk, who have since been given the titles once held by the other nobles of Whitestone, living in their homes, taking their tithes and most of the profits made from the businesses they've forced us to continue to run from within the city. A number of families fled into the woods the night after the executions, using the shadows of a moonless evening to keep safe. They were all found hanging from the Sun Tree the next morning. They kept things going as they were, mostly: farming, logging, manning the white marble mines. Business went as usual, all filling the pockets of the new nobles and the Briarwoods. We were given food, kept our immediate property. As long as we didn't attempt to leave, we were promised safety. That lasted for a few years, until the nobles grew bored. Twitchy. They began to abuse the people of Whitestone: scare us for fun, brand, cut, steal the children, leave them back, destroyed. They treat us like animals. Folks went missing. I was beaten so bad by my employer, Count Tylieri. But Lord Briarwood noticed, one night he was passing through the city. He saw wounds on my back when he was meeting with Count Tylieri. When he asked me in private how I got them, I couldn't lie. Couldn't resist him. He has a way of drawing the truth out of you. Now, he told me this unrefined violence was boorish to him and his wife. That was the last I ever saw of Lord Tylieri. Lord and Lady Briarwood took me in as their own driver and showed me Tylieri hanging from that same Sun Tree the next morning. I was thankful, then. In a strange way, life had been so terrible for so long, it was the first time I saw someone reach out and save me. They took me in as their driver after that. It was a better thing to be away from the anger and the fists of the thugs. But the more I got to know the Briarwoods, the more nightmarish I realized they were. Behind the walls of that castle was no longer a grand fortress that we heard it was. Seeing it, keeping watch and guard over our people. No, that was a domain of perverse magics and sacrilege, it was. The green fog drifting out from the ground where it stood. The same servants still run the halls, but they aren't living. They're walking vessels of undeath, their flesh slowly tearing away. The garden in back lies shriveled, a foul green mist forever pouring out. They're excavating something in the dungeon, plundering pieces. A lot of their attention seems to be down there; I don't know why. I dare not wander too far down. They bring up old things. Ancient things. Relics, books, bones. You live in that world long enough, you believe there is no way out. Death would be easy, though I've seen that death is no real end there. It's just the beginning of a whole new terrible existence. A far worse fate."
Laura: If we keep you here, protected, would you be willing to tell your story to someone else?
Matt: "Who would you want me to tell it to?"
Laura: The emperor. The guards here. An army that could go and fight the Briarwoods.
Matt: "Maybe."
Marisha: This could be an option to save Whitestone, and you would have your freedom.
Matt: "I don't know. You don't know what it's like. You don't know what they've done. They're going to find me."
Sam: We can protect you. We are safe here in this keep, and you're surrounded by very powerful allies now.
Travis: We've stood before them, and we did not fall.
Laura: It's true.
Matt: "I'll think about it."
Marisha: Would you like to stay in the guest room upstairs? You'd be more comfortable. You could get a good night's rest.
Laura: Far more comfortable. A little less safe. I'm going to put it out there.
Matt: That resonates with him immediately, and his eyes flash open. "I mean no disrespect, but if this is safe, then I'd rather stay here."
Laura: I think it is. And we will bring a bed down to you, make sure you're comfortable. I don't want you sleeping on the floor. That's terrible.
Matt: "You're all being very accommodating."
Travis: You'll get every consideration for protection. We value your info very much.
Marisha: You're also the key to our own freedom, so it's important.
Sam: You also caught us on a day where we're trying to be nicer to people. (laughter)
Sam: Lucky for you.
Liam: Just be glad you're not an old woman.
Matt: "I'll stay here for now."
Laura: All right.
Matt: "I need to think on it. I've been promised such protection before."
Sam: From the Briarwoods?
Matt: "From a few. And they're dead. An enemy of an enemy doesn't necessarily make them a friend, I've discovered."
Marisha: No, but it can make them allies if they have mutual enemies. Of their enemies. It's a little complicated.
Matt: This whole conversation, the emotional recalling of everything, you can see has been very taxing on him and his still mostly conscious state. He looks exhausted, scared, and still trying to suss out all the information coming at him right now.
Marisha: Grog, why don't you carry the bed down from upstairs?
Travis: Not a problem. Keep the goblet nearby. It is very nice ale.
Marisha: Would you like something to eat?
Matt: "Yes, please."
Marisha: We'll have our staff bring down some food.
Matt: He takes the goblet. He looks at it, smells it, but still holds it at bay as you walk off. You eventually go-- easy enough for you-- take the bed. You have to turn it to the side to take it out, which causes all of the cushions to fall out.
Travis: Aw, shit. (laughter)
Travis: I grab a little pillow with my toes, and I hobble down.
Matt: It takes about 20 minutes and three trips, but you manage to get the bed down there from the guest room.
Travis: Not a problem.
Matt: When you fit it in the cell-- and it's not a large cell; it's maybe ten by ten feet maximum. You place it there. As you guys walk back, you notice as you see Grog walking back down the stairway-- right around the corner as you go down the steps, the hallway goes to the cell, and it turns to the right and to the left to the workshop. You see around the corner a shoulder, listening in. There's a person. And you recognize that it is Percy. Percy has stepped out of the workshop and apparently has been hearing everything this entire time.
Laura: Are you all right?
Matt: "I'm fine." And Percy immediately steps away and you hear the door close with a slam.
Laura: Give him time.
Sam: So moody!
Laura: So yeah, I'm going to lock it. I'm just going to lock your door. To make sure you're safe, make sure nobody can get in.
Matt: "Keep him away from me. Who is that?"
Sam: He's a friend. I know it doesn't seem like it from the condition of your paw, but he's a friend. He's in the same boat as you, trying to stay safe from danger.
Laura: The Briarwoods destroyed his family, as well.
Matt: And you see now, there's like this look of tension on his face that's mixed with tired. And eventually finding the bed and takes the goblet-- still filled, has not drunk from it-- just slips it next to the side of the bed. Eventually food is brought down.
Laura: And a chamber pot, because come on!
Matt: All the basic pleasantries are brought within the cell. He lies on the bed and takes the plate up with him and starts just scarfing some of the bread rolls down. And immediately starts going for the mashed potatoes. You can see a decent meal hasn't been had in quite a while. Especially the journey, what is essentially a seven to eight day journey from Whitestone, probably has not been very kind to him. Eats and then promptly passes out on the bed. Food still mashed on the side of the face. Just goes straight into a slumber.
Travis: Is there any other entrance to the cell area besides the door? No barred windows or anything like that?
Matt: No. It's underground. It's all solid, solid stone walls. And there is the barred front door, and then just goes right into the hallway that goes up the stairs to your left and across the way and around the corner to the workshop.
Travis: You can't cast any kind of alarm system? A trigger?
Laura: So that Percy can't get anything through there?
Marisha: Let me reference my spell tome. It's not a common one. It's situational. But let me check real quick. I haven't read that chapter from my book in a while.
Orion: Is Allura on the way back from the Lyceum?
Matt: No, the Lyceum is in the Erudite District. Allura's tower is in the Cloudtop, which is the central part of Emon.
Laura: I do want to go check out that bird creature at the farmhouse tonight.
Sam: Yes. Well, have we stationed a guard down there?
Travis: We should. We have five or six.
Sam: All right. I'll go talk to Cordell. That's his name, right?
Travis: No, not Cordell. Let's get somebody else.
Laura: Get the crossbow guy that we like so much. The guy that's the captain of the guards.
Sam: Is that Kendrick? Or Shayne? Oh, the girl?
Laura: No, the guy. He's awesome and he's an archer, as well.
Sam: Jarett?
Laura: Jarett. That's it!
Sam: All right, we'll get Jarett. Oh, Jarett?
Matt: You make your way to the back part of the wall, and there is a small tower that's constructed as part of the back wall. That's where Jarett usually keeps watch. Jarett has the in-between shift between the guards, so he can be present for both sides and keep a watch during the afternoon until the nighttime. Probably till about midnight or so. So as you make your way out of the keep, Tiberius, are you heading back to the keep or are you heading toward the Cloudtop District? This will dictate whether or not you show up around this time.
Orion: I'm going to Allura's.
Laura: I'm staying down in the prison, just for the time being. I don't want to leave him alone with Percy.
Matt: You go to find Jarett, who's up at the top of the tower. And as you call to him, Jarett leans over. And you see him, you know, short jet-black hair, darker complexion. Very handsome, younger, early-twenties guy. Well-dressed over his studded leather armor that he wears underneath and has the crossbow on the side. He leans over. "Scanlan, it has been some time. It is so good to hear from you. What can I be of service for?"
Sam: We need you to watch a prisoner for us, downstairs in our jail cell, which we had built and are now using. You'll be guarding the prisoner to make sure he doesn't escape, but also making sure he stays safe. He possesses information that's very valuable to us. And one of the people who hires you might try to kill him, so if Percy tries to go in there, can you stop him without hurting either party?
Matt: "I imagine this would be very well-suited for my skill set. It will be strange to keep watch against one of my employers, but he's been a bit sheepish around me anyway."
Sam: You think you could take Percy?
Matt: "Well, I think I can at least talk some sense into him!"
Travis: I like him!
Sam: Wow! Jarett, you're ballsy! Just out of curiosity, if he was running at you, what would you do? (laughter)
Matt: "Well, first and foremost, I would dive in the forward motion, leg out, to put him off balance. This would be from a frontal melee-- you're messing with me, aren't you?"
Sam: A little bit!
Matt: "Ah, gnomes! Very well."
Sam: Do you need anything to help?
Matt: "I have access to my own private armory, and I have utmost faith."
Sam: All right. Well, keep him safe and there's an extra five gold in it for you?
Laura: Oh! Pathetic!
Sam: I don't know! Ten! Ten gold!
Matt: "Gnomes."
Sam: I don't know how money works. We'll talk to Vex about it.
Matt: "Certainly. All right. I will do this." And he stands up, and goes and starts gathering his general setup supplies inside the guard tower. As you walk back to the keep, you hear him whistle and start calling out to Shayne to go ahead and take over, up in the tower.
Liam: I wasn't there for any of that. I was upstairs on the roof, just thinking.
Matt: Tiberius, you make your way into the Cloudtop District. As you come to the front gates of the district, the guards that normally recognize you and welcome you in, recognize you and stand firm, weapons at the ready.
Orion: At Allura's tower?
Matt: At the Cloudtop District entirely. You guys had to get written permission to enter there when you first came to Emon, anyway, since that's where the nobility and many of the important figures of Emon reside. It appears that since you've been taken out of the Council and you're under investigation, your access to such a sensitive location within Emon has been temporarily revoked, and the guards are not letting you through.
Orion: Is that it? So I just turn around? Go back?
Matt: It's up to you. The guards are just there, standing.
Orion: Greeting and salutations. I'm Tiberius Stormwind from Draconia. Moreover, a member of Vox Machina, over at Greyskull Keep. It seems that you all are posturing and whatnot. (chuckles) It's adorable. But I'm here to see Lady Allura. Could you let her know that I would like to speak to her, or get out of my way so I can just go over there and tell her myself?
Matt: "We have direct orders to not let you or any other member of Vox Machina into the Cloudtop District until your investigation is complete. So no, and no."
Orion: Well, do the second thing. If you don't do one thing, do one of the other things.
Matt: "Your information and wish has been processed, taken into consideration. Thank you very much. Please be on your way."
Orion: Oh, it has been, it has been processed! Oh, that's good to know! I appreciate that. Very well. I cast Fly on myself and I go back to the keep.
Matt: Okay. (whoosh) They both did not expect that exit. You essentially Superman-ed. You're just like (thud). Little cloud of smoke in the shape of a dragonborn left behind. All right. So as you cruise over, you see in the distance, from where you're standing at the top of the keep, you see a distant bead of dark shadow that approaches and grows larger, and it is an air-cruising Tiberius making his way towards the keep.
Liam: I hide behind-- I don't want to get hit, so I'm going to crouch down a little bit, carefully behind one of the pieces of wall. Yeah. Rough landings, sometimes.
Orion: I fly in. Vox Machina!
Liam: Easy. Be careful.
Orion: Sorry. Hi. What are you doing? Are you up here thinking?
Liam: Why, I suppose I was. The others are downstairs interrogating that boy. Where have you been?
Orion: Off doing things that wasn't really that productive, overall, but they don't like me anywhere, especially now.
Liam: Do you want to have a drink?
Orion: Yes, actually, I do.
Liam: I've got a flask. You normally drink water. You want a shot, though?
Orion: Yes, I would love some alcohol. This calls for alcohol.
Liam: I pull out my flask, and I'm amazed, because I've never seen this and I hand it over to him.
Orion: Oh yes. (whoosh)
Sam: Did you eat the flask?
Orion: No, fire breath.
Liam: Do you want to pass that bad boy back? Is it hot?
Matt: It's empty.
Liam: Oh, it's empty! Well, I guess that was worth it.
Orion: (slurred) What? What are you talking about? Don't you tell me how to drink. Oh, you!
Travis: I come out from the castle into the courtyard, and I go, hey! I feel like chicken tonight! Can we go hunt this big bird?
Liam: Tiberius-- I just got him drunk!
Travis: Really?
Orion: (slurred) He gave me a shot of his flask water, and it's so good.
Travis: Are you sure you didn't hit him with the blunt side of your knife again?
Liam: No, no, he took a shot of the old firewater, and I don't know. We might want to slap him a bit--
Orion: (slurred) Allura doesn't like me anymore because I killed that bitch who tried to kill us, and now she's fucking-- nobody likes us!
Liam: Let's find Keyleth.
Travis: Yeah. Smart. Keyleth!
Marisha: What? I was reading. What?
Travis: Tibs got turnt up. Will you fix it?
Marisha: How?
Orion: Vax gave me--
Marisha: What did you do? Why are you touching me?
Orion: Oh, I love protecting you, it is-- and Lockheed is, he loves you, too--
Marisha: Don't touch me right now!
Orion: See, I'm telling you, nobody likes me.
Liam: I gave him his first drinky. I'm sorry. Do you think you could pull him out of it?
Marisha: What?
Liam: I thought he was going to say no! He didn't leave me any.
Orion: It's good. Hi. How are you? I'm Tiberius-- Draconia. You are princess pretty face. He likes you, too.
Liam: Vax walks away, off the roof. Out of here. I'm gone!
Travis: Grog is riveted.
Orion: Human kissy mouth, with you is-- (vomits) (laughter)
Orion: I'm good.
Marisha: If you touch me one more time!
Orion: Oh! Sorry. Did you need to go somewhere?
Marisha: I am doing something else, a request that was already made previously, before "can we fix drunk Tiberius," so I'm a little busy! Why don't you go sleep it off, take a nap, and I will deal with you in a second.
Orion: Is it sleepy time?
Marisha: For you.
Orion: Should I cast Fireball?
Marisha: Oh my god. And I shove him into the cell and put him in bed--
Travis: No, we're not in the prison. We're out in the courtyard.
Marisha: Oh, I thought that you said-- everyone was like, Keyleth!
Laura: I'm still in the prison. Everybody else is out of the prison.
Matt: So where do you push him?
Orion: She pushed me off the roof.
Marisha: No! I thought we were downstairs.
Orion: I fall off the roof. I still have Fly on myself, don't I?
Marisha: You don't fall off the roof. I don't know what I do with him. I let him pass out.
Orion: I'm going to get a sandwich.
Marisha: I let him go get a sandwich.
Sam: I encourage sandwich! (laughter)
Matt: That's the quote of the night. Encouraged to get a sandwich, Tiberius wanders off. What are you doing to prepare what you were doing?
Marisha: I don't know! I got distracted!
Orion: I'm not there.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Well, as the day progresses, what would you guys like to do?
Marisha: Wait. My idea. Okay. We were wanting extra fortification? We were wanting extra protection. Okay? I can't necessarily cast a big spell. I could cast Hallucinatory Terrain. We have a few options; I'm giving them to you all. I can cast Hallucinatory Terrain to make this look like something else. I don't think-- I don't know. I don't know if that's a good idea. I don't know. I could conjure a few woodland beings for, like, extra bears. We could have some bears guarding the palace. I could also throw up a Wall of Thorns, to barrier the cell with the wall of thorns. You're not here?
Sam: I think everyone left. I think it's just you and me up here, and drunk Tiberius.
Marisha: I went downstairs, and I'm saying this to the group so I don't have to repeat myself!
Orion: Oh, so then I turn around with my sandwich and am like, we have to just make Allura talk to us. She can fix everything.
Travis: I grab Tiberius's mouth and I cover it. Please continue.
Sam: Wall of Thorns could be good.
Laura: I like Wall of Thorns.
Marisha: The thing with Wall of Thorns is it's not super big. It's 60 feet.
Sam: That's pretty big!
Laura: Oh. That's not the whole place, though.
Sam: Oh, 60 feet long. I thought you meant high.
Marisha: No, it's 100 feet high. It's really high. Actually, I don't know how high it is. Don't quote me on that. But it's not that long, but we could fortify the doors more. Have bears. We could do multiple things, too.
Liam: I think that the Hallucinatory Terrain wouldn't work. I felt like they could see right through me.
Travis: I think so, too.
Marisha: On the Briarwoods?
Laura: Yeah, they can see through illusions pretty darn well.
Sam: Listen, Percy's here. He can defend for us.
Orion: No, you need a warding spell.
Sam: Why don't we just leave someone behind?
Marisha: Percy's behind.
Travis: Percy's here and so are five? Six? How many employees do we have?
Laura: Our very capable guards.
Travis: Why don't you make some extra bears that don't hate us?
Marisha: Huh?
Travis: Why don't you make some extra bears that don't hate us?
Marisha: All right, I'll make some extra bears.
Orion: Put some little hats on them and make them cute.
Liam: Do you think you could fix him? Because he's a lot of firepower if we're going to go--
Marisha: What gets rid of drunkenness? (laughs)
Laura: Maybe Restoration?
Matt: Restoration would probably take care of it.
Marisha: I don't want to burn a Restoration spell on your drunkenness.
Laura: Can you cast little Restoration?
Matt: You could also just give it a couple of hours. Drink a lot of water.
Travis: What time is it?
Matt: At this point, it's probably close to 3 00 in the afternoon.
Travis: So it's 3 00 in the afternoon. The bird doesn't even come until night. We could let him wear it off.
Marisha: What time is it?
Sam: 3 00. We just established this. We're going to wait until night and go.
Laura: She said she hated you. How did that feel?
Liam: Fine. That was fine. That was the heat of the moment. She was angry. We're a team.
Matt: All right. What's the plan, guys?
Sam: The plan is we're going to let him sober up. We're going to give him some coffee. And then we're going to set off for the north farmlands at dusk.
Orion: Oh, we should get some corn and other harvestments at the farms.
Marisha: I make an army of bears.
Matt: Okay. This concentration will last an hour.
Laura: Oh! That's it.
Matt: The Conjure Woodland Beings?
Marisha: Wait! No! Hang on. What if I conjure a bear, and then-- let me make sure, while they figure their stuff out. See, we're all figuring stuff out?
Laura: What if I leave Trinket in the prison with Jarett?
Travis: Yeah! That won't freak him out at all.
Sam: Well, with Cordell. Jarett's down in the cell. This is defense against invading vampires.
Marisha: Okay! I have a better idea!
Travis: Yep?
Sam: Oh my god.
Marisha: Why don't I conjure an elemental, and then I can cast Planar Binding on him and he'll hang out for 24 hours.
Sam: Great! Do it. Make it done. Let's go kill a bird.
Travis: Lead with that next time.
Marisha: I was figuring it out. It's new.
Sam: You've got to talk it through.
Marisha: Figuring it out.
Travis: That's awesome!
Matt: Yep! That'll do.
Travis: Don't vampires hate fire? Can you do fire?
Laura: Yeah, fire! Fire elemental!
Liam: Running water.
Laura: Ooh, water elemental! (gasps) Tiberius, remember that you--
Travis: He's drunk!
Laura: I know.
Sam: Don't talk to him.
Travis: He won't remember anything.
Orion: (slurred) I love how you shoot arrows at things' eyeballs.
Sam: I use Minor Illusion to create Lockheed, and I have him scamper away.
Orion: Oh, that's you. But where are you going? You go play up there. Tell your brother to be good. Anyway, you're so pretty.
Matt: So are you doing that, Marisha? Keyleth, are you summoning an elemental?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: Okay. Which kind?
Marisha: Water elemental.
Matt: Okay. And you cast Planar Binding. Part of the material component cost is a gem that's worth at least 1,000 gold pieces.
Travis: I have one of those.
Laura: You do?
Travis: Yeah. It's a jewel that's red and palm-sized.
Laura: I have a diamond of awesome. And a regular diamond, as well.
Liam: If I create a trap here, can you bind some magic to it?
Orion: You can do anything with magic. You can make things go. You can make things stop.
Travis: I cover Tiberius's mouth again.
Laura: I give her a diamond.
Matt: All right. Is this the awesome diamond or the regular diamond?
Laura: This is a regular diamond. The awesome diamond is special.
Matt: All right.
Laura: No! Don't do that!
Marisha: I know! Why do you do that?
Laura: Diamonds are really expensive! Any diamonds!
Marisha: I know! And an awesome diamond has got to be more than 1,000, so this time there's got to be at least 1,000. Grog, what kind of jewel do you have?
Travis: It's a palm-sized ruby.
Marisha: A palm-sized ruby?
Travis: Yeah, I got a big palm!
Marisha: Tiberius.
Sam: No, just don't.
Matt: Vex. Your keen eye is able to ascertain that the palm-sized ruby is worth roughly 1,200 gold pieces and would be suitable for this ritual.
Laura: I think we should use the ruby. Because I have an eye for these things.
Travis: Do we think they're going to come while we do this? Do we want to waste it? Because that's an awesome outside defense. Do we want to waste it for this? What if they're coming? Does it cost one jewel per--
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Maybe we should save that, because that's awesome!
Liam: Is there a possibility, DM, that I could-- if he's sobered up-- if I set a trap, that a spell of his could be bound to it, somehow, and go off? I have no idea.
Matt: It's hard to say. There are certain spells that can enable that. That can take certain spells that trigger at a certain time. Nothing that's particularly in your guys' realm of experience or understanding though, unfortunately.
Liam: All right. So I can look into it for the future, but not today.
Travis: Keyleth, I like that. I think we should keep it in case there is an actual attack coming. Because it might just, 24 hours and then we waste it. Nobody came.
Marisha: That's true. To be fair, the castle's being heavily watched by outsiders, as well.
Sam: Okay! Listen. Let's just go.
Orion: Grog is big. Scanlan's small. Everything is great. Hi.
Liam: Can we leave Trinket? To watch.
Laura: What? He's going to go down in the prison with Jarett.
Matt: Okay. You bring Trinket down. Trinket stands watch right in the center, plops down right up against the bars.
Laura: I knock on Percy's door and say, Percy?
Matt: "Yes?"
Laura: Trinket's out here. If you need anything, you just come out and you pet him.
Matt: "Thank you."
Laura: Welcome.
Orion: I also go up to the door and go, Trinket. (mumbling) Percy.
Laura: Aren't you sober yet?
Orion: No, it's been like five minutes, hasn't it?
Matt: Yeah. Over time, over the next two to three hours or so, you guys have set up a place to go. They have given you some water, and you've managed to sober up a bit.
Liam: I actually picked his pocket and took his bottle of endless water. Don't you have a bottle of water like that?
Matt: No. That is currently left to be blessed for holy water.
Liam: Oh. Oh, well.
Travis: And we take the scenic route to let him walk it off as we head up towards Big Bird's house.
Sam: Great!
Matt: All right. So. You guys make your way around the outskirts of Emon under moonlight. It's a three-quarter waxing moon. You make your way to the farm vicinity on the north side of the city. It doesn't take long for you to eventually suss out the house that matches the description that you were given by the Klauses. You knock on the door, and they eagerly greet your arrival and invite you in. "So glad you all could make it. Have you decided? Have you given our community's request some thought?"
Sam: We're here to help. We're the heroes that you asked for.
Travis: We love old people.
Matt: "Thank you. That's really good of you. We will happily provide you with fresh produce, going forward. We've talked to a few of the members of the community and we're going to make sure that's taken care of."
Sam: Where do you think we should stake out this bird? Where are your livestock kept?
Matt: "The livestock are kept on the eastern side of this community. If you look about, say about half a mile out to where the actual residences stop being clustered together, you'll see there are a number of large livestock containment areas. Hard to miss out there. We have pens for sheep; we have pens for cows; we have pens for horses, other beasts of burden. That whole vicinity is where most of these attacks seem to be coming. So that's probably your best bet there."
Liam: And the biggest you have are the bulls, you said?
Matt: "Bulls. We have a few big cows, as well. We've lost a few of them, unfortunately."
Travis: That'll be all we need.
Laura: Can one of us polymorph into a giant cow?
Sam: Sure.
Marisha: I could also talk to cows again. Maybe these cows will know something.
Travis: We head out to the pasture.
Marisha: First can I ask her, you said your neighbor boy, Kyle?
Sam: Kyle. The neighbor boy. The neighbor boy's son. Yes.
Matt: "That's true. Kyle's the one who originally spotted it, yeah."
Marisha: Where does he live?
Matt: "He's actually the son of the man who runs most of the livestock areas over there. You can go and head over there. He's probably still up, keeping his eye out in case it comes back."
Marisha: Thank you. I go to Kyle.
Matt: Okay. You guys make your way over there. It's easy to find. There's large pens. You can see that for as big as the pens are built and their structure, they are noticeably dwindled. You can see why there's been some worry in the community here. The fact that it's only been two weeks and this many creatures are gone is a little disconcerting. As you get there, you can see the house has its light on. There are glowing windows. And sitting in a chair, holding a crossbow across his lap, you see a 19-year-old boy, rugged chin growth, dirty red hair that's disheveled. And he's sitting there looking around in the sky. Rocking back and forth in his chair as you approach. "Who goes there?"
Sam: Don't worry, we're friends. We're friends of the Klauses. Mr. and Mrs. Klaus.
Matt: "Okay. Okay. So you the ones they say was coming to help?"
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: Aye.
Laura: We hear you have a keen eye, Kyle.
Matt: "I've seen some things, yeah."
Sam: Where have they been attacking lately?
Matt: Points to the whole area in front of him and says, "Are you keeping watch now? Great. Thank you."
Marisha: No! Wait! Don't leave yet. We need you.
Orion: Yes, yes. Keyleth. We are Vox Machina. Over from Greyskull Keep. I'm Tiberius Stormwind.
Marisha: That's irrelevant. The point is, I was wondering if you had any more information about the creature.
Matt: "I mean, other than the fact that it was just a really big bird. Really big. Huge."
Marisha: Do you remember any other details? Any other defining details other than "bird?"
Matt: "It's hard to see in the moonlight."
Sam: When it picks up a cow or whatever it's been picking up, does it strike with the beak or the claws? The talons.
Matt: "Claws, and sometimes it takes two at a time, one in each claw, and just carries them away. "
Orion: Have you seen any of its droppings anywhere?
Matt: "No. "
Travis: Have you managed to hit it with your crossbow?
Matt: "I've missed."
Liam: And you're certain this is a feathered beast, or no?
Matt: "Best I can see. It's dark out here at that time of night and it looks like a bird. It doesn't make any noise and swoops on down and takes them away and flies off in that direction."
Travis: I've heard that those giant birds are attracted to red-headed, 19-year-old, scruffy-chin folk with crossbows.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Travis: Awesome.
Matt: This would be with your charisma.
Travis: 22.
Matt: Nice. He goes, "Well, I don't want to be here, then. You guys can keep an eye out. I've got to go." And unloads the bolt in the crossbow, slings it up under his arm--
Sam: Wait! Before you leave. I'm sorry. I have an itch. And it can only be scratched with a cowbell. Do you have a cowbell anywhere around here? I just need a cowbell. Can I borrow a cowbell from you?
Matt: "Your kid's weird." And he keeps walking.
Marisha: Your kid is weird!
Sam: I'm not a child!
Laura: Do I see any cowbells on the ground?
Matt: You can take a glance about. You eventually can see that there is set up on one of the fences that fences in the cows, there is a cowbell, yes.
Laura: Hey, there's a cowbell, Scanlan.
Sam: Great. It will help the ruse. Here's my plan we're all cows. Is that an okay plan?
Laura: I like it!
Marisha: I'm into this plan. But doesn't that essentially make us the bait?
Sam: Yes, we're our own bait. Are you cool with that?
Laura: Should one of us maybe not be a cow?
Marisha: Well, here's the thing, maybe a few of us should not be cows because only a few people are going to have the ability to turn out of being a cow once they are a cow, unless they take damage.
Travis: We went from all cows to pretty much no one is a cow.
Laura: No, Keyleth is definitely a cow. No, I mean-- I didn't-- we didn't mean like that. You're very lovely.
Marisha: It's okay. What Vax said was way worse, earlier.
Travis: How do you come out of being a cow, if you are one?
Sam: I can get rid of it.
Travis: You would do it? Let's do it! When else are we all going to be cows? Come on! Unless it kills them instantly, we'll be fine.
Orion: I'm fine. I go invisible.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I'm going to lay in wait with an arrow. All the rest of you can be cows.
Liam: I think I'm better served waiting to strike.
Sam: You and me, Grog. We're cows!
Liam: If it grabs one of them, I'll deal more damage. If it grabs me, I'll deal no damage. But if it grabs Scanlan cow, I can--
Marisha: Another thing is, I can turn into a cow. I can turn someone else into a cow. Well, Polymorph is a concentration spell.
Sam: I can turn us all into cows.
Marisha: Oh. Because you got that thing.
Travis: Cow or no, Keyleth? Give us your answer.
Marisha: Oh, I'm a cow.
Sam: Seeming.
Orion: Oh, we are not actually cows?
Sam: We'll just seem like cows.
Marisha: Except for me who is going to be an actual cow.
Orion: If it's Polymorph, I couldn't cast stuff. I redact my Invisibility and I'll be a cow. I'm also going to be a cow. I want to be a brown cow.
Marisha: We're all cows! Just embrace it.
Matt: You can't change a target's body type.
Sam: What? No.
Matt: So the same form of your limbs-- you're right.
Sam: You can't change size, but we can all be Grog-sized cows or Scanlan-sized cows.
Matt: It's going to be an array of very strangely sized cows.
Marisha: Scanlan would be like a calf. Big calf.
Sam: What do you think?
Matt: I'll allow it! (cheering and laughter)
Sam: I'll allow it! (cheering and laughter)
Sam: Gather close to me!
Travis: We want to get in the pen first, right?
Sam: Yes, let's go into the pen, and if I may, I'm going to wear the cow bell.
Travis: Sure! You've earned it. (laughter)
Laura: How you going to put it? I'm just going to put it around your neck right now.
Travis: Super loose.
Matt: You guys make your way into the cow pen. The little bit of moonlight that's coming down from the sky illuminates. You see the cows are clustered underneath this overhang that is used for temporary shelter. You hear this distant (mooing) as you approach and make noise. No one's not too upset yet. It's more low muttering.
Travis: What if that was attraction?
Matt: Not yet.
Marisha: If we use Seeming, we just appear to be cows, but we can still speak, right?
Matt: Yeah. Anything sees you as cows--
Marisha: Would be like, holy shit, those are talking cows!
Sam: It's "cow-moo-flage." (groaning)
Sam: Thank you.
Orion: That's good.
Matt: I have to give you experience for that. (laughter)
Liam: Wait. What's going on? Are we turning into cows?
Sam: We just will seem like cows.
Liam: I don't understand magic.
Travis: Just go along. Go along.
Laura: That way we can ambush the bird.
Marisha: We are going to look like cows. Are we going to look like cows to each other, too?
Matt: You'll find out.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: As you all gather around the small gnome, currently adorned with the cowbell around his neck.
Liam: Just like the brothels, eh?
Matt: You complete the spell and with a sudden (whoosh) of cold night air, your vision blurs and you blink for a second. You look around and Vox Machina is now, instead, an array of slightly smaller than average cows. (mooing)
Sam: (barks) Oh, wait. No.
Matt: You're, by the way, more of a calf.
Laura: You are so cute, Scanlan.
Marisha: Okay, shall we go interview some cows?
Laura: Let's go talk to some cows. I want to walk over to the cows with you.
Matt: You guys step up, awkwardly, towards the cows, some of which are sleeping, some of which are noticing and sitting there just chewing.
Marisha: Which one looks like the alpha male?
Laura: The one that's got horns.
Matt: There are no males in this pen, because they are cows.
Orion: I try to speak to the cow.
Matt: Okay. What do you say?
Orion: Hello, I'm Tiberius Stormwind from Draconia.
Matt: You speak Common. You don't know Cow.
Marisha: Tiberius, just because you look like a cow doesn't mean you can talk to the cows. The cows don't understand English. No matter if you look like a cow, they still don't understand Common.
Liam: Boy, if Uriel could see us now. (laughter)
Travis: We are "cow-nsel" worthy.
Marisha: I cast Speak With Animals.
Matt: This is the best Vox Machina adventure ever! All right, you cast Speak With Animals.
Marisha: Yes. Actually, how many animals can I hit with Speak with Animals? It is called Animals, right? Or is it just Speak with Animal?
Matt: I think it affects you. I think it gives you the ability to speak with.
Marisha: Oh, just me the ability?
Orion: You're Dr. Doolittle.
Marisha: Oh, yeah. I think you're right. Okay, so I cast Speak With Animals on myself.
Matt: All right. Yep! On self for ten minutes.
Orion: Make sure the cow-- What? She may know a cow that is over there.
Marisha: Okay, so I go up. Is there a cluster of nice-looking ladies, sitting around?
Matt: All the cows are clustered in this one corner, up against each other for body warmth. And there are few that are just like (moo).
Marisha: Hello, ladies. Good evening.
Matt: (moo) Which is what you guys hear. You hear as a response: "What are you doing? We're trying to sleep."
Marisha: I do apologize to awaken you. I was just curious if you could tell me a little bit about some of the events that have been transpiring around here lately? Mainly, the results of your kind getting killed?
Matt: "My kind?"
Orion: Just ask about the bird!
Marisha: Have you seen a giant bird flying around? Anyone?
Matt: At which point, all the cows start shuddering and say, "Yes. Haven't you? It keeps taking us. Why do you think we're hiding under this?"
Marisha: Oh, sure.
Matt: "Be careful. If you stay out there, it'll see you."
Marisha: Right. Where, exactly? Where have they been-- okay. Damn, cows! It's never--
Sam: Keyleth, what vital information have you learned?
Marisha: I'll get back to you in one second. Can you tell me anything about what it looks like?
Matt: "It's big and has wings. It's fast, and it keeps taking us."
Orion: Ask her where the moon is at night--
Marisha: Does it seem to come at a certain time of the night?
Matt: "The dark time."
Orion: It's a cow. This is the same as before.
Travis: Because nothing is happening I am now trying to eat grass.
Matt: You bend down, and take clusters with your hand, and start eating grass.
Orion: Oh, we are ourselves, still?
Matt: Yeah, you are not actually physically cows. You are still yourselves. You just look like cows.
Sam: I, for once, and it's not weird, I just shit on the floor. (laughter)
Sam: Seems totally normal.
Travis: We are in it, baby!
Laura: I'm just going to notch a bow to my bow, just to keep a lookout to the sky.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Can I Prestidigitate smells?
Matt: You could.
Orion: Sweet. Go ahead. (laughter)
Sam: All right, so we go out into the field.
Marisha: They're cows. I forgot that talking to cows never goes well.
Laura: Yeah, remember Dork?
Marisha: Didn't seem to know a lot. They're simple-minded beasts.
Laura: Dork the ox.
Marisha: Yeah, poor Dork. Dork the ox.
Matt: Rest in peace, Dork.
Travis: Pour a little out.
Matt: You guys make your way. You wait a while, a good two-hour period, as cows, before eventually you, keeping your eye to the sky with your arrow nocked, see a whisk of shadow across the moonlight.
Laura: (whistles)
Travis: What was that?
Laura: I'm letting you guys fucking know there's a thing in the sky.
Orion: Is it Jumanji time?
Sam: Not quite.
Matt: At this point, you guys look up, and you see something circle once. It looks like a bird. It's just not as big as you were expecting. Looks like a bigger hawk.
Orion: I cast Stoneskin on myself.
Matt: Okay. Bigger and bigger
Liam: My cow is going stealth.
Matt: Roll for cow stealth! (laughter)
Liam: 23.
Matt: Okay. You're still a cow.
Marisha: I make myself look available. I step away from the rest of the herd a little bit.
Travis: I go into a cow rage and start chewing faster.
Matt: You would like to chew! All right.
Laura: I Hunter's Mark it.
Matt: Okay. Well, it has to come within range first.
Laura: As soon as it is.
Matt: As it swoops down, you see this bird just gets larger and larger and you realize it was quite a distance away. And now that it's getting closer, the tales you've heard are true. This is at least a 100-foot wing span, if not more.
Orion: I'm going to fix my ring on it.
Marisha: 100-foot wing span?
Orion: As it gets close I'm going to brace my ring as it's coming towards us.
Matt: Okay. It comes. It dives down with extreme speed and goes into a dive. It comes into range. You cast Hunter's Mark on it. You have your ring ready. What you doing?
Orion: Cast Slow on it!
Matt: Cast Slow? All righty. What is the DC on that?
Orion: 17.
Matt: And what is the save?
Sam: Is it wisdom or charisma or something?
Orion: It's concentration! No, wait, it is a concentration.
Matt: Yes it is. That's okay. I'm finding it. All right, it is wisdom. All right. Oh! What was the DC?
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17. That is an 18. Rolled a natural 18 on that one. As it swoops down, you release the spell, you are immediately attempting to be grasped in its talons. That is a 23 to hit.
Marisha: That hits.
Matt: All right. So you then take 23 points of slashing damage to your cow form.
Laura: I thought we were just--
Matt: Oh. Okay. Sorry. You're not in cow form, are you? You're illusioned. You're staying normal?
Marisha: No, I'm normal.
Matt: You're normal. Right. Okay. I thought you were saying you were doing an actual cow form, but no. All right. You take 23 points of slashing damage, and you are currently grappled as it takes right back up into the air, clutching Keyleth within its talons.
Liam: How fast can the rest of us do anything? It's gone?
Matt: Now you guys can react. It is currently 60 feet away from you.
Laura: I immediately-- oh god! I shoot it.
Sam: Do we have to roll for initiative?
Matt: You do.
Laura: But I was notched already.
Matt: Right. I'll give you advantage on your initiative. Because you're notched but you used your last turn to cast Hunter's Mark on it. Everyone roll initiative. You have advantage on it because you were nocked, and because you were ready to react, you have advantage on your initiative check, but everyone else just roll normally. All right. So that is 25 to 20?
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21.
Matt: 20 to 15?
Liam: 17.
Travis: 18.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: Vax. Keyleth. Scanlan? Tiberius? What you guys got?
Sam: Six.
Orion: Five.
Matt: Okay. All right. So Vex, you're up first.
Laura: I'm going to shoot it through the Blazing Bowstring.
Matt: Okay. Go for it. Roll for the attack.
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16 hits.
Laura: (counts quietly) 26.
Matt: 26 points of damage. All righty.
Laura: And then I'm going to shoot it again.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: That one definitely hits  26.
Matt: Yeah! That hits.
Laura: 26 again.
Matt: Nice! All right, that brings us to Grog.
Travis: I take the Firebrand Warhammer, activate it, turn on the fire. And I put the Chain of Returning on it and throw it at the winged beast.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll with disadvantage because it's already roughly 40 to 60 feet away from you. It's tough to get there. But you can try.
Travis: 15. Nope. 16.
Matt: Okay. Due to its distance and the dark cover of night, it's harder to hit and you actually swing and throw it and the hammer-- The chain goes taut and it just drops to the ground and it's just out of range of the hammer, as it escapes the range it would have hit it with.
Travis: Can I pull it back?
Matt: Yeah, go for it. That's easy enough, it's not wedged in anything. You don't have to roll for it. All right, so that's your turn. Vax.
Liam: I'd like to use a bonus action to click Boots of Haste together, and I think if I do that, I have two actions at that point, right?
Matt: No. Well you do have an additional action that can be used only to attack.
Liam: Just attack. So what I want to do is click the Boots of Haste together, use the original action to run as far as I can towards the bird, and then use my final action to sneak attack the thing since it's got Keyleth in its talons. That's up to you.
Matt: Okay. The sneak attack will not kick in because Keyleth is not threatening the creature. But you go for the attacks. You rush up, you dash, you get underneath it-- for a moment, because of the Boots of Haste, you keep speed with this giant, darting creature. You, underneath, throw your daggers upward.
Liam: All right. It would just be one-- I mean if I use the dash to run as far as I can, that would leave me with one attack probably?
Matt: One attack and your bonus without the damage bonus.
Liam: I'm trying to be a Boy Scout here. Wouldn't the Boots of Haste clicking be the bonus action? Yeah. That is 22 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: All right. And that's not a whole lot.
Matt: What's the range increment on a dagger?
Liam: That's ten. Ten.
Matt: Ten?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Dagger. Roll again for disadvantage because it's just within your secondary throwing range.
Liam: Oh yeah. Then I missed.
Matt: Okay. It vanishes into the dark night ahead of you. So yeah. That is gone. You still have your Belt of Returning, you just don't have your snake belt. Yeah, don't worry guys. I saw the look on your face and I'm like, no, it's fine. It comes back. Okay. Keyleth, you're up. You're currently grappled and held within the talons of this giant bird. You see the entire ground below you.
Marisha: Judging by the fairly close up appearance I have of him at this point, can I tell it is probably a "beast" nature?
Matt: At the sheer size, it's hard to tell. You've never encountered a beast of this size, but you do look up and you can see the talons that are currently holding you in place and piercing the sides of your armor are bird-like talons. And you do see a series of dark feathers coating the entire underbelly of this entity.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to attempt to cast Dominate Beast.
Matt: Okay. All right.
Marisha: It has to make a wisdom saving throw.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Is your Enhance Ability still active? From before?
Matt: That's for ability checks. So you finish casting the spell. Apparently, this entity is not affected by the spell.
Liam: Fuck-sticks.
Sam: It's not a beast?
Matt: It is not a beast. There's a fine line when certain creatures of nature are altered by some sort of magical essence or their nature perhaps is not natural at the get-go. Either they were created or over time they became something beyond beast. This seems to fall under that category.
Marisha: That's my turn, right?
Matt: That's your turn. That brings us to its turn.
Marisha: Can I try and break the grapple as a bonus action?
Matt: That would be your action to try and break the grapple. For this creature's turn, it does a full double dash of its full flight speed and is about 250 feet away from you and completely out of your guys' reach. You see it (whoosh) up into the sky, disappearing to the north, north-northwest area beyond Emon, carrying Keyleth in its claws.
Liam: Keyleth, just get out of its fucking hands and fall. You can change. We'll catch you; we'll do something! Just fall.
Matt: You're close enough where you can still hear this, as the desperation kicks in and you realize-- seeing your whole party not even visible at this point except a couple of dark dots in the low light of the night.
Sam: Is it our turn yet?
Matt: It now comes to Scanlan's turn.
Sam: Okay. I Dimension Door.
Matt: What's the range on Dimension Door?
Sam: 500 feet.
Matt: You-- and appear where? Where do you want to appear?
Sam: On it. On its back.
Matt: Okay. You appear right on its back. You immediately land and start sliding back as the wind is pushing on you. The feathers themselves, due to the aerodynamic nature of its flight path; it's a lot of wind resistance against you.
Liam: Oh, make an acrobatics check.
Orion: Shush! What the hell?!
Matt: No, I was going there. Don't worry. That's what it is. You need to go ahead and make an acrobatics check to see if you can maintain balance on the back of this beast.
Liam: My intelligence is not six!
Sam: 20!
Matt: You manage to just, you tumble backward a little bit. You grab a couple of feathers and get yourself just on the side underneath where the wing meets part of the upper torso, where the wind resistance is the least amount, and you manage to hold on. You are now clutching the back of this giant bird. That's your turn.
Sam: Okay. As my bonus action, I will inspire Keyleth. Right? She's right next to me?
Marisha: Scanlan? What the shit?
Sam: (singing) The way you kick so much ass like nobody else. The way you do animal things gets me overwhelmed. You don't know. You don't know you're powerful. Oh. That's what makes you powerful.
Matt: Due to the wind, you don't hear the last line. It's too loud around it. However, you can take a d10 inspiration dice.
Laura: Yay!
Marisha: Yay!
Liam: What a heroic move! Amazing!
Matt: Which for the record, this currently right now looks like-- you see the cow clutched below, and currently there is a cow holding onto this giant bird.
Sam: It lasts eight hours.
Matt: This singing tiny cow. You artists out there, have fun with this scene. (laughter)
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Tiberius.
Orion: Good. I drop Stoneskin. At 5th-level, I go myself, one, two, three-- I cast Fly on all of us. Fly, you fools! And go right after them.
Matt: All right. All of you guys, at that point you see Tiberius and you all take off after him.
Liam: The cows take off into the night sky.
Orion: (shouting) Fly, Vox Machina! Moo!
Marisha: Vox "Moo-china!" (booing)
Matt: A squadron of weirdly-sized, flying cows lit by moonlight, chasing after a giant bird. I love Dungeons and Dragons. (laughter)
Travis: What is this?
Matt: What's the flying speed on Fly?
Orion: 60 feet.
Matt: 60 feet. Cool.
Orion: I'm going to dash. On that.
Matt: Yep. You guys can go 120 feet every turn. It can go 240. Two rounds pass before you guys realize there is no way you're going to catch up with this thing or get even close to it.
Liam: I've got Haste!
Laura: I've got Hunter's Mark on it, so I can track it.
Liam: Double me, yo! I got Haste.
Matt: Your Haste speed-- your physical body doesn't affect the Fly spell, unfortunately. You're only at the speed that the arcane nature of the spell can take you. I'm just saying. Your metabolism's real fast. Your heartbeat's hummingbirding it. But you're still only going 120 feet. So as you guys follow behind, you can see now, after a while on the edge of the shoreline, not too far from Emon-- maybe what would normally be from horseback or a brisk walk, a half day's travel-- you eventually come upon the-- There it is! You come upon the coastal mountains known as the Shoreline Summit. It's a series of unusually steep mountain bluffs that hug the coastline, northwest of Emon. As you get closer, and at this point you've lost sight of the bird. Scanlan, I want you to go ahead and roll an athletics check.
Sam: Athletics? Well, that doesn't count. That's not good. Athletics? 16.
Matt: 16? Okay. You still manage to keep hold for the portion of the length of the journey. As it moves and shifts and the wind itself is still blowing in your face, though minimized by your current positioning. It's a trial to hold onto this large creature as it makes its wings beat and just the sheer force of its movement. All right. So as you get closer to these mountaintops--
Marisha: Do I have a turn yet?
Matt: You can go ahead and take your turn now too, yes.
Marisha: Yeah? I cast Polymorph on it. You're on it.
Sam: Don't worry about me!
Marisha: Really?
Sam: I'm fine! You never need to worry about me. Haven't you guys learned that by now? I'm fine!
Marisha: Out of thematic reasons, I also turn him into a cow. (laughter)
Sam: That's amazing!
Liam: Is what she cries out heroically.
Matt: Okay. What's the DC on this?
Marisha: My spell DC? 18.
Matt: Rolled a one. (laughter)
Sam: I'm a cow on a cow with a cow!
Matt: So this giant flying bird-- Moo! And just begins to plummet at an extremely fast speed. You both immediately are released from its grasp. Scanlan and Keyleth both are just falling. You guys don't see this. It's too far away from you now. At this point, you're probably close to about 500 feet in the air.
Liam: Yo, I heard you liked cows, so I gave you some cows with your cow.
Matt: I hope this inspires the next Diablo Cow level, guys. You really need to look into this. All right. So you guys are now both plummeting and falling at a really, really rapid speed.
Marisha: I go eagle form.
Matt: Flailing cows. You go eagle form. You're fine. So you go into eagle form. That's your action this turn. That's your bonus action, because you can do that as a--
Marisha: As a bonus action!
Matt: Eagle form. Scanlan, you plummet full speed on this one. You probably have another two rounds before you impact with something very painful.
Liam: But he's as heavy as a dust mote, so he just goes like this all the way down. Right?
Marisha: I don't think that's how it works.
Orion: No, he's a little pebble.
Marisha: I can catch him, if you need catched.
Matt: You guys still continue to give chase. Eventually, you see this giant thing just go and vanish from sight. It's just gone. It just disappeared.
Orion: I go full Gandalf.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Never go full Gandalf.
Matt: You guys are pushing forward. So it's now the next round for you guys to react. What are you doing?
Sam: I will become a pterodactyl.
Matt: So you're casting?
Sam: Polymorph on myself?
Matt: Okay. Because you are falling and this is a lot of wind, I'm going to have to ask you to make a concentration check to complete the spell.
Laura: Come on, Scanlan!
Matt: So go ahead and roll a d20.
Sam: This is a concentration not on holding a spell, but on casting it?
Matt: Correct. Because as part of the components of it and maintaining your attention to the spell--
Marisha: What does he add? His spell attack bonus?
Matt: This? No, this is a d20 and-- let me make sure, yeah-- it's a d20 and then you add your plus five from your charisma.
Sam: Charisma? That's a natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: With that-- (screeches) pterodactyl.
Liam: Tables have turned, motherfucker! Tables have turned!
Orion: You're both flying cows!
Laura: Wait! Was Seeming a concentration?
Orion: I think it lasts for like eight hours.
Laura: Did it drop? Are we no longer cows?
Sam: I think so. I'll check.
Liam: Hey! You're not a cow anymore!
Laura: Oh my god, you're not a cow anymore!
Liam: Oh! Awesome!
Matt: You guys keep flying. You guys catch yourselves.
Sam: Nope, not concentration. It just lasts for eight hours.
Matt: You guys are all still flying cows. You're all still just a squadron of flying, illusory cows, which you guys are both now transformed into an eagle and a pterodactyl, but you still look like cows. (laughter)
Liam: As the twins are flying, I say, hey, did you notice we have the same pattern? Twins!
Matt: About this time, you hear a loud, impactful boom. And there's a cloud of dust partway into the side of this first bit of mountain range that you come upon, a little bit distant from you guys.
Laura: Can I fly down towards it?
Matt: You start heading in that direction. Because of the speed it was traveling at and the way it was carrying at the speed it was going, it's still ahead of you guys. And you see the impact. You hear this loud screeching sound and you see now where there was a little poof of cloud, these wings unfold and (flapping) make its way back up.
Orion: How far away from it are we?
Matt: You guys right now at the close to six minutes you've been traveling--
Marisha: Did it not drop the cow to 0 hit points?
Matt: All the damage carries over.
Liam: The remainder of that damage went into its hit points.
Matt: You don't know. It looks hurt. It looks like it wasn't happy about it. It continues back up. From you Tiberius, it's probably close to 700 to 800 feet away from you. It's because of the speed it was traveling and the speed you guys were following. It was gaining on you every single turn.
Laura: Is it flying away from us now?
Matt: It's heading up into the mountain range.
Liam: Fly after that motherfucker!
Laura: Should we still track it? It's still nighttime, right?
Matt: It's still nighttime, yeah.
Orion: It's only 500 feet away from me right now?
Matt: 600 to 500 feet.
Orion: Okay, cool. Well I'm going for it, still.
Matt: What are you doing?
Laura: We're all following it.
Orion: Where am I? It's taking off right now and I'm over here?
Matt: You're back here. It's now starting to take off and head up towards the top of this mountain range that you're just starting to come upon.
Orion: Okay. If it's doing that, then I'll fucking go higher and try to meet it where it's going.
Matt: Okay. Cool. The rest of you guys continue to give chase. Now that it's returned to its form, it travels an additional double dash: 240 feet. As this progresses, it's far beyond any of you guys in a matter of seconds.
Laura: Is the mountain range really far away?
Matt: No, you've just hit the outskirts of the mountain range. It got there first. You guys just catch up to where it starts and you see it's like now it's dodging through the mountains and is currently no longer in sight. There is a little bit of low cloud cover in this area. A couple drift by and cover a couple of the mountains. But this little cluster of seaside cliffs and mountains, as you get closer, you can see it's dotted with high altitude trees. There's precariously perched goats that are sleeping on elements of the sides of this mountain.
Liam: Can you track it?
Laura: I can track it! Of course.
Matt: So you're keeping your attention on it?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: The winds also are pretty strong as you get close to the mountains. As you coast around each, you start actually diving into this middle valley area.
Laura: I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Does that affect any spells?
Laura: No, it just makes us stealth easier.
Sam: It doesn't drop Hunter's Mark?
Matt: Is it concentration?
Laura: No, it's not concentration; it's an action. Oh wait. (laughs) I don't know if I can tell.
Matt: Is Pass Without a Trace concentration?
Laura: Where does it say it?
Sam: There's a C next to it somewhere.
Laura: Oh, never mind! It's a concentration. Forget it! I don't know how these things work yet.
Sam: Yeah, stick to the bows and arrows.
Matt: Traveling through this area, you can see the mountains. The way that they're constructed in this area, it's not a gradual crag. A lot of these are just punched up in the air, like whatever heavy seismic force that created these initially was very localized and very powerful. A lot of the mountains are spire-like. They come up with very sheer sides and you can see why this mountain range is largely not utilized or traversed or generally spoken of often because it's too dangerous for most average folk to even attempt to climb or use for any good reason. The winds are high and powerful here at the tops, as well. And as you're flying around, the winds blowing across, and you get pushed off your course a little bit here and there, but you still keep up, best as possible. You leading the charge. Over about five minutes of searching through this mountain range, you sense that its movement eventually comes to stop.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: There's a nest.
Sam: Wait, you sense that he came to a stop?
Laura: He came to a stop a little bit ahead of us.
Sam: Let's go get him.
Laura: Can we all try to stealth in?
Sam: I'm a pterodactyl, so--
Marisha: Yeah, let's go for the element of surprise. Well, technically, we're all still cows.
Matt: Yes. And you guys cannot talk because you're actually in creature forms.
Laura: All right. Well, I'm going to try to stealth. Mountains are my favored terrain!
Matt: They are! Do you want to go onto the mountain itself, or are you still flying amongst them?
Laura: Oh, I'll still fly.
Matt: So you would not get the advantage because air is not your favored terrain. So everyone who wishes to, go ahead and roll stealth checks
Marisha: All of us?
Matt: All of you who wish to try and come at it from a quiet--
Sam: (pterodactyl screech)
Matt: What did you roll?
Liam: With advantage, I rolled a two.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm not used to being flying, really.
Sam: Five.
Orion: Are we flying anymore?
Matt: You guys are all still flying, yeah.
Orion: Oh, shit. Okay. Oh, no.
Marisha: 21.
Travis: 14.
Laura: 28.
Matt: Yeah, so. You guys following behind Vex, many of you clumsily and some of you shouting out to each other, "I think she sees it this way." And you're like, "oh my god." You come around this one bend and you can see one of the larger mountainous spires that has a lot of trees and green growth towards the top at certain places where the rock juts out and gives a shelf for such greenery to grow, outside of its sheer outside surface. You do see a couple of wings fold in against the moonlight in what looks to be an outcropping. And there are multiple layers of rock shelves on the side of this mountain. And on one of these outcroppings, there appears to be some sort of a nest: a cluster of almost like actual trees and pieces of wood that are all jammed into this giant nest that's nestled against where the shadow and the moonlight are fighting for some sort of visual on it.
Travis: Big-ass tree fortress.
Laura: Did we just find like a mama bird and baby birds?
Marisha: Yeah, we did.
Laura: What are we going to do?
Liam: We're going to take out the mom and train the babies.
Sam: What are we going to do?
Liam: Yeah. We're going to capture those babies and we're going to train them.
Orion: That's a good idea. I like that idea.
Sam: Like Avatar?
Orion: Yes.
Travis: You could go in.
Laura: Me go in? There's a giant fucking nest here! I get close to it. As close as I feel safe getting to it.
Matt: You guys all stay back or do you go with her?
Orion: I'm going to cast Greater Invisibility on myself and then follow.
Matt: Okay. You guys have 12 seconds before you all plummet.
Orion: Oh wait! No! I don't do that. Damn it! I forget we're still flying.
Travis: What part of the flying part did you forget?
Orion: I thought we'd landed already.
Matt: Are you guys all going with Vex, or are you all staying back and she's going on her own?
Travis: Are we going to lose Fly, or do we keep it?
Matt: Are you casting Greater Invisibility?
Orion: No.
Matt: Then no, you're fine.
Liam: Is it the same stealth roll or an additional stealth roll to go forward at this point?
Matt: No this was your stealth roll on approaching.
Liam: Oh. Well, I mean, I knew I rolled shitty.
Matt: You don't know you rolled shitty.
Travis: I'm going in.
Matt: All right. So Vex and Grog, you approach. Gliding cows, drifting through the night sky.
Laura: This is so stupid.
Travis: Hoof in hoof.
Matt: Okay, yeah. So you guys all realize you must keep close together to Tiberius as you come in. Keeping too much of a distance would be a bad thing. You come upon the underneath portion of this outcropping, and you can see within a quick glance-- go ahead and make a perception check, all of you guys.
Marisha: All of us?
Matt: All of you who are coming up in this cluster.
Travis: Three.
Laura: Do I get an advantage because we're in a mountain environment at all?
Matt: Nope. Actually no. Because you're seeing things on a mountain, I will give you advantage on this.
Laura: Yes!
Marisha: 12.
Matt: 12?
Orion: 16.
Sam: Nothing.
Liam: 13.
Laura: 12.
Matt: So the highest was?
Orion: 16.
Matt: 16. You got?
Travis: Three.
Matt: As you guys all look up, it's very shadowy over here. It's hard to see. The moonlight's in your eye a little bit and the darkness is so pitch. The umbra of this particular shadow is very dark and crushed. You make out, in the nest, the large bird creature has folded its wings and is currently leaning down. And you see something in the nest that's much smaller moving up next to it.
Marisha: I don't want to kill a mama.
Laura: But she's killing the farmers' stuff.
Marisha: Maybe we can transplant her.
Sam: To a wildlife preserve?
Laura: Maybe. And her babies?
Marisha: Capture her and move her away from town?
Liam: That seems complicated.
Sam: Are they on the highest peak?
Matt: No. There's two other levels up above this. This one just is one of the largest outcroppings.
Sam: I'm going to swoop up over them. See if there's any boulders to drop.
Matt: Okay. Looking over it, there are no loose rocks or boulders. In fact, because of the construction of these mountains, they're solid spires that jut up and then abruptly end. All the erosion that happens here appears to be gradual enough-- that's why the sides of the mountains are so smooth and unclimbable.
Marisha: So there's a sheer peak and they're nested on the side of it?
Matt: Yeah. It's a sheer peak that rounds off at the very top and there are little outcroppings that jut out in places as it goes down. But those are more towards the top, and as you go down further-- as most of the erosion hits the mountain lower and lower, it has carved off or destroyed most of what would have been previous outcroppings, or smoothed them over.
Travis: How far away are we now?
Matt: You guys are probably a good 60 or 50 feet if you're trying to get up within range of your Fly. Right? What's the range of on that? Fly?
Sam: Fly? Oh, here.
Matt: I got it. No! There is no range on it. You just touch them. So you're fine. Yeah. As long as you're concentrating on it, you're fine.
Travis: So we're within 60 feet?
Matt: Well, you guys have been keeping a little more of a distance down here. However, at this point, as you guys are all encroaching and Scanlan's gone overhead, a voice rings out against the darkness, "Flying cows? Really? I care not for this insolence. If you've come to mock me or fight me, do it now! Or leave this creature alone!"
Laura: What? Where are you? Who are you? Who said that?
Orion: I rolled an arcana check of 17 of my surroundings-- where it's coming from.
Laura: Ditto. I try to perceive where it's coming from.
Matt: Okay. Arcana check-- there's nothing arcane in nature. It's not omnipresent or coming from any certain place. There is a direction it's coming from, which is from the outcropping or nest area. There's nothing arcane in nature to it. It's in the shadow. You can't really see it from this distance.
Laura: Is it in front of us? To the side of us? Is it coming from where the bird seems to be?
Matt: It's coming from where the bird is.
Liam: He's controlling it.
Marisha: I fly over as an eagle.
Laura: You still look like a cow eagle.
Marisha: Can we drop Seeming?
Matt: It's not under your control, and you can't talk, too.
Travis: Okay. I yell out, you've been stealing the farmers' livestock. Give us a reason not to kill you.
Sam: That's good. That's good. Diplomacy.
Orion: Or, I mean, moo!
Matt: Okay. You guys are all keeping distance from it? The voice comes out again, "Your nature confuses me and your words seem ill-informed. If you're not going to come to speak of discourse, I'm going to assume that that you're my enemy."
Orion: Then, as he's saying that, I'll approach.
Matt: So Tiberius cow goes.
Orion: And as I approach the thing, I'm going to Dispel Magic on myself.
Matt: Okay. Cool. For Dispel Magic, I need you to go ahead, just for the sake of this-- I won't consider it contested because you're allies in this thing. So you land. Tiberius' form shimmers and returns back to that of a dragonborn, and you're standing there on the precipice. Go ahead and roll a perception check.
Orion: What is that? 11.
Matt: Okay. It's hard to make out the details, but the voice is definitely coming from the nest. You see there is something vaguely humanoid, but it's hard to make out the shape at this distance with this low light, especially since you aren't a darkvision-gifted entity. However, it's close to this bird creature.
Orion: I'm going to say, is this big bird thing asleep?
Matt: "You will not harm this creature, poachers!"
Orion: I'm not trying to harm it at all. I'm just seeing if it's fine. If we could talk. I can't see anything, and I wanted to cast Light so I could see something, but I don't want to hurt your bird's eyes.
Matt: You can see the bird's moving and it's looking towards your direction. And it has this like (soft snarl).
Orion: So it's awake?
Matt: It's awake, and it looks hurt. The voice is like, "You come here masqueraded as whatever manner of beasts that you are--"
Orion: Cows. We were cows.
Matt: "After tormenting and severely wounding this beautiful creature."
Orion: We didn't do anything to the creature. No, we were-- This creature was stealing the farmer's cows, and the farmers were saying, "You've taken our livestock," which is hurting the farm. We came to help them and we posed as cows, and then your bird took our--
Liam: While he's blithering, can I make an additional cow stealth check?
Matt: To?
Liam: To come up behind the guy. Near him. Not even near him. Just to get a better vantage point.
Matt: Go for it. Make it with a disadvantage.
Liam: Does that cancel out with my advantage from my cloak?
Laura: A cow in a cloak.
Matt: You are a flying cow in the moonlight against an individual that is very aware of your presence.
Liam: Shut up, baby, I know it. (laughter)
Liam: That is good.
Laura: That's 31.
Liam: Yeah. 31.
Matt: (chuckles) You stealthily cow your way up to the side of this precipice. Seemingly unnoticed. Getting a view of this creature now, you can see this nest is a cluster of driftwood and chunks of shipwreck and carts and wagon wheels and whatever pieces of wood have been scavenged from different time periods. Some are weathered, some are more fresh. And trees, whole trees that are broken and shredded have all been cobbled together to make this nest. In the center of this-- I'm going to take the intensity down on this a little bit-- you see, there up against this bird-- and the bird itself is twitching and looks like it's hurt. Not deeply hurt, but hurt. You see a small humanoid. Pretty small. Scanlan small. Hard to make out details, but it is currently in the process of doing a repeated hand motion and then touching. A hand motion and then touching. And you've seen this motion before.
Liam: Touching what?
Matt: Touching the bird. There is a perpetual string of Cure Wounds being applied to this bird.
Marisha: I also approach and come out of my eagle form.
Orion: Light.
Sam: Are you landing somewhere?
Marisha: Next to Tiberius.
Orion: But I'm going to block it with my hand so it's not going to blind the bird.
Matt: Okay. As the light picks up, you can see the bird turns away for a second and starts to like flap its wings instinctually. And once again, seeing it up close, this bird is really big. The humanoid entity becomes immediately visible. And it is a gnome. You can see, he's dressed in hides and roughly crafted leather and furs. He has tousled, greasy black hair that hangs past his shoulders, covering a bedraggled and bearded face. Holding up his arm-- and looks thin. It's covering the light and he's like, "You!"
Orion: Sorry. I tried to not blind you. It was very dark. I'm sorry. Hello. We mean you no harm.
Matt: The gnome slams this small wooden, for lack of a better term, a small staff or cane. Slams it into the ground with a foot stomp and you can see the gnome's entire body suddenly begin to shift and change into this dark, gnarled-looking, hard surface.
Liam: I whack him in the back of the head.
Laura: No! It's just Barkskin! It's just defense!
Matt: He doesn't know. All right. So you cow stealth up to the side of this guy.
Liam: Let's get ready to rumble.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make an attack.
Liam: I pause.
Matt: You pause? You are currently now crouched right behind the edge of this nest, and you can't even actually see the guy anymore because in order to get up there, you've come underneath to stay hidden and you're just there behind.
Marisha: Can I see Vax?
Matt: No. Well, actually go ahead and roll a perception check. Is it higher than a 31?
Marisha: Is it higher than a 31? No.
Matt: You have no idea where Vax is.
Sam: I'm way up above them still, right? Do I see anything?
Matt: No, actually. You see, there's another section above there. It looks like there's nothing else of interest, other than some growth, a few bushes, and some vines that hang down the side.
Travis: Somebody talk to him before I kill this fucking bird.
Orion: I am talking to him.
Marisha: I land beside Tiberius and come out of eagle form. Tiberius, would you please Dispel this cow form from me. Please? Thank you.
Matt: Okay. And with that, you cast Dispel Magic and Keyleth's form reverts that to Keyleth. Normal Keyleth. Non-cow Keyleth. The gnome character now has the staff at the back and has a hand in front and is like, (panting).
Marisha: Are you a druid? I'm also a druid. I think our goals might be aligned.
Matt: "Really?"
Marisha: It's okay. What's her name?
Matt: "This creature has no name to it yet. I, myself, am a protector of the wild, as you claim to be, as well. I have no tribe but the trees around me. I hear the whisper of the wind, and it calls for justice."
Marisha: I can relate to that.
Matt: "Then why do you follow? Why do you insist on harming this creature?"
Marisha: Because we were seeking justice for other people.
Matt: "Why? For the civilized folk of the city? You should know more than most. They sit there, taking beautiful creatures of nature, making them fat and formless and worth nothing. To slaughter them without life and purpose to their existence."
Orion: The life and purpose of their existence is to keep those other people alive.
Matt: "And why is it not the same with this creature? If they cannot guard their livestock, why is it not food for this thing, as well? It is the natural life cycle that they've removed themselves from."
Orion: When one has an establishment, when one grows its own crop, and one steals something, it is considered a crime.
Matt: "Well, when one is not part of that civilization, but the civilization of the world as a whole, which requires hunting for what keeps you alive, perhaps that does not sink or hang on my conscience."
Orion: Fair point.
Marisha: Let's not let this escalate. Okay? What is your name?
Matt: "I was once called Byron."
Marisha: Vyron?
Matt: "Byron."
Marisha: Byron.
Matt: "I have not heard my name nor spoken words for many years."
Orion: Would you not like to be called Byron, or would you like something else, like B-roy or B-man? My name's Tiberius Stormwind from Draconia. And this is my friend Keyleth, who is also a druid. And we also have a friend who is a gnome who sings songs and whatnot.
Matt: The bird, now looking of much better health than it was when it arrived, now flutters its wings out in a stretching motion. And as it does, its head glides down and looks right towards you. This giant beak that looks like it could snap you in two with a single bite.
Marisha: I reach up to it and reach out to pet its beak.
Matt: I'm going to ask you to make an animal handling check on this. Just to see where this goes.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: I gently start swooping down to check on my friends.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: All right. The large bird-type creature retracts from your attempted touch and begins to rear back into the nest in a defensive position. Doesn't bite your hand off.
Marisha: I kneel down a bit. Produce a few Goodberries. Reach out.
Sam: Bye, Keyleth. This is how we lose one of our members. Feeding a bird.
Matt: The creature leans forward and the giant bird, you can see its dark, black eyes staring at you. Each eye probably about the size of your torso. As the giant beak comes down, you can see the moonlight gliding off the smooth exterior of the dark black beak. It smells. And you take 27 points of piercing damage as the animal takes the Goodberries and almost your entire hand with it, as well. At that size, it's hard to be gentle.
Marisha: It's okay. It's all right.
Matt: So you retract your hand, which is now essentially in many ways, bones are broken, feels like. There's blood streaming down the side of your hand, and (dripping).
Marisha: That's a good girl.
Sam: Is it?
Matt: Swallows.
Sam: Is it a good girl?
Orion: I'm feeding a tiny snack to Lockheed.
Marisha: I turn back to Byron--
Sam: And say, ow.
Marisha: Yeah, and go, that hurt. Now. Please listen to me. Please, please listen to me. We did come here to kill the giant creature.
Matt: "I had assumed."
Marisha: But upon seeing the situation, upon approach, realized the situation and decided amongst all of us that we did not want to bring such a great creature to its death.
Matt: Scanlan, you've landed by now. A pterodactyl. A cow-looking pterodactyl.
Orion: As he swoops, I've never seen anything quite like it.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Orion: I'm going to aid her, too.
Sam: All I've seen so far is Keyleth's bloody hand.
Marisha: 20 total.
Matt: You have advantage on this because Tiberius is aiding you on this conversation.
Marisha: I'll take that 20 total.
Matt: All right. He looks at you. "Well, shall you leave us, then?"
Marisha: Under one condition.
Matt: "There's always a condition. You call yourself a druid, yet you speak like the civilized folk. I get the feeling that perhaps your connection to nature has not been tended to for some time."
Orion: No, she really knows her stuff. I mean, we just fought this fire guy--
Marisha: Just because one can appreciate nature, does not mean that one cannot also appreciate humanity.
Matt: "Well, this beautiful creature is the only surviving young of a clutch, bred by a majestic roc high in the Cliffkeep Mountains. Its mother now lies dead, slain by the brutal giants that wander those peaks. This young'un is all that remains of that clutch and the memory of that blessed entity."
Travis: That's a young'un?
Matt: This is a young one. "This new home serves us well. Abundance of feed. Lack of large, predatory creatures. I believe this is where we'll stay."
Marisha: Question. If this is a young, adolescent creature, what do you think of the destruction it could cause once it reaches full adulthood? Are you okay with having that on your conscience? This creature could result in the lives of many. If you relocate out of town, just a few miles. Say like 50 or 100 or so because this thing's really damn big. So I'm sure it's got a pretty big-- you know what I mean.
Orion: Or just the other way.
Marisha: I will help you. I will personally come with you and tend to their safety. And make sure that their location is proper and safe, and handled with respect. Then you will be out of the harms of poachers. You can live off the land, and you can be free and alone.
Matt: "Do you think we came straight to this mountain range? Do you think this is the first nest we've constructed? Me and this lone survivor have scoured the length of this side of Tal'Dorei. This, as far as I can see, is the safest. It's the most ignored by nearby civilization."
Marisha: Listen--
Sam: I'm going to drop Seeming and also drop my form of pterodactyl.
Matt: All of you now, your forms change. As this happens mid-sentence, it's noticed immediately by the gnome druid, who's like (gasps).
Marisha: Yes! That is correct. Listen. We are being nice. Don't think that we will be the first. You will have more people come and hunt you and kill this, as this beast continues. How long do you think you can survive waves of mercenaries coming to try and kill this? We are the nice ones. I suggest you heed our warning, take our help, and save the life of you and your creature in the long run.
Matt: "You have yet to provide a suitable alternative."
Orion: Oh! I might have an idea.
Marisha: There is an alternative. Tiberius can tell you of that alternative.
Orion: Yes! See, your creature is rather large and powerful, yes? You have a rather strong bond with him, which is quite unique with such a unique looking creature.
Marisha: I was setting you up for an awesome one-liner, man! You were supposed to be like, the other option is death.
Liam: Ask him if he's considered Whitestone?
Orion: Whitestone? Yeah! Well, I guess there's a couple of options, really. There's this town Whitestone that's pretty great and has a lot of livestock that this creature can consume.
Marisha: Yeah, I don't know about that.
Matt: Go ahead and make a deception check.
Orion: That is a 24.
Matt: "Whitestone. How far is this Whitestone?"
Marisha: Wait! No! Hang on! No! This is getting out of control already. I will not let you all do this! No! Not today. You guys have caused enough problems. We are not going to push this creature on other people. I'm trying, all right? I'm working on it. I don't want to push this problem off on a town that's already being held hostage by vampires. That fucking sucks! That's double shitting on them.
Orion: Well, the other option was, like I was saying, perhaps you can form an agreement with Emon. I'm sure it would pay in livestock rather well for the protection of you, such a powerful druid, over at least a section of the land. In exchange for free food for your friend.
Matt: "You, dragon man, are adorably naive of the ways of men and those that lie and deceive. I have yet to have met any civilized people who have kept their word when it came to creatures like this."
Laura: Can I come forward? All right. What about Vasselheim? Not in the city, but outside of it. There's plentiful forests, tons of giant creatures it could feed on.
Orion: That's right! That's true!
Marisha: That actually is fairly true.
Laura: There's so many monsters out there, they don't hunt them all because there's too many.
Orion: That's a wonderful idea, Vex. Yes!
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Orion: I'll aid her, as well.
Matt: I'll say you've aided one person recently. This'll just be her check on this. He really doesn't trust you, given the current circumstances.
Laura: 21.
Matt: Natural 20.
Laura: Then as a natural 20, you know that's good for you. That's the best place you can go. You can see the wisdom in my persuasion.
Orion: It is true, though. I mean, it's just feed walking all around for it.
Marisha: Please, please listen to us. We're only trying to help.
Sam: Is there a young creature around here besides the--
Matt: No, looking about you, no.
Sam: There's no babies there?
Matt: No. This is the young. This bird is like the adolescent.
Marisha: Please believe me. I let this thing almost take my hand off, and I'm still standing here fairly cogently talking to you, so please take that as a sign of honesty.
Laura: I go and put my hand on her back and cast Cure Wounds, because I got that spell now, yo!
Sam: Where are we telling them to go?
Travis: To Vasselheim.
Sam: Vasselheim?
Marisha: Listen. She's right. We have friends in Vasselheim. We can contact the Slayer's Take. We're a part of their guild. We can tell them that you're coming. They'll not bother you. We can tell them they are not allowed to take out a contract on your creature. You will not be harmed.
Laura: Don't bring up contracts, Keyleth. Maybe just don't even bring it up.
Marisha: Because they don't have mercenaries out there. It has to be approved! So it's really good.
Matt: "And what's to stop them from hunting down a majestic creature as rare as this one?"
Orion: Us!
Matt: "You, who live here in Emon?"
Orion: Yes. No, us who are members of the guild.
Matt: "So you also are monster slayers, who come here under the guise to slay this monster?"
Orion: No! Not here. Other places that we're forced to do it. But still we're members.
Matt: "It's too much talk."
Travis: Can we kill this thing now? You guys are doing awesome.
Marisha: I feel like I've done pretty damn good! Come on, man!
Sam: I start speaking in Gnome to him. Listen. Earlier, you said that this place was perfect. It was safe. There were no large predators. Well, you're looking at six large predators. We'll keep hunting you down and hunting your beast down until you get out of here. This is your one and only warning. You must leave, and you must leave now. We're giving you a good choice, a safe choice. We can help you get there and be safe there. But if you don't listen to us, we'll start killing.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Marisha: How many fucking persuasion rolls does this asshole need?
Sam: Persuasion?
Matt: This is essentially a conversational skill challenge. So every success and failure leads towards where the conversation's going to end.
Sam: 32.
Matt: He gives you a look. Very intense, looking into your very essence-type stare. His little beady gnomish eyes meeting yours. (sighs) "If we're going to make this journey to where you say this Vasselheim is, how far is it?"
Sam: Several days' journey.
Laura: It's just across the water. You could fly no problem over it.
Matt: "Across the sea?"
Travis: It's across the sea.
Sam: We can draw you a map. We can give you provisions. We'll even make sure the farmers provide you with a few pieces of livestock to chow down on before the journey. A parting gift to fuel up before the big ride. We can give you papers to hand to the Slayer's Take that will ensure that you'll be treated fairly.
Orion: I'll take out my Scroll of Telescription and start writing a note.
Matt: He looks back towards Keyleth, looks back at Scanlan, looks back at Keyleth, looks up at the bird.
Marisha: Please. We really don't need another death on our conscience today.
Matt: "Then looks like we don't have much of a choice, do we? If you can assure us enough food to get across on this journey, we'll make our way towards this Vasselheim. I pray on the solidarity between our kin, and our kin, that you speak the truth that resonates this moment. Because if it does not, may the fall of this entity and myself weigh on your conscience."
Orion: I flip over the note that I'm writing to him and then I trigger it (flying noise) as he's reading it.
Matt: All right. It (poof) vanishes. "As the sun rises, two sizable pieces of livestock to be placed at the boundaries of the usual hunting site. If those are there, and it is taken without any sort of aggression, we'll take that as a sign that you are being honest, and we shan't bother you or your people any further."
Sam: I bow deeply and when I do, it goes (cowbell ringing).
Matt: For a moment, you think you hear a slight, uncontrollable chuckle from the gnome.
Orion: As that's going on, because we're going to head back right now to seal this up, right? Then I'll do my Teleportation Circle. Which is closer to the northeast: the Lyceum or the Keep?
Matt: To the north side of it? That would be the Lyceum.
Laura: We could fly back pretty fast. Couldn't we?
Matt: If he has another Fly spell, you could take it right back.
Laura: Yeah, we can just fly back.
Marisha: Before he leaves. Well, wait! We've got to go to the farm.
Sam: We've got to go to the farmers. We've got to buy some cows off them.
Marisha: And I tell him, if you're up that way, there's a druidic tribe, a little village called Pyrah. They're Fire Ashari. You can find their headmaster Cerkonos. He's a friend. You might find your people there. Who knows? Maybe friends will do you good.
Matt: "Ashari, you say? My dealings with them have been mixed. Perhaps I'll keep my distance."
Laura: Can I see if there's any feathers dropped from the giant bird creature?
Matt: There are ample around.
Laura: Can I grab a few of them?
Matt: As you go and reach up, slaps you across the knuckles.
Laura: Can I have a feather that he dropped?
Matt: "Why?"
Laura: Because they're beautiful. You have to admit they're beautiful.
Matt: (sighs) "Elves. All right."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: You take three roc feathers.
Travis: They're huge, right?
Matt: Yeah. They're almost boat size.
Orion: I put one in my Bag of Holding, too.
Matt: You guys manage to get one for you and three for you guys before he's like, "Now go! Now! My patience wears thin. I'm through with talking words." (sighs)
Sam: Sorry.
Liam: I walk out from behind him and just walk past.
Matt: (yelps)
Sam: (laughs) Sorry about that.
Orion: All right. I'll burn another 5th-level and then fly us all out.
Matt: Okay. You guys coast back to the north side of Emon. You go to the door where the Klaus family is, and you speak with them for a while. You manage to convince them of the situation and what seems to be a mutually positive circumstance. They agree it's better to lose two cows than continue this.
Laura: I pay them for their two cows. Being nice, man!
Matt: How much do you give them?
Laura: How much are cows usually worth?
Matt: You've never purchased a cow, so you don't know.
Laura: Yes I have! I purchased Dork the ox.
Matt: An ox is not a cow.
Laura: Shit! How much do your cows normally cost, darling?
Matt: This is a good question. Let me look in the book. I've not had to look up the cost of a cow before. I would put it at about maybe 40 gold each.
Laura: That's way more than I expected.
Matt: Because they can be used for meat, they can be used for milk.
Laura: 40 gold each to make up for the loss of your cows.
Matt: "Thank you so much. I greatly appreciate you helping with this. And you promise, this will--"
Sam: Yes, just put them out in the open field.
Travis: We'll take them.
Sam: Oh, we'll take them?
Travis: We'll put them out there. Stake them.
Sam: Okay, we'll take care of it.
Matt: You guys take two of the cows. You bring them to the outskirts. With rope tied around their neck, you essentially hitching-post them to the outside of this open area, about 20 to 30 feet from the actual holding pen. A few hours go by, and the sun slowly begins to rise.
Laura: Along with some other food, right?
Matt: Place some of their feed and things around there. Eventually, the sun begins to rise across the eastern sky. As it crests, you can see some of the farmers come out, anxiously watching from their homes. You see different families gathering. The wings beating in the air, and it swoops down (swoosh) and grabs two of them. You can see some of the families gasp and rush inside, and some are amazed to see this even happen. It takes the two, carries them up, and heads out over the Ozmit Sea, passing to the northwest side, and over the next 30 or so minutes, slowly disappears over the horizon until it's no longer visible.
Travis: The sun rose, right? Can I make a beard check? (laughter)
Matt: You may.
Travis: Two, zero.
Matt: With that, (creak) the beginnings of the other side of your beard slowly begins to set in.
Travis: What happens to the existing side?
Matt: The existing side has rounded itself off to a nice beard. It's pretty much where it's going to be on that side. The other side is now starting to finally catch up. And that's where we'll end: on a successful beard check.
Sam: Wow. That was a crazy night.
Travis: Perspiration was happening.
Marisha: Yeah, it was.
Sam: I gave you my hand.
Matt: More battle maps that will never get used.
Laura: Look at us not fighting things. That's really beautiful.
Matt: That would have been really bad, too.
Laura: I'm glad we didn't fight it.
Travis: Bad for us?
Matt: Well, just imagine a giant bird that grabs you and then drops you off the side of a mountain. Would have been an interesting fight. Cool. That concludes a unique Percy-less bottle episode of Critical Role.
Travis: Squadron of cows.
Matt: Squadron of flying midnight cows. That is probably the weirdest thing that's ever-- no, there's been weirder. That's in the top five of weird things that's happened in DND for me.
Sam: Fighting "formootion." (groaning) [end of transcript]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome, everybody, to Critical Role! Our Thursday night show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons and roll dice and all that fun stuff in between! So for all you new folks, welcome to our chaos. For all you old folks, thanks and welcome back. We have a number of announcements to get through. I'll try and cruise through them as fast as humanly possible. Pardon my phone as a reminder. Google docs are a delightful thing. Starting off, I wanted to direct all you Critters to our official Twitter, @CriticalRole, for official news and announcements. You're welcome to still tweet at us for individual cast fun but we do have our official source for all official announcements, times, and our appearances. That would be the one to pay attention to. Go to @CriticalRole, follow it and any important stuff that comes in the future will be available via that Twitter. Awesome. Next up this weekend we're all going to be at New York Comic Con, which is going to be awesome. We have a two hour block from noon to 2:00 PM Saturday, October 12th. Where is it at? What's the room?
Liam: It's a weird word, the Winga Stage?
Matt: It's not on the Google Doc. Curse you, Google doc! But Saturday from noon to 2:00 PM, and then on Sunday, for those who can't make the actual convention, we're having an off-site gathering of Critters at the wonderful and illustrious comic book store Forbidden Planet. That will be from 2:30 to 4:30. Our time block shifted a little later in the day. 2:30 to 4:30, Forbidden Planet, we'll be there. We'll be signing autographs, meeting you guys, chatting it up, and we'll be debuting our brand new awesome poster here, exclusively for the New York Comic Con. Our Critical Role poster! We're super excited about it. This was wonderfully designed by one of our fellow Critters Joma Cueto. Joma did the art and Kim Davis did the actual layout and design. Both did an amazing job. We're going to have a bunch of these available. We'll be signing them for you guys, and we'll hope to see you there.
Liam: I love it.
Travis: They are pretty sexy.
Liam: We're going to be on the Wikia stage.
Matt: The Wikia stage on Saturday, near hall 1A, the Wikia stage at noon to 2:00 PM. Come find us on Saturday, we're going to be there. Also, a ton of mail was recently received just after Critmas. If your gifts weren't seen this last Critmas, they're probably in this batch. So next Critmas is probably going to be a long haul. It's going to be a doozy! But we're excited about that. That'll be the first Thursday of November, so look forward to that happening then. Next update. If you haven't been paying attention, we've been having occasional interviews once a week of our cast going up on Geek and Sundry's website. Today we had Travis's go up and if you haven't checked them out you should. It's a little step into our mindset, our crazy history and background of how this whole thing got started. Silly things ensue. So go read them if you have the chance, if you haven't yet. Or wait until after the show. Also, as of today we now have in the Geek and Sundry store Critical Role key chains and necklaces.
Laura: They look so cool.
Matt: Pretty rad. I'm really excited. They're metal and awesome. They're of our logo and if you feel like being as nerdy as we are and want to adorn your key chains with them, they are there available for your purchase.
Laura: They're custom order, so they make them when you order them. It takes a few weeks to get them once you order them, but it's worth it.
Liam: They have to come all the way from Kraghammer.
Matt: Mithril's hard to sculpt properly. Takes a while. Couple of other things, LARP: the Series, one of the live action series here in Geek and Sundry. Season two just premiered today. It's a really cool series that both has moments of drama and comedy that plays into the whole world and lifestyle of the LARPing game systems and the people. It's a really cool series. Check it out if that's your kind of bag. It's good stuff, really funny. Next Monday starts a new show called TPK Monday Nights, where our illustrious Ivan, who hosts many wonderful things here, will be running for the rest of October a group of other individuals through the RPG Outbreak Undead, which is actually a really cool RPG that Ivan actually designed and was in the whole process for, so it's Monday nights, check that out the rest of October! To keep the Halloween theme, we will probably be getting dead repeatedly at the hands of Ivan, so look forward to that. This is the last week you can buy the #NoShaveTil10k shirts. We have people who are keeping it up. I had to shave for Vin Diesel, but the rest of the month is straight on this now, largely for my Halloween costume and for this wonderful event. 20% of all proceeds from those shirts goes to the Extra Life charity we've been supporting, it helps out good people.
Zac: I drew that shirt, by the way. I had to look at his face for 12 hours.
Travis: You're welcome.
Zac: We've already hit 9,100. Protocol95, you are the first winner of the night!
Matt: Protocol95, congratulations. You will be winning the first bundle. Every 100 subscribers there will be another giveaway within the chat room. You have to be active in the chat to be up for it. It includes a cast photo signed by the cast of Critical Role, possibly signed while he's wearing that awesome beard. And a wonderful piece of art from our main artist Kit Buss, also signed by the cast of Critical Role. So every 100 subscribers, that giveaway goes out in the chatroom. Be active and bring your friends on to subscribe so you can win one. Last thing I want to mention, this has been a question that's come up quite a bit, some people are definitely eager to hear the information, so I had the pleasure on Monday this week of designing and running a very quick game of Dungeons and Dragons for Vin Diesel.
Liam: What? (laughs)
Matt: Let's just cross that bucket list item off immediately. That was ridiculous. So it was a lot of fun. He was fantastic, super awesome, genuine, and was really excited--
Laura: He rolled this die. It's sacred.
Taliesin: It was literally bucket list! That was one of the things we discussed when this game started; it could lead to a game with Vin Diesel.
Marisha: I bet if you go back and look at the Q and A session we had, someone asked our dream game crew--
Matt: Vin Diesel was one of our bucket list players. So we've already knocked one off on the show.
Taliesin: It's like a group mass suicide at this point.
Matt: Get matching tennis shoes, and it'll be great.
Liam: You didn't seem that excited, though.
Zac: We can already announce that next Thursday at the midpoint--
Matt: Next Thursday at the midpoint of next week's Critical Role, we are going to show a mostly complete video of that game. The full one will be released shortly thereafter, but next week, on Critical Role during the midpoint, we're going to show you the majority of that game session with him. Don't miss that.
Orion: Can I get a teaser? What did he smell like?
Liam: Iron.
Travis: Quarry.
Laura: Muscle.
Taliesin: Antifreeze and lilac.
Matt: All of those answers at once. A majestic scent. It was delightful. We'll have interviews going up throughout the week, exclusively next week here on Thursday you'll be seeing most of that game here and then more stuff's coming out for the week thereafter. Really excited about that, and I custom-made a witchhunter class for him that I tailored for that level, and there's been such a wide response for everyone asking about the class that I've now spent a lot of my free time that I'm not preparing for this game now customizing a homebrew witchhunter class for all of you to partake in. So that'll be fun and probably coming out sometime next week. It'll probably be broken. You're welcome to homebrew my homebrew, I'm not perfect, but it should be fun and a cool guide for some people to give it a shot as a player class, so look forward to that. Liam, you got a couple things to announce?
Liam: Yeah, just two things. I wanted to thank every Critter who helped out with Joe Madureira's Kickstarter with Airship Syndicate's Kickstarter for Battle Chasers: Nightwar. They crushed it. They got to almost every rung of their ladder. Maybe you guys could help them raise 100k tonight. But Joe told me that they saw a little bit of a bump every Thursday, and that our roleplaying power had some effect, so thank you guys, thank you very much.
Travis: Because we are many.
Matt: We are legion.
Liam: The other thing is tomorrow is Sam Riegel's birthday.
Travis: Nipples, is it really?
Liam: I have a birthday present for him tonight. Something I commissioned the lovely Kit Buss to make for you.
Sam: What? It's Vaxmas?
Liam: It's Vaxmas. Here it is. I'm going to send it across and then I'll tweet it out. You guys can look, but I made this just for you.
Sam: I'm not looking.
Marisha: I made this just for you.
Sam: Oh wow, that's really nice! I thought it was going to be vulgar. Wow. That's so sweet.
Travis: Kit Buss, why are you the best?
Sam: Thank you, Kit Buss. Me and two ladies, what could be better? Right?
Travis: I guess three ladies.
Sam: I don't know how to put this up, but thank you. That's so sweet. Aw. I won't kill you tonight.
Orion: Fun fact  Sam shares a birthday with my mom. That's why I'll never forget your birthday, ever.
Sam: And John Lennon.
Marisha: Happy birthday, Orion's mom.
Laura: Yeah. Happy birthday, Sam.
Matt: Happy unbirthday to Sam's mom, who is also a Critter. You should go follow her on Twitter.
Marisha: Momlan.
Liam: She's not effing around, either.
Matt: Any other announcements? Or shall we dive in?
Laura: I have one. I got nominated for a Golden Joystick award.
Matt: Really?
Laura: Yeah, for Fiona in Tales from the Borderlands.
Matt: That's awesome! (cheering)
Sam: Hey Travis, you didn't know this?
Laura: I didn't tell him. I think there's a week left of voting, so you can go and help out.
Orion: They can vote for you?
Laura: Yes, they can vote for me.
Sam: Can they vote many times?
Laura: I think you have to register your email address, so I don't know how many times you can vote, but you have to vote in all the categories in order to vote for the one category.
Travis: Congratulations, Laura.
Laura: Thanks, baby!
Marisha: As Orion says, release the Critters.
Matt: That's awesome. Go show your support for Fiona, and awesome! Let's go ahead and bring the mood back to our realm of imagination and fantasy and be back here in just a minute with the beginning of this night's Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: So to get you guys caught up on what happened recently, the group, having heard that the Briarwoods, a couple who had taken power in the town of Whitestone far to the northeast, apparently responsible for the destruction of Percy's entire family and his escape into the wilds of Tal'Dorei, were going to be coming to Emon to bridge a political handshake with Sovereign Uriel and all of Tal'Dorei proper to build a bridge across the channel that separates this continent from Wildemount across the sea. Upon hearing this, the party was planning to gather information, and in doing so Vax got himself caught by sneaking into their bedroom and was nearly killed in the process. The group managed to aid him, pull him out from the jaws of death, and the Briarwoods escaped through arcane means, leaving a shattered carriage, a mostly beaten driver of their carriage. Through the scuffle, a number of guards were hurt or killed, and the party, upon meeting an individual named Lilith, a tiefling, leading her back to the Keep, they were attacked, or seemingly attacked, by a series of bounty hunters that were after her. There was some intense violence displayed against a few of them, and this all got back to the Council. The Council called Vox Machina to the central palace and began a trial to see if they were responsible for attacking guests of the Council, ruining what could've been a very lucrative union between the two towns and possibly murdering an old woman. They had their membership revoked, and during this sequence, apparently the charmed Seeker Asum was restored, seemingly to little effect. The group then left, realizing that perhaps the moral ramifications of their actions are having a bigger impact due to their visibility and their heroic status in the kingdom at large. When they returned to the keep, they found two representatives of the northern farmers of Emon that required aid; their livestock had been stolen over the past few weeks and was putting them in dire straits when it came to the necessary amount of meat they had to raise. The group, trying to turn their morality on its head, decided to aid, waited out in the center of the cow pasture at night, masquerading, through illusionary magic, as cows themselves. The giant roc, a gargantuan bird, swooped down and grabbed Cow-leth, Keyleth, here. Swept her away. The rest of the party, Tiberius enabled to fly through arcane means, and thus we had a squadron of evening cows chasing after the roc, which then got turned into a cow, to crash into a mountain. They chased it back to its perch up in the Cliffside Mountains to the northwest of Emon.
Liam: Such an old trope in fantasy.
Matt: Isn't it, though? "Cow-mouflage." And engaged a guardian of this roc, a gnome druid who had been removed from society for quite some time. After some rather roundabout and at some points on-the-edge-of-conflict conversation, they managed to convince him to instead take the bird and flee across the Ozmit Sea, to the northwest, towards Vasselheim, where it would be a much better landscape for the creature to thrive and grow. After that, the party is making their way back. Right around the beginning of daybreak, towards the keep. So that is where we left off. Percy.
Taliesin: Yes? Hello.
Matt: Darkness. Cold, lonely darkness. A flicker of light. It swells, bright, white, blinding, then flashes of your family, screaming. Julius, silenced by a bolt to the throat. Vesper, thrown from a tower wall. Your younger brothers' lifeless bodies tossed in a pile. The smell of death filling your cell. Your father Frederick, a blade jutting from his chest, slick with crimson. Your mother, Johanna, burned with irons, screaming. Cassandra, running towards you, calling your name into the night, begging you to help. One, two, three arrows. She falls. Darkness once more. Darkness and red. Red of blood. Red of burning fire. The sky is fire. The world burns with flame and iron. The smoke rises from the cinders, coalescing into a face, black as soot with eyes as burning coals, and a wicked grin. It speaks with a raspy, rumbling bass, like a slow-moving landslide. "You hold your vengeance, Percival. You made it. You only need to take it for yourself. Make the world right. My gift is yours, and your gift shall bring justice. Our bargain stands eager to close." You suddenly come to consciousness, gasping loudly against the air. You feel the warmth of the forge across the side of the workshop crawling across your face. You are sitting at your workbench, having fallen asleep amidst a pile of contraptions in mid-construction. As you look around, you can see your leather gloves are still on, apron on, blackened soot spread across your face, and a series of things you were in mid-build on broken before you on your workshop table.
Taliesin: (sighs) How long have I been here?
Matt: There's nobody in the room, and you have no idea. You're underground in the workshop. You haven't seen the sun probably for a good day and a half.
Orion: It's a new day. I didn't waste it at all.
Matt: You have no idea quite how long you've been down here, and you've been left alone for quite some time.
Taliesin: I'm going to head upstairs.
Matt: You go and open the metallic door that leads into your workshop and come around the corner, and there's a chair set in the corner, where Jarett would be sitting, one of the head guards at your facility. Jarett, however, is standing, hands up to his throat, going (choking sounds) with no visible assailant.
Taliesin: (shouting) Help!
Sam: Are we there? No, we're not even there.
Matt: I want you to go ahead and roll initiative.
Sam: Oh shit, it's already started!
Laura: Trinket was down there.
Sam: Was?
Laura: Don't say that!
Sam: Just saying that Trinket died already.
Laura: Don't say it.
Taliesin: Natural 20. 28. (cheering)
Matt: And that's how Percy does it.
Travis: What is with that dice and you, man?
Liam: You are the yin to Wil Wheaton's yang.
Taliesin: He was sitting here 20 minutes ago. I rubbed him for luck when he was leaving the building.
Marisha: No, we have him. It's balance.
Matt: All right. So what's your total?
Taliesin: 28.
Matt: 28. (laughs) You are definitely-- Okay. You are up first. What do you want to do? As you come around the corner and you see this visual in front of you. If you want to go ahead and roll for Trinket, too.
Laura: (worried noises) Oh no!
Taliesin: So I just see him up like this?
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19? Nice.
Taliesin: Just for some reference, does it look like he's possessed, or does it look like he's trying to remove something?
Matt: It looks like he's trying to remove something from around his neck, and looking down, you can see his feet are actually off the ground, kicking. It looks like there's a little bit of air wisping around behind him.
Taliesin: How insane would it be to try and make a shot beneath his legs?
Matt: You can certainly go for it and try.
Taliesin: I'm going to drop down. Can I make an aimed shot against something I can't see?
Matt: You can try, it'll be with disadvantage, but you can definitely make it.
Orion: He's in the kitchen?
Laura: No, he's downstairs.
Sam: Can I request that the rest of us do the sounds of the ricocheting bullets in case he misses?
Taliesin: Okay, I want 5.1; start here and make it all the way down.
Laura: But you're not going to miss, so it doesn't matter.
Taliesin: I'm going to take an aimed shot for my first shot, and then start firing blindly.
Matt: This will be disadvantage against an invisible assailant.
Travis: It misses?
Taliesin: It missed. I'm just making sure I didn't misfire. No, I didn't! Thank god.
Matt: So what's the total?
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: Total of 15? Still hits.
Taliesin: Still hits? 15 hits? Oh, that's 16 points of damage, and he has to make a constitution saving throw to not be knocked prone.
Matt: Okay. What's the DC on that?
Taliesin: Where is my DC? DC of eight plus my proficiency mod, plus my dexterity mod, so 19.
Matt: Sure enough. You see all of a sudden the air go (gasp) and Jaret falls to his knees (coughs).
Taliesin: I'm going to take two more shots right above his head.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: Don't hit Jarett.
Matt: Jarett's on his knees, prone, essentially.
Sam: He could still hit Jarett! He's our best guy.
Matt: You still have disadvantage on these.
Taliesin: I don't?
Matt: No, you still have disadvantage on these. It is still an invisible creature.
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Taliesin: That's 13.
Matt: 13 does not hit.
Taliesin: No, 13 points of damage.
Matt: Oh. Yes.
Taliesin: And then 20 again.
Matt: 20 hits.
Taliesin: Nine points of damage.
Matt: Nine points of damage. (gunshots) The gunshots are echoing through the hallway. Whatever this weird entity is, you can see some of the nearby cloth and dust swirl up from its movement, you hear this (gasping sound), this angry sucking sound in the air around you. Do you want to move, or are you staying where you are?
Taliesin: I'm going to stay where I am. And I'm going to keep yelling. Help! I don't think I have an earring.
Matt: You see some sort of shimmer of wind come around the corner towards you. This one turns around and (whooshing sound) over to the bars, and you can see in the distance, it's moving over towards where your captive currently is.
Orion: How far away are we from the keep?
Matt: I'm getting to that. At the end of this combat round, all of you guys are right toward the outskirts of the keep, and you hear the muffled ringing of gunshots from the inside of the keep.
Orion: We do hear that.
Matt: You do hear this as you're just getting to the outer gates.
Orion: As soon as I hear that, I cast Fly on myself and (whoosh).
Laura: Are you wearing an earring, Percy?
Matt: No, he is not. The entity swooshes down the stairs and comes at you. That's going to be a 22.
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: And a 12.
Taliesin: That does not.
Matt: It swings towards you, and a giant slam of extremely condensed air with a raking claw impact hits you in the torso, doing 15 points of bludgeoning damage. The other one swings out, same direction. This time you actually pull off to the side and knock it out of the way with your Pepperbox. The one back there is going to attempt to grapple. Succeeds. That's its action, and you can see the driver that you had put into prison is currently being (choking) making strangling sounds in the distance. That ends it. Trinket's up.
Laura: Trinket. He can see Percy getting attacked and instinct takes over, and he runs forward and he claws him.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for the attack.
Laura: That does not hit. That's a natural 20.
Matt: That will hit! (laughs) It begins.
Laura: Oh, that's the wrong thing. That's a 2d4.
Matt: So roll 2d4 and then multiply those by two.
Laura: 17 damage.
Matt: 17 damage, nice. Trinket runs up, coming out of his somewhat sleepy stupor, goes for a bite attack and grabs nothing with it, and turns around and rakes a claw backwards, manages to get the back of whatever this entity is, and you hear it scream (gasping scream). You do, at least.
Taliesin: I have a technical dispute, really quickly. Could the wraith have gotten that far, since I knocked him prone?
Matt: Yes, it could've, because it uses half its movement speed to get up.
Taliesin: Oh, thank you. Never mind.
Matt: Its movement is actually 50.
Taliesin: Ignore me! 50?!
Matt: Not that you know that. But it moved far for what you think it should've been able to.
Orion: By the way, for the record, Matthew, I have no idea what we're fighting.
Travis: Nobody does.
Orion: I'm just saying, I haven't meta-gamed here.
Matt: Congrats. (laughs) I'm proud of you.
Liam: Fresh start.
Matt: Jarett then gets up, sees this happening, moves over, and pulls out the key to try and open the prison door. Spends the turn doing so. Manages to get the door open. That's the end of Jarett's turn. Okay, now, the rest of you guys roll initiative.
Travis: Okay. Come on, you giant ball-bearing. Damn.
Laura: Does that count, if I hit it into my box and it slammed into the side? Does that count, or should I let it roll naturally?
Matt: Let it roll naturally. That would normally count, but it's fine. Wherever it lands, you take it, going forward. Okay, so 25 to 20?
Sam: Oh, initiative?
Taliesin: Keep up, people! Come on.
Matt: You hear the gunshot. You're entering this intensity.
Sam: I don't think it's anything. I think it's just him tinkering.
Matt: So Scanlan stays behind. 25 to 20? 20 to 15? What are your scores?
Liam: 15.
Orion: 15.
Laura: 17.
Marisha: 16.
Travis: 16.
Taliesin: Thank you all, by the way, for leaving a bear on suicide watch. That was really cool.
Laura: You're welcome.
Matt: Vex, what'd you get again?
Travis: 17.
Laura: I got 17.
Sam: He got 15.
Matt: 15, Tiberius. And what'd you get, Vax?
Liam: 15.
Matt: 15, all right. Three 15s.
Sam: I got three.
Matt: You got three? Okay. All right, so you guys all spend your turn, if you choose to, to rush through the gates. As soon as the gunshots go off, you can see Shayne's up on top, and she sees it, gives a quick turn, and you can see the gates begin to open, and you hear this angry grunting as your half-orc guard is now pulling the doors open as fast as he can. You guys find a moment and slip through, running towards the front of the keep. You guys manage to get, with full dash and full turn, including your flight-- because you fly a little bit faster, but you have a little more of an arc to get over-- you guys get to the front of the keep this turn. So you won't get into this until next round. That brings it back to the top. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: (sighs) There's no way I can fire at the one who's far away from me right now, is there?
Matt: It's hard to see.
Laura: But Jarett's got him.
Taliesin: I can ignore cover, though.
Matt: You can ignore cover, but you have this entity in front of you. I mean, you'll be at disadvantage regardless, because you're shooting at something invisible, and you have something that's in melee of you and you have a ranged weapon.
Taliesin: I'm going to see if there's a charge left in my glove and try and take the-- there wouldn't be a charge left in my glove, would there?
Matt: You glance down at the glove, and you see the gemstone in the center of the palm is currently dark and lifeless.
Taliesin: Okay. (sighs) Hold on, sorry.
Travis: Fan the hammer, motherfuck.
Taliesin: It gets weird when it's up close. Okay. Let's see what we do. All right. There's no way I can step back right now, is there?
Matt: Currently? I mean, you can if you want to. It'll get a free strike on you.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to try and take shots, then.
Matt: The one in front of you? Okay. Go for it. With disadvantage on each shot.
Taliesin: Firing with disadvantage? Screw it, I'm going to take my first one with sharpshooter to see if I can do any damage that way. Nope. Actually, that's a misfire.
Matt: So Pepperbox (explosion sound). You go to shoot, and--
Marisha: (ricochet sound)
Matt: The barrel gets clogged, and the front of it actually catches fire for a second, and you have to shake it out right now. It's completely offset, and it's going to take a moment to even get it to where you can fire again.
Taliesin: Okay. Do I have six seconds?
Matt: You do. And you've used one attack. You have two more attacks.
Taliesin: Well, it misfired.
Matt: Yeah, that weapon you have to use an action to repair.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to do something a little weird. I'm going to pull out Bad News. I know I can't shoot this close with it, or god only knows what would happen. I'm going to try and swing it like a pugil stick, and I'm going to try and hit him with the butt of Bad News.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a melee attack. This is strength-based. Add your proficiency modifier and your strength modifier.
Taliesin: 15?
Matt: You still have disadvantage on it because you can't see it. And you're not proficient.
Taliesin: 15?
Matt: 15 just barely hits. (cheering)
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll-- with the size of Bad News, I'd say 1d6, plus your strength modifier.
Taliesin: Four.
Matt: Okay, so four points of damage, as you bludgeon it. You took a turn to get it out. Your third attack is then slamming it in the side. Whatever entity you smacked gets pushed against the wall. Go ahead and roll a d20 for me.
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: Okay. So the impact does not appear to damage Bad News in this instance. It is a fragile construct, and even doing melee attacks with it does subject it to a misfire possibility.
Taliesin: I hit it with the stock, I was careful.
Matt: I know. Okay, so that concludes your turn?
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm kind of-- yeah.
Matt: Okay, you stay there. All right. The one that's in front of you now is going to go ahead and go over this way. Trinket-- well, no, it's still in melee, so it doesn't actually get an attack. It does get two strikes on you. That is a 17.
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: And that is 18.
Taliesin: Armor class is 18.
Matt: So it does just hit you.
Taliesin: Can I do that crazy thing?
Matt: No, I've eliminated that.
Taliesin: Oh, you've removed that. Okay, never mind. I don't have the new update, sorry. I don't have a dodge anymore, right?
Matt: No, the dodge is not there. It rarely came into play. Okay, so that puts you at another 15 points of bludgeoning damage as it just smacks you right across the head. Your eyes go dizzy for a second, and you take a minute to refocus your vision, and you can now see in the air, the shimmering expression that looks like a humanoid face stretched and ghastly going (gasps) in front of you, but it's still barely even visible, and only because of the proximity to you are you able to actually make out any sort of shape or shimmer in the air in front of you. The other one is attempting to choke out the prisoner. However, the prisoner resists through athletics, so he's currently holding back at bay the strength of the entity. That ends its turn. Trinket's up.
Laura: Trinket's up! He's going to try to jump and land on top of the ghostly thing and bite its face. I don't know how to do that.
Matt: (laughs) To do a real leap, Trinket would have to back up and then run towards it. If Trinket wants to do that. Okay. So Trinket backs up. As it does, it gets one free swipe at Trinket. That is 18 to hit.
Laura: I'm having an issue here. Because I have 18 in parentheses, and then I wrote a 20 and I circled it and I don't know why.
Matt: I don't know why, either.
Laura: 18 is probably--
Matt: Yeah, we'll say 18. So that hits. Trinket takes 15 points of bludgeoning damage as the entity swings out and backhands Trinket. However Trinket now leaps-- go ahead and make an athletics check.
Liam: He has better armor class than I do.
Sam: Does he have armor?
Laura: He does! He's got his bulette armor, man. He's a cannonball. What am I doing? A strength?
Matt: Athletics, yeah.
Laura: 17?
Matt: 17. Yeah. Trinket leaps forward, slamming this entity onto the ground and knocking it prone, and you get to go ahead and make a bite attack.
Laura: Yes! That didn't count because it slipped out of my hand. That was even worse than the other one. So 11. It slipped out of my hand. It shouldn't count if it goes like that! 20.
Matt: So Trinket manages to knock it prone, however, because it gets pushed out of the way, Trinket has a hard time, Trinket just makes a big slash and a bite out in the air where it once was and misses entirely.
Laura: But he's gone prone.
Matt: But he is knocked prone. Jarett's now going to attempt to grapple the entity.
Sam: Wait, Trinket missed? (ricochet sound) (laughter)
Matt: Jarett manages to reach out and grab onto whatever this creature is, hold onto it, just grappling, and is going to attempt to try and pull it back. For this, I will do a contested roll on that. It rolled a one. Jarett pulled it back that far, managing to let go of its quarry, and is currently holding onto some sort of angry, whirling entity at that point. That ends Jarett's turn. The rest of you guys all manage to make your way up into the armory up top. First is Vex. You rush in there, and what do you want to do?
Laura: I want to run down and shoot something.
Matt: Okay. You can get just about there.
Laura: Can I see anything? Can I ricochet an arrow to hit?
Matt: (laughs) I would say this guy has three-quarters cover, so it would be disadvantage on the attack. You already have disadvantage because it's invisible, so it's hard to hit, regardless.
Laura: That was the same one each time. 28.
Matt: 28? 28 hits.
Laura: Oh, I didn't fucking Hunter's Mark him. God damn it. Fuck. 15.
Matt: 15 points of damage. The first arrow sinks into whatever's there, and you can see it jutting out of no physical space.
Laura: Now I'm going to Hunter's Mark him and I'm going to hit him again. Can I do that?
Matt: Technically, it's part of your attack. You can do two attacks first, then you can bonus action, so you're like (arrow sounds) and then you Hunter's Mark it after.
Laura: All right. That one doesn't hit. Doesn't matter. Doesn't hit anyway. I missed it.
Sam: (ricochet sound)
Matt: Second shot shatters against the back wall of the stone. You can Hunter's Mark for your bonus.
Laura: I Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All right. Entity is now Hunter's Marked. That ends Vex's turn. Keyleth, you now also make your way into the doorway.
Marisha: How far can I get?
Matt: About there. Nothing's in visual sight right now, unfortunately.
Marisha: Nothing's in visual sight?
Matt: No, half of that was getting to that point. You could dash and try and make your way in, but you wouldn't be able to do anything.
Marisha: Can I dash and then make a bonus action?
Matt: You could, yeah. Your call. What do you got? Grog, you're on deck.
Marisha: I'll just wait.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth waits there. Grog, you're up.
Marisha: Let me just scootch over so I can be behind Vex.
Matt: You have a little better movement, so you actually manage to get two more squares in. What's your speed again?
Travis: 50.
Matt: 50? Yeah, you manage to get up to there, and now your turn begins.
Travis: I go into a rage, and I come in, and I turn to the right, and I run up as close as I can to Jared--
Laura: Jarett.
Travis: Yeah, Jarett. And wispy fuck.
Matt: All right, so you charge in. Angry, you see Jarett's currently reaching back and trying to go for his crossbow now that this entity's in his face. He's grappled it with one arm and he's reaching back to try and grab it. You come rushing in. Go for it.
Travis: I take out a holy oil vial out of the Bag of Holding, I crush it in my hand, and I take a swing at whatever he's holding.
Matt: All right. Cool. So as you pull out (glass breaking) the pain from the glass even further angers you in your rage. You can see a mix of holy water and blood trickle down from your fist as you clench it. Go ahead and swing for a punch with disadvantage.
Travis: That's a one.
Matt: So that first strike just whiffs over. Through your anger, you're unable to focus on where this entity may be.
Travis: Not off to a good start with this. Number two. Disadvantage. Fuck.
Matt: What's the total?
Travis: 15.
Matt: 15 just barely hits. Go ahead and roll.
Travis: One of these guys?
Matt: Go ahead and roll that. Half that damage, yes.
Travis: One. Plus rage, which is--
Matt: Plus strength.
Travis: Oh, right. Eight.
Matt: So eight points of damage to it. All righty. (whack) It hits, and you hear this (yelps) sound as it takes the impact, and you can see this strange, angry face appear suddenly out of the shimmering air that just then disperses again, and you don't quite know where it is. You can make a third strike now, if you want.
Laura: Did it do any holy damage?
Matt: Did not appear to have any additional effect on the entity.
Travis: Well, hell, it was worth a shot. Oh, at disadvantage. 19.
Matt: 19 still hits. Go ahead and roll the next attack.
Travis: Eight again.
Matt: Eight damage again. (whack) You backhand it with your third strike, this time finding the edge of its face again, and you see the chair right next to it tumble as it barely manages to catch itself and keep itself aloft. Nevertheless, this strange invisible entity is still there holding its ground.
Travis: Would you say the blood from my hand is splattering Jarett behind him?
Matt: You look over at Jarett. Jarett's currently trying to grab onto the creature and keep it grappled. So yeah, it's spattering on him.
Travis: I'm a painter.
Matt: (laughs) All right, that ends Grog's turn. Vax and Tiberius. You guys both get up to the edge of this room here.
Orion: Your cape is looking really nice, Vax.
Liam: I'm clicking my Boots of Haste, and I get double movement, so I get to go 60 feet. I'm going to slink up right beside Trinket and stab the shit out of this invisible thing.
Orion: Stab him! Hey, what do they look like?
Liam: So because Trinket's right there, this is a sneak attack. That hits. That is 29 to hit.
Matt: That'll hit. (laughter)
Matt: It is prone. It is invisible but it is prone, so that evens out to no advantage or disadvantage.
Liam: (counting) 25 for the first hit.
Matt: 25, all right.
Laura: Don't you double it? You had to double 19.
Liam: No, he didn't-- that's a critical hit.
Laura: Oh, right.
Liam: One shy. So now out comes the Dagger of Life-Stealing. It misses-- well, does 15 hit?
Matt: 15 just barely hits.
Liam: Just barely hits? Oh, that's better than I thought. That is three plus six is nine for damage, and then the Keen Dagger comes back, and that gets a 27, so that also hits for nine of damage.
Matt: All right. So as you rush over, you stab downward. You hear this (gurgle) sound as your blade comes down into whatever entity's there, and your hand moves around as it struggles against the blade. You pull it out, grab your other dagger, and then throw it in the air, catch it, slam it down again for that third strike, and then pull back and stab a third time.
Liam: And Trinket is very comforting, pressed against my shoulder as I do all that. He's supple.
Matt: Supple bear. #SuppleBear. All right, that ends your turn. Tiberius, what are you doing?
Orion: How far can I get?
Matt: That's about as far as you can get with your movement. You currently do not have visual on either of them. You're flying. What's your fly speed?
Orion: 60 feet.
Matt: You said that last time, and we found out it was 40, I believe wasn't it?
Orion: Was it 40? I thought it was 60. It was double the-- shit, hold on. I have a card--
Matt: You have a card and yet I find it faster.
Orion: 60 feet.
Matt: It is 60. You're right. Yeah, so you can go double. You are now just coasting down the stairway.
Orion: I'm going to attempt something I haven't actually tried before.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Orion: Because there's one to my right and one to my left, right?
Matt: Correct. There's one over here that has Grog and Jarett flanking. The other one has Percy, Vax, and Trinket all around it. That one's actually prone on the ground. It's hard to see normally; it's very hard to see now that it's swarmed.
Orion: Do I have visual of both wraiths?
Matt: You have visual of both entities, whatever they are.
Orion: Okay, sorry. I call them wraiths. Okay, so. I'm going to cast at--
Sam: Have we rested, by the way?
Matt: No, you have not rested yet.
Sam: So we're down a bunch of spells.
Matt: Yeah, you're still where you were when you came back.
Marisha: Well, to be fair, we talked. We didn't have a battle.
Sam: Some of us used spells. Fly and stuff.
Orion: I'm going to try to do this about now. I'm going to look to my right and my left and at 6th-level I'm going to try to do Glacial Blast and split the damage and try to hit both of them. Because it does 8d8 damage--
Matt: Are you doing this single-stream?
Orion: I'm trying to split my arc. So instead of doing this, I'm trying to-- (ice sounds)
Matt: Okay. How much damage is it?
Orion: At sixth level, it's 8d8 damage.
Matt: Okay, and what's the saving throw?
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17, okay. Jarett and Vax have to make saving throws, as well. Go ahead and make that. Jarett rolled an 18 and has high dex, so yeah, Jarett makes his save. That's half-damage for Jarett.
Liam: 28 for me.
Matt: All right. So you take no damage, because you're a rogue. Go ahead and roll damage. That's 18 for one. This one fails, this one succeeds.
Orion: Cool. Right hand does-- oh, sweet.
Marisha: No. That's a d10. These are d8s.
Orion: Sorry, my bad.
Matt: It's actually not prone. They're immune to being prone.
Orion: Right hand-- that's 14 to my right, and then 18 to my left.
Matt: So how much is that?
Orion: So 14 to my right, 18 to my left.
Matt: Okay. Got you.
Orion: The one that doesn't save gets (freezing sound).
Matt: It would if it wasn't immune. However, as you arc down, the ice blast comes through. You can see Vax manages to pull down to the ground and get out of the way in time. Jarett ducks out of the way and it blasts over, hitting both these entities. Ice crackles around both their forms, but then the forms shift out of it. That ends your turn right there. Comes back to Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, where am I?
Matt: You are right there. Just entered the room behind everybody else.
Sam: Where does Percy do his tinkering?
Matt: Over here.
Sam: Because I can't see what's going on down there.
Matt: No, you just see, currently, these three down the hallway. You can just see Tiberius blast a bunch of ice, arc in the air.
Sam: Okay, so I know there's shit going on down there, but I can't really see what. So I would probably just Dimension Door into the tinkering room, because that's where I assume Percy is. And then I see what's going on, and nobody's there. Do I have line-of-sight on anybody?
Matt: Currently, you see Percy through this doorway right there.
Sam: Okay. Well, then. I can move also, can't I?
Matt: Yeah, Dimension Door is your action.
Sam: I'll move towards him. Oh, then I see a crazy thing in front of me. Shit. So I probably take a couple steps back. (laughter)
Sam: And then I'll inspire Percy. (sings) All the single Percys, all the single Percys.
All: (sing) All the single Percys, all the single Percys, put your guns up-up-up.
Matt: d10 inspiration dice to you, Percy.
Taliesin: What is that, a d10?
Matt: d10, yeah. That brings it to the top of the combat round. Percy, you're up first.
Taliesin: I'm going to use my action to try and clear my gun.
Matt: Okay. So go ahead and make your check.
Taliesin: What is that again? Did it change since last time?
Matt: That one shouldn't have changed, no.
Taliesin: Okay, so it's 11. I'm adding my bonus die. God damn it. Nine.
Matt: Nine. As you pull over your Pepperbox, you're like, (ping). The actual barrel comes off and hits the ground and rolls off toward the back of the room.
Taliesin: I'm tossing it into my room. I'm using an action surge. Actually, can I even do that? Yes, I'm going to use my action surge, and I'm going to walk over to the wraith on the ground, put the barrel of Bad News up to it, and pull the trigger.
Matt: The wraith is no longer on the ground, by the way.
Taliesin: Is he not?
Matt: The entity actually, upon looking, is immune to being prone. So we won't retcon anything, but as you go to pull the barrel up, you can see now the face is standing up before you.
Taliesin: I'm just going to try and shove it until I hit something and then pull.
Matt: Okay, so go ahead and roll with disadvantage with Bad News.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Oh shit. We're all going to go deaf.
Laura: Oh man, that's going to be loud as fuck.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19. (gunshot) Bad News goes off. The sound is deafening in the room, the echoing of the explosion through the stone walls. I'm going to go ahead and have you roll a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Vax or Liam?
Matt: Vax. Both, maybe.
Liam: Roll a what now?
Matt: Constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: If you fail, I get to scream in your ear.
Liam: That is a 15.
Matt: 15, okay. You don't go deaf, but your ears are ringing very hard. The entity screams and then disperses.
Taliesin: I get a grit point back.
Marisha: You do! Dope.
Matt: Okay, so two more attacks. Or you have to use one to reload.
Taliesin: I have to use one to reload. I have one more attack, but I've already-- I didn't move. I'm going to try and roll around the corner and I'm going to take another shot. 27.
Matt: 27 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: 19 points of damage.
Matt: Okay. This time (gunshot), the shot goes off right by your head, Tiberius. You're flying in the air and you look down and see him pull Bad News out right beneath you, and before you have a chance to react, (gunshot) the flash of the muzzle just bursting forward, a big plume of black powder smoke fills the air around you.
Orion: So I see a big flash? And what do I roll?
Matt: Make a constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: Sorry.
Orion: Seven.
Matt: Okay, you are considered deaf until the start of his next turn.
Orion: Okay, so as soon as I see the flash, I go, (yelps). That's all I do. (laughter)
Matt: So that ends your turn, Percy? All right. Next, this entity that's Hunter's Marked is going to rush forward, straight out of the grapple from Jarett. Shifts right out of his hands. Is going to run forward and take the double attack against the prisoner. That's a 19 plus six. 25 hits. And 15 hits, as well. Takes 30 points of damage. Is currently unconscious. Punches him twice, and you see the poor driver is knocked up into the ceiling, falls down onto the bed, and is half-laying off. You see blood trickling down the front of his face, his eyes open, and slowly close.
Marisha: We need him alive.
Matt: That brings us to Trinket's turn.
Marisha: Come on, Trinket!
Laura: Trinket roars, rushes forward.
Matt: Actually, we're now going to roll Trinket into your turn.
Laura: Oh, all right. Then he stays there.
Matt: Okay. Trinket stays there until it's your turn. Jarett is going to rush forward and come to this corner. The crossbow is not much aid at this point. Reaches over and pulls out a short sword and lunges forward with the short sword. Yeah, with disadvantage, nine. Oh god. Rolls a 20 and a three. Great. Sorry, Jarett. Swinging through, trying to pierce through the bars at this entity, and can't seem to get any sort of attack to hit.
Laura: So he's actually locked in the thing still?
Matt: Jarett got the door open, he came through to try and grab the creature, and as he tried to pull it back, the creature sifted through his hands again to go ahead and attack the prisoner. That ends Jarett's turn. Vex, it is now your turn.
Laura: Okay. Can I move forward so I can see?
Matt: Yeah, you can see about there; it would give you visual on the entity.
Laura: All right. Yeah, I'll do that. I'll shoot him. He's Hunter's Marked already, okay, good.
Matt: He is, yes. So both attacks at disadvantage.
Laura: 15.
Matt: 15 hits. Just hits.
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16 also hits-- oh, 16 damage. All right. Including the additional Hunter's Mark?
Laura: Yes. And then 14 doesn't hit.
Matt: 14 does not hit. The arrow disappears in the back of the cell, scattering and shattering against part of the stone wall.
Laura: And Trinket, can he get up to him? Oh, but I took all the attacks.
Matt: Correct. So Trinket rushes up, but doesn't attack.
Laura: Trinket stays in the corner, then, because he can't do shit.
Matt: Okay. Trinket just cheers you on. (bear growl) Cool, that ends your turn. Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to-- seeing the direction that everyone's pointing, going to walk up and reach around Vex and I'm going to cast Faerie Fire right-- oh god, wrong direction. Right in the fucking eye. (laughter)
Liam: You turn on yourself.
Marisha: Crit fail. It's a 20-foot cube, so I want to cast it right in the cell.
Matt: Okay. So as you cast that, it's going to attempt to make its save. What's the DC on that?
Marisha: Against my spell's DC? 18.
Matt: And it fails with a 14. All right, so you guys watch as she reaches her hand out. The entire cell, all of a sudden there's a burst of purplish light, and these little dust-stars of purple glowing begin to drift down from the ceiling. As they do, they cling to whatever this form is, and you can now see, very clearly, this invisible entity that is surrounded in these purple sparkles. It looks humanoid from the torso up, but its legs are shimmering and shifting around. You now have a very clear look on it. You've nullified its invisibility.
Marisha: You have advantage now.
Matt: Gives advantage, as well? Yeah. You guys now all have advantage on this entity.
Marisha: And I'm going to take my bonus action to do Healing Word on the-- it's not Jarett that's unconscious, it's the cab driver. On the cab driver.
Matt: Okay, so go ahead and roll for the Healing Word.
Sam: Desmond. Jarett and Desmond.
Matt: How much does he heal?
Marisha: Six plus my spell modifier. So ten? Is that right, is that how it works? Plus my spell level? Is that what it is with Healing Word?
Matt: I think it's plus five, whatever it is. Healing Word, yeah.
Marisha: 1d4 plus my spellcasting ability modifier.
Matt: So it's plus six.
Marisha: Six, so 12.
Matt: 12. Got you. Okay. Desmond's eyes clarify for a second and he begins to breathe heavily. Still looking very wounded, but conscious and prone across the bed, as the entity that's Hunter's Marked is still looming over it, bringing its fists up for another round to try and finish its job. That ends your turn, Keyleth. Grog, you're up.
Travis: There you are. Hold still, Casper! And I run up and I swing. (laughter)
Matt: As you rush up angrily, make your strike.
Travis: That's 28.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: That's a 27.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Those would hit Tiamat.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17 also hits, so roll damage three times. As you rush up, the bars open, bringing the axe down on top of this now sparkling purple entity.
Travis: Ten, so 14 on the first one, plus fire damage.
Matt: Cool.
Travis: 17 plus-- 21. No. Is that right? Did I do that right?
Laura: Yeah?
Travis: Yeah. So 21. The second one.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And 17, 21 again!
Matt: Nice! All righty, so you run up (hammer strikes) hammer down a third time, you can see its body being beaten around by the attack. And you see the whispering of its wind around its lower body is starting to slow, and it's looking like it's getting more sluggish, but it's definitely still intent on its job. That ends your turn, Grog. Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right, in a split second I'm watching Grog take the thing apart. I size up everybody in front of me in the distance and I think I can Assassin Creed my way through the crowd because I can go 60 feet normally, so 30 feet if it's crowded, and I'm going to use Grog's proximity to take this thing apart.
Matt: Okay. I will say you would normally get advantage. Because you're attacking it through the bars, melee, it disables it, so it's just a straight attack. You're having to fight it through prison bars with daggers, which is difficult.
Liam: All right. So the first one is terrible, it's a 14.
Matt: 14 misses, unfortunately.
Liam: And that's where the sneak attack damage is, right?
Matt: Well, it's the first attack you get on it would get it. So even if you miss the first attack, you can still get it with the second and third.
Liam: All right. Third one is a 21.
Matt: That does hit.
Liam: So there's the delivery system, and that is the Keen Dagger. 26, 27, 32. 38.
Matt: All right. With that, the first blade comes through and you try and get it through the bars and it gets nothing. You pull back, take the other dagger and swing through it. Falls too wide and you have to bring your arm back. This time, you can see after Grog has slammed it with the hammer, it falls. The sparkles come towards the edge. Its slamming its back into the bars. It's right there in front of you, and you use that instance to go ahead and reach through the bars, grab it by the throat, and stab it repeatedly, at which point its form disperses into wind around you.
Liam: And I slap Grog on the back and say, you softened the shit of him. That's terrible English. You softened him up for me! Asshole.
Travis: You've been drinking?
Laura: (giggling) You softened the shit of him.
Liam: You shitted him up for me, Grog. Good job.
Matt: You guys look over. You see Desmond is still on the bed, eyes wide (panting).
Orion: I rush over to Desmond, and out of my pouch I bring out a sandwich that I had made earlier. I hand it to him and I go, Desmond, decker. Here, have it. It's a decker sandwich. You should have it.
Matt: Gets up on the bed and takes it. "What happened?"
Laura: I run up and I cast Cure Wounds on him.
Matt: Okay. So go ahead and roll for the Cure Wounds heal on that.
Travis: You casting that all over the place now aren't you, fancy-pants?
Sam: From the tinkering room I yell out, is it safe? Can I come out now?
Orion: It's safe.
Liam: There's four more of them. Stay back.
Sam: Oh! Okay. I'll stay.
Travis: I remember I have the holy oil in my hand, mixed with the blood, and I start blessing him. With bloody fist.
Laura: 17.
Matt: All right, awesome.
Laura: Do I add my wisdom to that?
Matt: You add your wisdom modifier.
Laura: Then it's 20.
Matt: That's good to know. All right, cool. All right.
Orion: How's that sandwich?
Matt: Desmond isn't eating it. He's just holding it and still taking in. "What happened? What was that?! Look, what was that thing?"
Travis: Yeah, what was that thing?
Laura: What was that thing?
Orion: I would say opaque buttholes.
Marisha: Can we do a check?
Matt: Make an arcana check.
Taliesin: I'll make an arcana check, too.
Sam: How did you get two?
Orion: I rolled one by accident.
Matt: If you rolled by accident, you have to roll intentionally to take the score. Because if you were to accidentally roll really bad, you'd be like, "That doesn't count! I didn't actually roll."
Orion: A hard 12.
Matt: Total of 12?
Liam: I rolled a 22 arcana check.
Marisha: 22?
Laura: Oh, he's faced these things before. That's what it is.
Matt: That's the thing, you've seen these. These entities are used by certain high-level arcane practitioners. They can be summoned as certain spells. They're air elemental-based in nature, but they're generally known as invisible stalkers. They're used as assassins that have a very sole, single-minded purpose.
Liam: All I know is they feel like the Briarwoods.
Matt: You get that, based on recent events, there's probably a good probability that was the source of this.
Laura: Do you know from your previous experience if there's any way to protect against them? Other than setting up walls?
Liam: Well, all I know is how to stick my face in the beehives, apparently.
Laura: Does anybody know how to protect against air stalkers?
Orion: Give me a day, I will find out.
Matt: Jarett, at which point has put his hand against the wall, and goes, "Ugh. I would recommend that next time you decide to put me on watch, let me know if we're up against things that are invisible. I apologize. I was not prepared for such a foe to show up."
Laura: We were unprepared to warn you. I'm sorry.
Matt: "It's all right. If I might ask, what exactly are we up against here?"
Travis: Fuck if we know.
Orion: Seems like we're up against either vampires or liches. Prepare the troops. There will be some changes made to the keep over the next couple of days. We shall shore up security, as well.
Matt: "I would like also to consider possibly some changes made to our income, as this suddenly turned from a general guarding job to going up against the denizens of the afterlife. It's already been a very dangerous proposition."
Orion: Of course. We shall discuss that in the-- is it the morning?
Matt: "Very well. I'm going to go ahead and make sure the rest of my team is alive."
Liam: Jarett! Are you up for it?
Matt: "If the pay is good, yes."
Laura: Jarett's up for anything.
Matt: "You understand. Ugh, okay. Talk to you in the morning. I think a bit of rest is necessary." And he makes his way up the stairs to the rest of the keep. Desmond at this point is still in shock, and he starts absentmindedly eating the sandwich that you handed him.
Orion: It's good, right? I had one yesterday.
Laura: Well. Maybe it's best not to leave him down here.
Orion: No. You should stay in the guest room. Come.
Matt: "Is it safer there?"
Orion: Yes, it is.
Matt: "I told you they'd come for me. I told you they would."
Laura: But you know what! You're still alive.
Sam: You've had the worst couple of days.
Matt: Wipes the blood from the side of his face and looks at it.
Orion: Let's take you upstairs and get you all fitted... Who do we talk to that works for us that does the actual construction to the keep?
Laura: That is one of Uriel's staff. In which case, we cannot talk to them right now.
Matt: Yeah, the individual responsible for the construction of the keep was Lord Riskel Daxio, which is an elven gentleman on the Council that helped oversee the whole construction and helped you guys design it, so.
Liam: Is he still on the bed?
Matt: Still on the bed.
Liam: I sit down next to him and say, listen. You are a victim of circumstance, we understand that. We are, to a certain degree, as well. We're not leaving your side, and really there's no other choice. I mean, you're fucked like we are. So we will do our best to protect you, I promise you.
Matt: "Okay."
Travis: I volunteer to sleep down in the room.
Liam: Oh wow.
Orion: He shall stay in my quarters.
Travis: It's better down here, isn't it?
Liam: In a locked cell with Grog? I think is pretty safe.
Laura: I think it's probably better to bring him upstairs, because if it's locked, we can't get to him very quickly.
Orion: Don't worry, we can enchant his room, as well, to have an alert thing go on if anything happens in the room at night, and it would be safer. I shall be sleeping in my laboratory for the next several nights, as well.
Marisha: I mean, I can still go ahead and do the planar bindings to an elemental that maybe I should've done beforehand. It lasts 30 days.
Liam: I like all of these things, but I think Grog as a bunkmate is a good idea.
Matt: At this point, Desmond leans into you and quietly says in your ear, Vax, he goes, "Is where I'm sleeping going to be away from him?" He looks over towards Percy.
Travis: Yeah, totally away from him.
Marisha: It's fine. You'll have him in between you and him.
Matt: You don't hear that; it's whispered to Vax.
Liam: There is a lot of history for Percy wrapped up in this and he has done you wrong, no question. But the answer is yes. You will be separate from Percival. You will be protected. And you have my word.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Laura: And you have my axe!
Liam: I'm going to use some Luck. Using my Luck. Natural 20, with Luck.
Matt: Takes another bite of the sandwich and packs it away in a little piece of cloth he had in a pocket, puts it in there. And you know, you can still see as he brings his hand up, you can see the blood streak against where the fingers were on the lower half of that hand. Strokes the edge of his chin and goes, "Okay. I trust you. Please. Please don't let them kill me."
Liam: We may be fuck-ups--
Orion: Speak for yourself.
Liam: But we're not without ability. You have my word. I promise you.
Matt: "Okay. I'm very tired."
Laura: Desmond, dear. Let's go upstairs. Grog! That bed needs to go back up to the guest room.
Travis: Fucking hell. I start to take the fucking bed up the stairs.
Matt: Takes you roughly another 20 minutes or so to bring it out of there, fitting it through the door.
Orion: Erwen! Where is that old man?
Matt: As you call out, Erwen eventually comes down. "Hi. Yes, Tiberius. You called? It's quite early in the morning." He has his night cap on and he's rubbing at his eyes.
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: Right now, it's about probably 6 30 in the morning or so. It's just after sunrise; you guys haven't even slept yet.
Orion: Oh. Shit. Never mind, I'll talk to you once we've slept. Go back to sleep. I didn't realize what time it was! I thought it was 10:00 AM, which is totally different than 6:00 AM. I didn't know that.
Matt: "It's all right. All right. In the morning then, Master Tiberius." And he goes off to his bed to sleep.
Travis: We go to sleep?
Laura: Yeah, we need to sleep.
Sam: I gently fall asleep under Percy's workbench, where I've been hiding this whole time.
Matt: Okay, make a stealth check.
Taliesin: Not going to sleep down there.
Sam: Natural 20.
Matt: All right, so. As the rest of you go to sleep--
Taliesin: I'm going to go into my workshop.
Liam: On my way up, I fall in next to Keyleth. Ask, is your hand all right?
Marisha: It's fine.
Liam: Do you need anything?
Marisha: Nope.
Travis: Since he's sleeping in the room with me, I take a few of the caltrops that I have and I put them on the inside of the doorway before I close it.
Matt: Okay. So you guys are doing your setup there. Percy, you're in your workshop. Go ahead and roll a perception check, Percy.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: 17. Okay. You go about your work.
Taliesin: I'm fixing my gun.
Matt: Okay. The materials that it requires you to do so are expensive, you actually have to pay the cost of the gun, and go ahead and make another check.
Sam: The fuck is that sound?
Matt: So go ahead and make another tinkering check. And the cost of the Pepperbox should be at the bottom of your--
Taliesin: Is it the whole cost or half?
Matt: Should be half the cost. It should say under the repair rules for a misfire.
Taliesin: Half cost. Oh my god, that's awful. Okay, tinkering check. 12.
Matt: 12. Okay.
Taliesin: Technically, that would be a success.
Matt: Yeah. So you take the rest of the morning, unsleeping, the dark bags under your eyes. You manage to get the Pepperbox back in working order.
Taliesin: Oh, I was asleep. I wasn't with them, so I just woke up really early.
Matt: Right, right. But even so, even though you slept, it hasn't been very restful. It's been technically enough to rest, but your evening has been fraught with nightmares. Perpetually. But your Pepperbox is repaired, and does cost you half the cost of the weapon cost to repair.
Taliesin: 75 gold.
Orion: I sleep in my little nook in my laboratory.
Matt: Okay. You guys rest through the rest of the morning, waking up past noon, probably about 2:00 in the afternoon. You all gradually begin to come to consciousness. Make your way downstairs. As you come downstairs, you can already smell breakfast has been prepared. You can see Laina already has the meal set out for you, and as you guys approach, "Oh it's so nice of all of you to come down! It was very interesting. These very nice folks came by this morning and dropped off a whole bunch of food and fresh veggies and stuff. Makes for a great meal. It was very nice of them. Food is served." And shegives out the plates and gives you a smile.
Travis: I love you. (eating noises)
Liam: Is this a frittata?
Matt: "I believe that's what it's called in some circles. I'm trying a few new things!"
Travis: Can I make a beard check?
Orion: I'm going to take some food and feed it to Lockheed and roll for my animal handling for the day.
Travis: 66.
Matt: No effect, unfortunately.
Travis: Just a little tingle?
Matt: There is a slight tingle, but it's mostly a placebo. (laughter)
Matt: As you guys are having your meals and you're trying and you're feeding food, teaching this, everyone roll a perception check.
Liam: At home?
Orion: 16!
Liam: I rolled a one.
Marisha: 17.
Liam: This frittata is lovely.
Sam: Six.
Travis: Eight.
Laura: 16. But my passive is 21.
Matt: Right, understood. Good to know. Percy's down in his workshop. As you guys are in the middle of your meal, you hear, clearing the stillness and quiet of the low munching-up, (clears throat) and sitting at the table adjacent to you guys, completely unnoticed in his entry, is Seeker Asum, arms crossed.
Laura: Motherfucker, you are sneaky! I need to talk to you.
Travis: We are not cool right now.
Matt: "Well, obviously not. That's why I'm here to have a conversation with the rest of you. Please continue to eat. I don't mean to disturb you."
Orion: Oh, very well.
Laura: Help yourself to a frittata.
Matt: "I've already eaten, but I appreciate the offer."
Orion: Try this hakuna frittata. It's really good!
Travis: Hakuna matata?
Laura: Let him talk.
Matt: "What a wonderful meal. Well, things have certainly gotten sticky, haven't they? Well, first and foremost, I would like to thank you, Keyleth, for clearing my head. Lord Briarwood had locked me into some form of mental charm during my attempt to aid Vax--"
Marisha: I told you it worked! Sorry, I'm a little defensive right now. Continue.
Matt: "That's all right. Things are a bit mixed up. It's hard to explain; let's just say I have been clouded in my judgment for the past few days until you cleansed me. I'm sorry to uphold the charade back in the palace."
Liam: Apologies are mine, I think. I believe you had some sort of plan, and I thought I knew better, and for that I'm sorry.
Matt: "I cannot say that is untrue. But I accept your apology."
Laura: Can I roll for insight?
Matt: You may.
Liam: Roll high!
Laura: I know! That was a shit roll. Nine.
Matt: He's a hard person to gauge, anyway. You gathered over time that most of his work deals in a network of spies and the gathering of information across all of Tal'Dorei, so he is very well-trained to hide the essence of his true nature and the intent. Hard to read. But he seems pleasant as he's been, and given the circumstances. "Nevertheless, I accept your apology, and I apologize for having upheld the charade during the council meeting, but I had to keep up appearances so as not to cause any sort of stir at the time. I fear, based on my observations since, that our very own sovereign also fell to the same charm I did and has been clouded since the dinner the night before."
Laura: Shit! That makes sense.
Marisha: We were afraid of that.
Sam: He's fallen for that stuff before.
Matt: "He's been through quite a bit, and while he's a resolute and a very good man, I would say that he is predisposed to outer influence from those that are quite strong-willed."
Sam: And this is why you kept up our accusations against us in front of him?
Matt: "Under those conditions, the room filled with guards that were all intent against keeping you at bay. Should you have made any attempt to try and cleanse him as well during that time, I think you all would have wound up in prison. Or worse."
Marisha: So why didn't you want to show that you were also cleansed? What was the point of holding up the charade?
Matt: "Because when you're under this influence, to speak against the proposed ally of the charm is to draw a line. I wish to stay in his good graces because that would enable us a much better chance of getting you close enough to him to absolve him of this charm. If I was to reveal this instantaneously in the presence of the entire council, I fear that might have put me in the same court of disfavor as you and lost any future chance of expelling this influence."
Laura: Do you it's only Uriel, or do you think it's the rest of the council as well?
Matt: "Best I can gather, most of the council is not as well-- how do I put it? Not used to business with Vox Machina. Allura seems to be of clear mind, as she is very powerfully protected against such influences and did not have any immediate interaction with the Briarwoods during that dinner. I fear the intent was on the sovereign himself."
Sam: Wait, are you saying that the Briarwoods corrupted him?
Matt: "Same way they corrupted me."
Sam: During the dinner? While we were all sitting there?
Matt: "Apparently, it takes naught but a glance."
Laura: Oh shit! They could have gotten any of us.
Orion: Yes. They did. Me. It was rather inconvenient. I hate them. Sorry.
Matt: "I think we have something in common."
Sam: Aren't you deaf?
Liam: No, that was brief.
Orion: I mean, what?
Sam: Is that why you're talking so loud?
Orion: Yes. I was getting it back.
Matt: "There are a few options at our disposal. You could continue to work to clear your name, during his distraction southward, if you have some idea as to how we could get close enough to him to absolve him of this now, that would leave the risk of, should anything go poorly, being poked with many spear holes."
Laura: Is it possible to sneak into his room, and restore him without anybody knowing?
Matt: "If you're confident. That may be more of a mission for the quieter of your bunch, should they be a little more intelligent with their actions, going forward."
Orion: What about drawing him out to a luncheon or whatnot?
Matt: "I will say, based on recent circumstances, he is very careful and defensive."
Liam: I have fair chances of getting in, but no ability to cure him of any such thing.
Laura: What if Keyleth, who can do it, polymorphed into a fly or a very small creature, traveled on you, you snuck in, she popped out, did the thing. Money.
Sam: (laughs) Unless they're caught, in which case, you've got two of our members against the entire palace guard.
Laura: So then you go with them and Dimension Door out.
Sam: I didn't even want to face the little invisible thing downstairs!
Orion: Why don't we hold a special dinner?
Sam: He hates our fucking guts.
Travis: Why don't we let Seeker Asum finish?
Sam: Seeker Asum, in your opinion, is it safer to try and heal him or to try and clear our name through the traditional legal means?
Matt: "Honestly, I have no idea. I think this plan, if successful, is quite inspired. However, failure would probably end in the immediate incarceration and/or death of both individuals involved. Public execution does not befit the country-wide name of Vox Machina, if you were to fail. If you were to succeed, that would be the most direct route between two points."
Marisha: So are we in agreement that we have to clear Uriel's mind first?
Sam: No. No, the other option is to clear our names and not worry about clearing his mind.
Laura: Uriel, if he's got his mind controlled, it doesn't matter if we try to clear our names, he's going to find us guilty.
Sam: But during our trial, we will have a direct line of sight to him, we might be able to get through to him.
Liam: Does he still trust Allura?
Matt: "As far as I know, yes."
Travis: You know, if we kill the Briarwoods, is this even a point?
Sam: That's true. He doesn't trust Allura, she wasn't even allowed in the room to talk to us. There's definitely suspicion there, right?
Liam: He did. He did question her allegiances.
Matt: "If that's the case, then perhaps her current power is not as strong in the council when regarding you. But she is still a member of the council, should she not be immediately affiliated with you for her purposes. This is up to you. Whatever you choose to do, if it requires my aid, I will give it a day before I have to leave. My next intent is to head-- well, I wish to go past the eastern curtain set up by Whitestone into Wildemount. I have spent the better part of the past day since the cleansing seeking all records of the Briarwoods and their doings. There was a period of about eight years in which there is no public record of their goings-on. It appears that most records that deal with their involvement in Wildemount, and whatever homestead gave them their title, Lord and Lady Briarwood, has all been but erased. So I intend to go to the source, Wildemount itself, and research. This will take me some time, of course."
Orion: When do you plan on leaving?
Matt: "Sooner the better. I was thinking tomorrow."
Marisha: Is Percy here? Is Percy in the room?
Matt: Percy is not even here. Percy is down in the workshop.
Marisha: I go get Percy.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I was going to be at the door.
Marisha: Oh. I come around the corner, and I see Percy.
Matt: As you come around the corner, Percy is currently leaning up against the side of the wall, listening in to the conversation.
Marisha: Hey! I was looking for you. You want to come and actually join the conversation for once, instead of sitting outside the door and just listening to them? Because I really feel like this is going to be your time to input and maybe really help?
Taliesin: I don't feel like doing that. Oh. Lead on.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Seeker Asum, we have managed to capture and keep one of the coachmen. Down in our cell. Would he be safer in our hands, or within the castle walls?
Marisha: Percy and I walk in.
Travis: I'm fucking asking.
Matt: "Well, that depends. If you have strong defenses, and the enemy has no means of entering, then he will be safer here. The palace itself is a very well-protected area; however, there currently is an open invitation into the palace, and if the essence of our enemy is as I think it is, then they can enter whenever they like."
Travis: Never mind.
Liam: I think we're really choosing between two paths here. Either we stay in town and tinker and gamble, or we're runaways.
Sam: Runaways? No, we go to the Briarwoods--
Liam: That's what I'm talking about. The minute we leave, we're outlaws. They've told us not to go.
Orion: We can leave, we just cannot flee. We can travel as we see fit. We just need to let them know where we're going.
Liam: Yeah, but we can't tell them 'we're going to check out your associates'.
Travis: Yeah, we lie.
Marisha: Wait, what's the name of the town?
Sam: Whitestone?
Marisha: Not Whitestone. Oh, I thought he was saying he was going to go to their hometown.
Matt: He's going to Wildemount, the kingdom that they're originally from. The continent to the far east.
Marisha: He's not going to Whitestone. He's going to go to Wildemount, which is on another continent. If we go to another continent, it doesn't matter if we're fleeing or not. It's going to look like fleeing.
Travis: Why are you going to Wildemount, again?
Matt: "I'm trying to find as much information to incriminate them in case whatever you're attempting does not work."
Orion: Seeker, would you mind staying for a week or so before your venture? We need time to convince the council to let us leave without conflict and to procure particular items and things that we need. Very briefly. Would just take some time.
Matt: "I have already made arrangements for travel. I could try, but depends on what you need me here for."
Travis: What do we need him here for?
Orion: Ultimately, protection or a good ear.
Marisha: Do you genuinely think they're going to let us go with permission? We're not on their good side.
Laura: No, they're not. They're not going to let us go.
Liam: We're going to be outlaws. We have to clear ourselves by ending the charm on Uriel by finishing off Sylas.
Sam: Or by killing the Briarwoods, thus ending the charm.
Liam: Sylas Briarwood.
Matt: "So that would be a way to clear your name and clear his head."
Travis: Let's do that.
Sam: Percival--
Orion: What of eight days instead of two weeks? Oh, sorry.
Sam: Percival, what do you think we should do? Go seek revenge on your family and get some blood on our hands, Briarwood blood? Or do the sneaky thing and try to--
Laura: Please, we need your input.
Marisha: You know them better than anyone.
Taliesin: I really don't. I think we're here because I wasn't prepared.
Marisha: Can I do an insight check on him? See if he knows more than what he's saying?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: You can go ahead and roll a d20.
Marisha: Is that a nine?
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: Is there anything you're holding back?
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: He seems clear as day, telling the honest truth.
Liam: I don't think we're here in this city to become lords and ladies serving Uriel, as good a man he is. I think Percival's our ally, and this is a grievous wrong done to him, and we can kill two birds with one stone.
Taliesin: I think we are in the situation we're in because we now know how much we don't know. How much I don't know. I'm not prepared. If we face them now, I'm going to get you all killed.
Orion: I agree. We need proper preparation. Percy, I'm pretty sure you have a good background on vampires and what-have-you, as do I, as I've researched them in the last couple of days. There's other things that we should research, as well, and probably arm ourselves for that kind of conflict, if it comes to it. Quite frankly, I have a feeling if it's the whole town we're dealing with, we need to find out how many innocents there are to save, and if the number is low enough, we can fly in with an army ourselves, which would take some time. The Draconian Knights. I am an ambassador to Draconia, officially, after all the assistance I've sent, in giving them the Wheel of Mending, and proving my point.
Laura: You gave them the Wheel?
Orion: No, I showed it to them, proving that my quest was true, which they gave me full ambassadorship, which means that, if harm comes to a Stormwind, harm comes to all of Draconia. And a town full of vampires and liches--
Laura: I didn't know we had a whole army at our disposal. That's wonderful to hear.
Orion: If worse comes to worst.
Liam: Started on the bottom, now we're here.
Sam: Diplomatic immunity.
Orion: Even then, our relations must be strong with Emon. We need their allyship, as well. Draconia will not go into things alone. We need a union.
Marisha: I agree. While we're not serving Uriel, that's not our purpose, I also don't want to leave an enemy of the state. That's not good for me, for what I want.
Orion: I go up to Jarett. Eight days. What do you think of eight days?
Marisha: And what, go with Jarett? Not Jarett, Asum.
Sam: He's not even going where we would be going. We would be going to Whitestone, right? That's where the Briarwoods are.
Liam: But Keyleth, Uriel is the law, and the law is now corrupt.
Marisha: Then why don't we save his mind before we go?
Laura: Here's the thing. He's going to find out stuff about the Briarwoods. What's the fucking point of him going if we're just going to go attack the Briarwoods before we know what he knows? We need to let him go, find out his shit, take care of Uriel, wait until he gets back, go take out the Briarwoods--
Orion: As Vex is saying this, Tiberius is getting a half-chub.
Travis: A what?
Laura: A what?
Taliesin: Well, that's just weird.
Orion: You can't see it because it's inside.
Liam: Yes, but you said it out loud.
Matt: Anyway.
Orion: I'm just saying.
Sam: It's a strategy boner?
Liam: It's a strategy chub, all right.
Taliesin: I'm still weirded out.
Marisha: You've got to give context to those things, man.
Liam: It's an odd choice of words, but now 30 seconds later, I see what you mean
Orion: Sorry. Her brain. That's what I'm talking about.
Matt: Asum says, "My getting to Wildemount is not easy, nor is it safe. I cannot linger for long. Maybe a few days."
Taliesin: How soon will you return?
Matt: "That depends on if I even return. Every spy I've sent to seek information on the Briarwoods or to Whitestone has not come back."
Orion: (ripping noises) I'll give him two strips of Scroll of Telescription. If any harm falls upon you, write on this. I explain what it does.
Matt: Okay. How many of those do you have left, by the way?
Orion: I have 30 tickets left, so 28 now.
Liam: I have another idea. Uriel said that-- he was resistant, but he said that he would bring me in to have his people check me out. Check out my story. What if Keyleth and Scanlan rode in my pockets--
Sam: I'm not that small.
Laura: As roaches.
Liam: You're pretty small. Just as mice.
Laura: Or bugs. Roly-polies!
Liam: Magic user's choice. Can you cast magic when you're transformed?
Sam: No.
Laura: So they'd have to pop out. Can you shrink yourself and still do magic teeny-tiny?
Sam: Are you asking me?
Laura: Either of you.
Sam: No, but I can shit on things. Yes?
Orion: Can you give the Seeker an inspiration before he goes on an adventure?
Sam: It could last him 20 minutes, yes. Get him to the docks, maybe.
Laura: Seeker, what do you think? What was your goal of coming here?
Travis: Yeah, do you want us to come with you or what?
Matt: "My journey requires the utmost of silence, speed, stealth, and I mean no offense to your entourage, but I think I can do this alone, and should. However, this journey may take me two weeks, a month, many months-- I do not know. I'm doing this just in case whatever you're choosing to do fails. At least, if Vox Machina falls in this, I can come back with proof enough to try, and once the army has been gathered, perhaps we can rally all of Emon against Whitestone."
Travis: If you die, can you write a letter and sign your name saying that we were right, you were wrong, you were full of shit, the Briarwoods are assholes--
Orion: But a lot more eloquently than that.
Travis: Or not.
Matt: "I can try my best."
Laura: That would be lovely.
Marisha: I go up to his arm, and I Druidcraft a wooden armband. Make it look cool. And put that on him.
Sam: Onto Tiberius?
Marisha: No, onto Asum. Now I can scry through that. That way I can at least check in on you every once in a while. If you're okay with that?
Sam: I could've shat on him and had the same effect.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Laura: What about being invisible? Can you cast spells while you're invisible?
Orion: Only with Greater Invisibility, you can.
Marisha: 21.
Sam: We've always sought out the path of the most glory, and I think that that is the Briarwoods. Going into a giant, vampire-lich-ridden castle and killing two evil bastards amid their army of protectors is the coolest thing we could ever do.
Laura: It's super-duper cool. Here's the thing it's not going to be just two, I don't think. It's going to be an entire town of people that they've controlled.
Sam: You think we can get into Sovereign Uriel without anyone detecting magic on us? He's got clerics all round him--
Laura: Yeah, but Seeker Asum knows all the ins and outs of the palace.
Liam: He's leaving town tomorrow.
Laura: We'd have to do it stat, but he knows how to get in.
Marisha: He did say it was an inspired idea. His words.
Matt: "Regardless, you have to make a choice soon. I cannot dilly-dally. I'll take your band, yes." He takes the wooden band and puts it around his arm and says, "If this will put you at ease, I'll take it."
Marisha: Don't worry. I won't abuse it, I promise. Could you potentially help us with sneaking in the castle?
Matt: "I could get you in the door, but I could not escort you to that room. That would put myself in extreme danger and the entirety of our mission."
Laura: Could you distract people?
Matt: (laughs) "I can do that quite well, yes."
Sam: We can get there, but something tells me we're still going to be fighting a big fight in a palace. I'd rather fight that big fight in the Briarwoods'.
Liam: Scanlan and I are in agreement, and here's the problem. If things go south in Uriel's palace, we are then forced to fight against people who are good and true, or give up and go to jail, which sucks.
Sam: But in the Briarwoods', we can kill every motherfucker in that place.
Orion: There are a number of innocents that we need to figure out, still.
Marisha: What if we talk to Allura?
Sam: You killed an old lady!
Orion: She attacked us! And I will not back down from that decision.
Sam: She did have an old lady smell.
Travis: All right. Can we just vote on something, please? Since Percy's being oh-so-quiet about all this.
Marisha: Percy is being very quiet about this.
Travis: Are you sure you have nothing to say?
Laura: It's fucking your family. It's the people that attacked your family. Do you have no contribution to this?
Taliesin: I still feel I owe everybody an apology. I still feel terrible about dragging you all into this and putting you in danger.
Laura: We're choosing to do it.
Matt: "Vengeance." A voice whispers in your ear, Percy. No one hears this. "Vengeance."
Taliesin: If you're with me, we can be prepared for them this time. We know enough to prepare ourselves, we can have ourselves ready this time.
Orion: How many days do we have? I would like eight days to prepare.
Marisha: Can I see if he looks like shaken or fucked up at all?
Matt: I mean, he looks shaken and fucked up, yeah. He's obviously had a horrible few days.
Taliesin: I think a week to prepare is reasonable.
Laura: And then leave.
Taliesin: And then we leave. We leave quietly.
Marisha: Wait, we're leaving to Whitestone?
Travis: Yes.
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: I've been avoiding it for too long, and now I know too much.
Liam: The law of this land is compromised. Percival, I agree with you. I think this is the right choice.
Travis: All in favor, say aye.
All - orion: Aye.
Travis: All opposed, say nay. Nice.
Matt: "Then it is settled. I'll be on my way."
Laura: Wait! Before you go, could I talk to you?
Matt: "Certainly."
Laura: Were you going to say anything else? Because I'll talk to you in private.
Matt: "Three days and I'll be off on my side of the mission. Very well."
Laura: I'll follow you out.
Matt: Yes, and he walks out, walks with you.
Taliesin: Hold on, I'm going to hold you before you go. I just wanted to say, I'm so sorry and thank you. And thank you for doing this for me. I fear my temper before this weight is lifted from my heart. I do not wish to lose myself like that again, and I am so sorry for everything I've done.
Orion: Tiberius puts his hand on Percy's shoulder, and go, I'm sorry for the tragedy which is your family, and what these Briarwoods have befallen to them, and I will promise you, I will do my best to have you give that final blow from that barrel to the names assigned to them. But now it is a far dangerous situation, as you very well know.
Taliesin: I will do my best to maintain myself. I apologize.
Matt: And as you all scatter, Percy, as you walk out, the same voice creeps into your ear, "Yes." Now, as you step out with Seeker Asum, who now has a bit of haste to his step, arms crossed, looking around. "So you wish to speak with me?"
Laura: Yes, I do. You're a ranger.
Matt: "I am."
Laura: You're very sneaky.
Matt: "I can be."
Laura: I've only ever seen people like thieves, like my brother, do things like you've done. Can you teach me anything that you know to help me maybe be a little more stealthy, as well?
Matt: (sighs) "We'll go over what you know, and perhaps there are a few tricks that I can teach you in the three days I have. I can't guarantee that it'll be extremely changing, as that's a very short time to train over what I've learned over a lifetime, but I can certainly attempt."
Laura: I appreciate it.
Matt: "I require your concentration for those days, though, before I leave."
Laura: Utmost.
Matt: "All right. Meet me at the morrow, crack of dawn. I'll be at the front of your keep."
Laura: Okay.
Matt: "Very well." And he heads off, outside of the keep. The rest of you, what are you doing?
Orion: I go to my laboratory.
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: About 3 00, 4 00 in the afternoon now.
Travis: That temple of Sarenrae is in the city.
Matt: It's part of the keep, yeah. Oh, you mean the actual temple you went to? That is inside the city, yes. You can go into the city; you just can't get to the Cloudtop District.
Orion: Use the earring real quick. I'm going to write a quick letter. If anybody goes shopping, let me know.
Matt: Tiberius loves shopping.
Laura: He really, really does.
Matt: All right, we'll go ahead and take a quick break. We'll be back in five minutes. Keep it a stringent break, guys.
Liam: So errands will happen after that break? Because I have some errands that I want to do.
Matt: Yes. We'll try to keep the errands pretty concise so we can keep on schedule, yeah, so it's like, use this break to conjecture exactly what you want to do. All right, guys, we'll see you back here in five minutes. [break]
Matt: Welcome back. So to try and expedite this, over the next period of time you guys want to take to prepare, what are you going to do? Percy.
Taliesin: I'm going to finish up those things that we talked about earlier, spend some time making some ammunition, and I'm going to attempt to build what we were talking about earlier.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a tinkering check for your ammunition.
Marisha: What we were talking about? Can I help him with that? Can I assist him?
Matt: I would say the tinkering, the mechanisms involved, would be so far beyond your understanding as a druid. Even just metalwork in general. You can cheer him on, but would not be able to assist him with it.
Marisha: Go Percy, go! That's pretty good.
Taliesin: 24.
Matt: 24? Okay. You manage to produce 25 rounds for your Pepperbox and ten rounds for the Bad News.
Laura: Ooh, that's good.
Marisha: You still have inspiration from Scanlan?
Taliesin: No, I used that.
Matt: Used that to repair his Pepperbox. Roll for the secondary construction. Smoke bombs.
Taliesin: Okay. 11.
Matt: 11. You take a better part of two days attempting to get these to work, and most of your materials are ruined, unfortunately. You manage to come out with it with, and I want you to write this down, "smoke bomb, question mark." It may function. We will see upon use. But you have one at your disposal that is questionable. However, for the cost of the ammunition and the cost of the smoke bomb's construction, already that comes to about, I'd say 75 gold pieces, so mark that off. And you're attempting to make, you're attempting to make, based on what you told me, an Archimedes death ray.
Taliesin: They're not hard. I say that as, like, knowing my actual skill level, I could make one.
Matt: You could. To be functional with the materials that are at your disposal, it's going to be very large and hard to move.
Marisha: We were talking about making it collapsible.
Taliesin: I could make a collapsible one, where it's basically a one-third dodecahedron, like an observatory.
Matt: You spend the remainder of this week of preparation. Go ahead and roll your tinkering check. This is going to cost you in materials.
Orion: Wait, hold on, can I pause real quick? You don't need to do this if you want to make more ammo and other stuff. I can do this without you making this and spending the rest of the time, if you want to make other stuff. Option.
Matt: What do you want to do?
Taliesin: Story-wise it's more amusing.
Matt: Okay, go for it. All right, so. The actual materials for this--
Taliesin: It's copper.
Matt: I know, it's copper, but the actual dodecahedron that's involved, the mirrors, the lenses, the whole thing? In order to be of the scale and quality to even make it even remotely functional, all of it for the extremely high quality and some of it custom-made within the first couple days within this, with a rush order. I'd say the total cost is going to come to about 1,200 gold pieces.
Marisha: I'll pitch in for that. How much do you have?
Taliesin: At this point I have less than 100 gold.
Marisha: You have less than 100 gold? I'll pay for it in full.
Orion: What is the diameter of this?
Matt: The actual focal lens is about this big. The whole construct can be carried by two people.
Taliesin: But it will fold.
Orion: I was just going to say, what's the radius of the actual thing's lens?
Matt: Of the lens itself? This is the radius of the lens. I mean, even when it's collapsed, it can be carried by one person, but it's still a heavy mechanism.
Orion: So it's only one foot? Two feet? Three feet?
Matt: I'd say it's about two and a half feet in diameter.
Orion: Are you sure you want to do that?
Matt: He's already agreed. Go ahead and roll.
Marisha: Why? It's fine. This is what we were talking about.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22. Through the materials and the construct of it, you get partway through the final stages of it, and as you're tightening one of the sections, all of a sudden there's a (cracking) sound. Your whole body freezes as you glance over. the lens itself has a giant crack through it.
Taliesin: There shouldn't be a glass piece-- aw, man.
Matt: For the construct for this one, there was a focusing lens that is part of what the initial blast, otherwise there wouldn't be a point of actually projecting a ray from.
Orion: I thought they were all mirrors.
Matt: There's all different sorts of construction based on. This one's the one we're going on here, or if you can say the center of it is a gem, but regardless, the tinkering roll was not high enough to construct the device. Sorry.
Marisha: The whole thing's wasted? Can we try and repair the crack?
Matt: It's not something you can repair. The entire piece is constructed from a solid piece.
Taliesin: What, could we put it on the Mending Wheel?
Matt: You could attempt to.
Orion: (grunting) Let's see. Okay. (clicking noise)
Travis: I want to go to the store. I would like to get a shovel and a pickaxe.
Orion: You going to Gilmore's? We're going to Gilmore's, too. We could go together if you're doing that.
Travis: I don't give a fuck where we go. Just a shovel and a pickaxe.
Matt: Pickaxe... comes to four gold pieces for the two of those. You got them. Make a secondary tinkering check.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22. This time you go back and as you're tightening it, the actual metal housing of the device ends up bending in a way that both cracks the gem and causes the frame itself to be dented to the point where the beam will be imperfect. This is a very hard thing that you've come up with in your mind that has not been constructed before, and the level of difficulty to create this is very difficult. It does not cost you additional money, thanks to the Mending Wheel, but right now the entire device looks like to continue, it's going to take more time and money to construct it.
Taliesin: (sighs) I can always use this for spare parts for other things.
Laura: You're already 1,200 in? How much more would you have to put in?
Matt: I'd say about half the cost. An additional 600.
Marisha: And how many more days?
Matt: Two more days.
Marisha: How many more days do we have?
Matt: You agreed upon eight, so we'd be pushing about seven, then.
Taliesin: I've already built a smoke bomb and some rounds of bullets. All right, I'll put a little more time in this. Can I get some inspiration for this, too, if that would be possible?
Liam: Music, you mean?
Marisha: There's nothing I can do to help him?
Matt: Unfortunately-- what's your intellect?
Marisha: My intellect? I've got plus three.
Sam: (singing) Here comes the sun--
All: (singing) It's all right. (vocalizing)
Liam: (singing) Kill the vampire.
Marisha: Come on, come on.
Taliesin: Come on, come on.
Marisha: Percy roll. Come on.
Taliesin: 23?
Matt: Working on the device a third time, you get it right to the point where you think it could work and you go to set it up, and as you do, you find that the light focuses in a way that actually slowly melts the copper on the outside of the housing of the device, and it begins to melt onto itself, and you have to pull it out of the light. This design is beyond your grasp right now. You're inventing something that takes quite a lot of time to eventually perfect.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to put these away for a later time, and if I have one more day, I would like to work on--
Marisha: Maybe a version of it that is not collapsible that we can at least mount?
Taliesin: We've got it taken care of.
Matt: That's been your guys' week.
Taliesin: That's my week, okay.
Matt: Okay. You bought your pickaxe and your shovel. Cool. Vex, what are you doing?
Laura: I'm training.
Matt: You're training, okay.
Liam: All right. I want to be brief. I have four things I want to do, but I'll be very brief. I promise. Okay, so first thing I want to do is I think at some point, I heard Tiberius talking about wooden stakes and vampires. So I want to go buy about ten wooden stakes.
Orion: I give him extra. Get me 20.
Liam: I'm going shopping.
Laura: Yes, get me some holy arrows.
Liam: Can I get a loaner on that? I've got about 230 gold.
Travis: I thought you said you were going to be brief. (laughs)
Liam: On my own.
Marisha: I thought we got a bit of an allowance.
Liam: It's a week, so I get some gold from these people and I go and I don't even know what they said. I'm getting ten wooden stakes for myself.
Matt: 20, technically, because Tiberius requested ten. Those will cost you a total of two gold.
Liam: That's what I thought. And what did you want?
Laura: I wanted some holy arrows.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Or holy water. Try to get some holy water. Holy oil.
Liam: I'll get to that. Investigation, you say? That is a 13.
Matt: 13. Asking around the town  holy arrows, that is an enchantment. They're pricey and they don't appear to be anywhere in the major shops, even shops like Gilmore's, that they specialize in. It's usually a special order-type thing. Holy water flasks can be purchased at 20 gold apiece.
Liam: I'll get to that. All right, so we got wood. That was two gold, you said. All right, minus two. The next thing I want to do is go to the temple of Sarenrae and get my sister's holy oil for her. How much is that?
Matt: Holy oil? As opposed to the holy water?
Liam: I'll take both, if you've got it.
Matt: Well, holy oil is a more expensive version. Holy water is a one-use. Holy oil can be applied to a weapon.
Liam: Holy oil.
Orion: How much do the stakes weigh? Like each stake?
Matt: A cluster of ten, if that's what you wanted, would weigh about five pounds. But they're relatively light.
Orion: Tell him that he bought me 20 more.
Sam: Tell him that he bought you?
Liam: 40 stakes, four gold. Totally happened. Then I went to the temple of Sarenrae and I got two vials of holy oil. One for my sister, one for me.
Matt: Those are 100 gold apiece.
Liam: Okay. Got it. I can't. Oh, you gave me gold. I'll get four vials of that.
Laura: Yeah, I gave him gold to do it.
Liam: We'll work that out, I promise. I ask if the cleric who helped bring Pike back to life is here.
Matt: Yeah, Tristan is here.
Liam: Jesus, how do you do that?
Matt: Because I have to.
Liam: When I find him I say, you remember my friend Pike? You remember me?
Matt: "Yes, I inspected you. Is that healing well, by the way?" He inspects the wounds on the side of your neck.
Liam: It is. I'm grateful. I need a keepsake of your deity. [no audio]
Matt: And he steps away, goes back, disappears for a minute, comes back and he's holding in a chain around his neck-- It's seen some years of use, but still clean and very well kept, an identical holy symbol of Sarenrae as the one that Pike keeps around her neck. He hands it over and puts it over your head. "May she keep you safe and bring your soul to redemption."
Liam: It reminds me of my friend.
Matt: "As it should." Pats you on the cheek. "As it should."
Liam: All right, so chore number two down. I would like to go to Uriel's temple and ask the guards if anyone has seen my belt, Simon.
Matt: You are stopped at the edge of the Cloudtop District. The guards see you as you approach and block the doorway and say, "We're sorry, but Vox Machina has been given no passage into the Cloudtop District at this time."
Liam: I understand. I don't mean to go in. I understand that we caused a lot of trouble, and I am very sorry, and I don't mean to be any further trouble. There is a belt that I left inside.
Matt: "That's certainly unfortunate, isn't it?"
Liam: Have you seen a snake called Simon? Or any snake?
Matt: Both the guards look at each other and laugh for a second. "Piss off."
Liam: Okay. Chore number four. (laughter)
Liam: I go back. I give everybody their things. I would like to spend the rest of the week, because I am ready, hanging out across the road from the butcher's house that Kynan ran from, and if there are any youths his age who go there to shop, I would like to ask as they leave if they have any idea where he's gone.
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Liam: Perception check. Oh, that's a seven. Thought it was a one. (laughs) That is a 17.
Matt: 17. Okay. Keeping an eye out, you do eventually come across a boy that looks about his age. Late teens, maybe early twenties. Comes by and gathers a little bit of meat and rushes off and you stop him.
Liam: Excuse me, I'm sorry to take you away from your day. I'm sorry, what is your name?
Matt: "Jameson."
Liam: Jameson.
Matt: "Yeah, can I help you? I've really got to get home with this."
Liam: I understand, I'll just take a second of your time. I owe a boy who lives here named Kynan, I owe him a few silver and I want to see that he gets it. Is he in town?
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: I'll use the meteorite. That's a 15.
Matt: 15, gives you a look over and goes, "I'm certain you've given him silver, but Kynan's been gone for the better part of a week."
Liam: Where would he have gone?
Matt: "I don't know. He just told us all he was off to find his destiny or some sort of bullshit like that. He's always had his head in the clouds, that one."
Liam: I agree. He ever talked about where he was going, how he meant to go about doing it?
Matt: "No, kept to himself mostly. Sorry, I wish I could be more of a service. If I see him, where should I send him?" (clattering)
Liam: I don't know who that guy is. If you see him, tell him that V. is looking for him at Greyskull Keep.
Matt: "Well, I'll pass that along."
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: "Good day," and he hurries off to continue with his errand.
Liam: Are you all right, old man?
Travis: (old-man voice) I'm fine. It's my knee. (laughter)
Matt: Is that your last errand?
Liam: That's it.
Matt: Scanlan.
Sam: I go to Gilmore's. Are we near Gilmore's?
Matt: Yeah, Gilmore's in the city. He's not in the Cloudtop, so you have access to him still.
Sam: I want to know if such a thing exists, and if so, how much. A potion or a scroll that could invoke either Hallow or Spirit Guardians.
Taliesin: Say what?
Sam: Spirit Guardians is four. Hallow is five.
Matt: Here we go. Okay. Asking around, there are no potions for it, but there is a Scroll of Hallow available, and I will say that comes to roughly 6,000 gold pieces for the Scroll of Hallow.
Marisha: It's how much?
Matt: 6,000 for the Hallow Scroll. And for the Spirit Guardian, you said it was? 4th-level?
Sam: 4th-level.
Matt: That one is 2,000 gold.
Laura: What does that do?
Sam: Spirit Guardians would make some beings around us.
Matt: Spirit Guardians is level three, actually, not level four. That makes it a lot cheaper. That is 600 gold.
Sam: It scares evil things away. It's like a Pike-y thing.
Laura: Do it.
Sam: Can I cast that if I have a scroll?
Matt: If you have a scroll you can, yeah. It has a chance of failing.
Marisha: Yeah, you have to have magic.
Sam: How much did you say?
Matt: 600 gold pieces.
Sam: I'll buy one of those.
Matt: There's only one available. So you mark that down.
Sam: Okay. Yes, I will. I would also like to find a smithy of some sort and make me a little metal choker of chainmail.
Matt: Okay, remembering that you have spoken to Karin before, which is the renowned custom blacksmith in Emon, you speak with her. A chainmail half coif around the neck there is relatively inexpensive. It's a partial piece of armor. She looks at some scrap chainmail on the side and is like: "I'd be more than happy to use that for it. It shouldn't me take more than an hour, two maybe at most."
Laura: Get one for everyone.
Travis: I think they can bite besides the neck, right?
Laura: Yeah, technically, but still!
Sam: (laughs) Sure, I'll get eight of them, or seven of them.
Matt: Okay. (laughs) All right.
Sam: How much are they?
Matt: Seven of those. I'd say for the whole seven it'd put you at 100 gold, because it's custom orders. Seven of those.
Liam: What are they?
Sam: Chainmail chokers
Marisha: Chainmail dickies.
Travis: Oh wait, do you have one more?
Sam: And a small one for my dick. (laughter)
Matt: All righty.
Sam: A tiny one.
Matt: She awkwardly judges and turns that request down. She's uncomfortable with that.
Sam: Then I bow and leave.
Matt: Okay. So you got that. Yes. Just a second there, Tiberius.
Liam: I go to Gilmore's Glorious Goods and ask at the front door if Gilmore is there.
Matt: Gilmore, unfortunately, is in Westruun currently. Still overseeing the construction of his expansion there.
Liam: Understood. Who's the most knowledgeable person next to Gilmore in this store right now?
Matt: That would be... I can't find my updated NPC sheet. Do you remember what her name was?
Marisha: Sherri.
Matt: Sherri, thank you. I was like, Shelby? No. Sherri. Sherri is there greeting you. "That would probably be me."
Liam: Oh, hi. You remember me. I have a very important question. I won't take up much of your time. I pull out a small metal skull cap. Dented in a few places, rusted a bit, from the Underdark. What can you tell me about this?
Matt: She takes it. "If you're requesting identification of a magical item, that is a service we charge."
Liam: Sis, can I borrow some money?
Laura: How much do you need?
Liam: How much would that require?
Matt: "125 gold pieces per enchantment identified."
Liam: Done.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: Talk her down.
Matt: She takes it. She steps inside, sets it on the counter. She starts going through her books and starts looking at it and holding it for a second and doing a full inspection of it. "Based on the enchantment on this device, it's very crude in construction and the enchantment is in an arcane offshoot of language I'm not very familiar with, but it appears it is a guard from some sort of a mental influence. If worn, it would give you a stronger resistance against things that would attempt to peer into your mind."
Liam: Are we talking magic?
Matt: "Yes." So essentially what it would do is it would give you advantage on wisdom saving throws against magic spells.
Liam: Against?
Matt: It would give you advantage on wisdom saving throws against magical effects.
Liam: That's fucking brilliant. I hand her the gold and say, Scanlan sends his regards.
Matt: She noticeably blushes and goes, "Well, send mine back if you wouldn't mind. I've got work to do." And she rushes off.
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: All right. Now, Tiberius.
Sam: 16 errands.
Orion: I only have eight. Just kidding, no. The real quick one is going to the Temple of Sarenrae to pick up a canteen.
Matt: Okay. Did you pay for it already? You paid up front. Okay. So you get the canteen, the explanation is: the enchantment of the actual water creation itself is separate than the holy enchantment that has been attached to it. The holy enchantment is not very powerful because it is an enchanted item. How it functions is the first burst per day that you use of the water does an additional 1d6 radiant damage. That's it. But any additional after that is just water. Basically, whatever water is immediately contained within it at the start of the day is considered blessed. Once that's expelled, all the rest that it creates-- because it's pulling it out of the elemental plane of water; that's how it's continuously projecting it. The rest of it runs straight through, so it doesn't have a chance to even absorb the blessing.
Orion: Gotcha. Okay, cool. Second thing. I drop off my Swallow, or I'll call it the surge blade, and to have that enchanted on both ends.
Matt: With?
Orion: One side fire, the other side water. So however many mages I have to hire for that to happen in ten days, I think we talked about it being eight days or something like that? Or was that only one side?
Matt: (laughs) So what enchantment do you want? Do you want to just do an additional-- What do you want it to be?
Orion: I just want it to be a magical weapon.
Matt: Just a magical weapon? Okay, just a general plus-one magical weapon. Okay. That would take about-- let me double-check the rarity here.
Sam: In the meantime, check out those Critical Role keychains available on Geek and Sundry. (laughter)
Matt: That would run you approximately 700 gold to create it as a plus-one magical item. Would take one mage a week to do it.
Orion: Okay. So I'll do that.
Matt: Okay, so for the week it takes, you pay 700 gold pieces. Your quarterstaff with a couple of daggers tied to the end is now considered a plus-one magical weapon. (laughter)
Orion: I stop at Gilmore's and I drop off my Ring of Protection. And pay whatever that is to add a plus-one to make it instead of a minor, an actual Ring of Protection.
Matt: Unfortunately, the thing is, an enchantment cannot be progressively enhanced. You would have to disenchant and then re-enchant the entire thing.
Orion: I thought Gilmore said they could do that there, before. That's why I was going to cough up the green for the Gil, as it were.
Matt: No. They can enchant the item with it, but it would be the cost of basically re-enchanting the item.
Orion: How much would that be?
Matt: That would cost approximately 25,000 gold pieces.
Sam: Oh jeez.
Matt: And it would take the better part of a year. A plus-two Ring of Protection is a very powerful item.
Sam: It's worth it. It's a good investment.
Matt: That you even acquired one earlier was great luck.
Orion: How about buffing the ring of source spelling--
Matt: The Ring of Spell Storing?
Sam: The thing that I had that I still want. That one.
Matt: The Ring of Spell Storing? That's its enchantment. There is no more powerful version of the Ring of Spell Storing. If you wanted to attempt to do that yourself on your own time, you could. That will cost you upward 60,000 gold pieces and about a year.
Orion: No, not right now.
Laura: How about we stick to the level we're at?
Orion: I didn't know all that stuff was going to be that way. That's why I asked.
Liam: How do you learn if you don't ask?
Matt: It's good to ask these things.
Orion: (laughs) So okay. While the days are going, I want to roll for animal handling to teach Lockheed stuff, which is every morning, whatever.
Matt: I'll say throughout the week, 'cause you've taught Lockheed a lot of things back to back. You can't cram everything in there in the three to four days and like: "You learn everything!" Because you've already taught Lockheed one thing this week. Roll for a second thing you want to teach Lockheed.
Orion: Like, with advantage? I'm just having fun.
Matt: Sure, I'll give you advantage on that.
Orion: That's fine, that's fine. I'll take that. That's 17.
Matt: Roll advantage. Go for it.
Orion: 17.
Travis: For the sake of brevity, can I roll one beard check?
Matt: Yeah. You can roll several beard checks.
Travis: 43.
Matt: 43. It starts filling in.
Travis: 81.
Matt: Nope.
Travis: 86.
Liam: Aw, come on Grog.
Travis: 16.
Matt: 16.
Travis: 68, 19. 58.
Matt: Okay. So by the time the week comes to an end, the other side of your beard has finally filled in and you are back to a full beard, Grog.
Laura: Good job, Grog.
Matt: So yeah, that succeeds. It takes you a few days to get it though, but what do you want to teach Lockheed?
Orion: I want to teach him to be quiet.
Matt: A very important thing to teach a creature. So Lockheed has learned to be quiet. Good. Anything else?
Orion: Yes. I got that, that. Throughout the days, I'm going to go all the shops and see how many glass mirrors-- I'm looking for mirrors, just all kinds of mirrors, every size.
Matt: There are plenty of mirrors out there. There are general stores that sell them all over.
Orion: I'm looking for five-by-five to ten-by-ten size mirrors.
Sam: Feet?!
Orion: Yeah. No, inches.
Matt: Okay. I misunderstood. Yeah. You could've had them custom made if they weren't out there, but they have mirrors of that size available.
Orion: I need about 1,500 of them. Can I get 1,500? How many can I get?
Matt: There aren't that many mirrors in the city.
Orion: Okay. All of them.
Sam: You know, if you hold two next to each other there looks like there's a million of them.
Orion: You know what, that's true.
Matt: They're five gold apiece, and of what is currently available for purchase, you may be able to acquire about 35 mirrors, and you'll clean out most of the places that will stop selling them to you.
Liam: That's cutting-edge technology in this day and age.
Orion: How many, if I laid them out on a flat surface, how many-- (laughs) How many feet would that cover?
Liam: Well, two per foot, Tibs. They're five inches apiece, right? You can fit two in a foot. So you just bought 35, so that's about--
Laura: 17 feet! 17 whole feet of mirrors!
Sam: If you're doing a square, it's three feet by three feet.
Matt: Yeah, four by four. So there you go. Four by four.
Orion: I'll take all that. How much is that?
Matt: Okay. 35 times five. So we're looking at 175 gold.
Orion: Done. And then, for timeline stuff, I'm going to do as much as I can to start enchanting my bolts, and I'm going to go work with Keyleth on stuff.
Matt: Keyleth's been working with Percy this whole time.
Marisha: The whole time?
Matt: It's taken the entire week for him, you said you were assisting him.
Marisha: No, you said I couldn't assist him. I had no intelligence to assist him.
Matt: I thought you said you were still going to help cheer him on. Okay, then no worries. Then yeah, you're available.
Orion: I'm going to try to make as many sleep bolts as I can. But the other thing with Keyleth is I would like to enchant a bolt that is a smoke screen, but it consists of holy water. So I use a pour of the day from the canteen and use that as a mist instead of a smoke.
Matt: The enchantment of an arrow to do that is the use of a Fog spell. There is no way to infuse a Fog spell with holy water.
Marisha: That's what I was saying. I don't know if you can do holy water. I can do a Fog spell.
Orion: Can we infuse a Fog spell with a Sleep spell?
Matt: No.
Orion: Can we try super hard?
Matt: Sure. Make a roll.
Orion: God damn it. Okay.
Marisha: Like, the best I could possibly do is maybe take one of these holy water things.
Orion: What am I rolling?
Matt: Plus arcana.
Travis: Do you think it matters? No.
Orion: 24.
Matt: 24. Okay. After spending approximately 500 gold in materials, the enchantment fails, both spells fizzled. You lost 500 gold. But now you know. Probably can't combine two spells into a single enchantment.
Liam: And knowing is half the battle.
Orion: Don't worry, it came out of my pocket.
Sam: I've got fog.
Orion: Okay.
Travis: How about you get nothing else, and we move on?
Orion: Last thing.
Travis: No last thing.
Orion: I stop at Allura's.
Matt: You go towards the Cloudtop District, and the guards stop you again.
Orion: I remember that as I walk up, and I go back to Greyskull Keep.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Oh wait, I don't do that.
Orion: Oh wait, I don't do that.
Marisha: #OrionAcaba.
Orion: I realize what I'm doing, and I stop.
Liam: Also. This will just take ten seconds, at some point in the week, when Keyleth is taking a walk, I go into her garden, and I clip one flower, and I take it.
Matt: How many sleep bolts?
Liam: Go sleep in your money.
Orion: You said I could do that.
Taliesin: You're busy this week.
Sam: Can he get back to the keep and we've all left four days ago? (laughter)
Orion: Carrying groceries in, look, guys  hoagie stuff!
Sam: Dear Tiberius. We left.
Laura: We got really bored and we left.
Matt: Okay, I will say for each arrow, it will cost you 600 gold and will take you six days to do, per arrow.
Laura: Six days per arrow?
Matt: Yes. It's one day per 100 gold of an enchantment. Which is even me making it higher than the book says. It should take you four times that.
Orion: Cool. Can it cost more if I hire a mage?
Laura: (screams)
Matt: You want to hire a mage?
Marisha: I need to do shit, too. I can't be everyone's bitch.
Matt: So three and a half days and it cost you 1,200 gold for a single sleep bolt.
Orion: Sweet. And I do two of those. And I'm broke.
Liam: He's spent people, he's spent.
Matt: Okay, so you've done all of your shopping in one day and spent the rest of the week doing those. All right, so there we go. You're broke and you have two sleep bolts on your person. Keyleth.
Marisha: I got to Gilmore's and I buy an alchemy set.
Matt: Okay. That comes to--
Sam: 95,000 gold
Orion: It's going to be a lot more than you think, apparently.
Matt: Alchemist supplies? 50 gold.
Orion: Oh, come on!
Matt: Not enchanted, yo. "It's magic, give me all the magic!"
Taliesin: This is made of things.
Marisha: This is made of things. And then I go home and I make a few Cure Wounds potions. Try it out, since I've learned and I've been studying and I've been doing my research. So maybe a few level two, level three Cure Wounds potions?
Matt: A level two healing potion, a greater healing potion. The materials involved in creating that will come to, I'd say about 400 apiece, and you'd have time to create two. It's about four days per potion.
Sam: (whispered) How much do they cost?
Matt: To purchase? They cost about 500 to 600. She's getting a discount because she's making it herself.
Marisha: Wait, they cost 500 to 600 and they cost 400 for me to make them?
Matt: Yes. It's your first time doing it. They'll probably get cheaper over time as you get better at it.
Marisha: Oh, okay. Cheaper over time as I get better at it? That's funsies. Well, let me make-- What is that? A greater healing potion?
Matt: It's a greater healing. So for each one you make, roll a d20 and add five.
Marisha: Let me make one for right now.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: That's an 18. That's pretty good.
Matt: Then yeah, you successfully create the potion. No issue.
Marisha: Awesome. I had a Percy-roll! And he hates me for it. How long will it take me to make a Daylight scroll?
Matt: A Daylight scroll? What level spell is that?
Marisha: Third.
Matt: Third? That'll cost you about, I'd say, 600 gold pieces. It'll take you six days. You don't have time. You could pay more to have somebody else help you make one if you wanted to.
Marisha: Then I make two greater healing potions. Actually, no, I want to experiment. I want to take one of those holy water bottles. And I want to see if I can enchant it with my Fog spell. To make it a holy water fog grenade. When you throw it, it'll go (shatters) with my fog spell.
Matt: You know that upon throwing the holy water, it would shatter. It would create a fog, but the holy water itself would just affect the creature you threw it at. You'd be able to blend the two enchantments; they don't necessarily mix. The fog itself is not created from the water, it's created from the glass that you're enchanting.
Laura: Plus, we didn't get any holy water, we only got holy oil to put on our weapons.
Matt: You have a couple of flasks of holy water.
Marisha: What if I enchant it with Daylight? Oh wait, it still won't--
Matt: It's a whole different thing. Daylight, that's more of a scroll thing.
Marisha: I'm going to do it, anyway. I'm going to do the fog thing, because I said it. I'm going to commit.
Matt: Okay. That will cost you-- I'll put it at 500 gold pieces. And that'll take you five days.
Orion: For a fog scroll?
Marisha: No, for the fog holy water thing. It's a holy smoke grenade.
Liam: Someday, we will get out of the character creation menu, but not this day.
Taliesin: I don't like the nose yet. It's too low.
Marisha: Sure. That'll be my two things I do.
Matt: Okay, roll another d20. Plus five.
Marisha: Natural 20.
Matt: All right. You feel the fog enchantment take shape in the glass vial. It seems relatively unstable. You gather that this glass was not meant to contain an enchantment from the get-go. You somehow manage to make it function, but you have to be very careful with that vial.
Orion: Here, put it in here.
Matt: Who knows what'll happen if it actually is thrown?
Laura: Don't put it in a Bag of Holding.
Liam: Give it to Scanlan.
Marisha: Who would like a very unstable item?
Laura: Percy's used to unstable things.
Marisha: I give it to Scanlan.
Taliesin: Was that a jab at my-- No, never mind.
Matt: It's a fog-enchanted vial of holy water. You can write it down that way if you'd like.
Sam: I'll just put it on my back. I'll just hang it.
Marisha: Please be careful. Wait, I tell him. Scanlan, this is very delicate. Please be very gentle with this.
Sam: I will put it where I put all gentle things.
Marisha: That I trust. I trust that more. Fine. Good.
Orion: You do not make the wisest decisions here your Majesty, I must say.
Matt: What was once holy-- (laughter)
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Sam: I give everyone the chainmail.
Matt: Okay. You give all the chainmail.
Laura: Oh. Look at this, so fancy.
Sam: I take that fancy box I bought a couple times ago, and I take the blue crystal that we found in our very first adventure and I put it in and I seal it tight. Shit. I had one more thing I wanted to do. Oh yes, I drink my Shit-Scrying Potion, shit in a jar and leave it in the kitchen. And tell the help, don't touch it.
Matt: Okay. (laughs) It takes much convincing, but nevertheless they acquiesce to your request, being the boss. All right. Anything else?
Taliesin: Yeah. Just going to let the guards know to watch our guest while we're away. Keep him under protection.
Travis: Are we leaving him here?
Taliesin: I think so.
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: The what?
Orion: The guy who built stuff, regardless, did I do that or is that just in my head?
Matt: Lord Daxio, you mean? What about him?
Orion: So I didn't do that yet.
Travis: Yeah, you going to do something on his room, Keyleth?
Laura: I go find Jarett, and I give him 200 gold. And I say, do not let-- Desmond? Leave your side. Watch him, watch for invisible anything. Protect him with everything you can.
Matt: "I will do this with my life. Do not worry."
Sam: Have we given them a raise?
Laura: I just gave him 200 fucking gold.
Travis: Double the guard on him.
Laura: And yeah, everybody-- fuck. I give a hundred--
Sam: Five of them make 100 a month, two of them make 50 a month.
Laura: I give another 200 to him and tell him to pass it out to the rest of the guard. We'll be back soon!
Matt: "Very generous, and I think they'll be very happy to find this. Thank you very much."
Laura: And add another guard to the watch.
Travis: Two to Desmond. At all times.
Matt: "Very well. I will do this. Thank you."
Laura: Thank you.
Orion: I going to tell Erwen to go and ask for court for the lord that can construct and tell him that we would like to make some changes and have the cells converted into barracks for our soldiers.
Sam: That won't do anything.
Orion: That's what I do. That's what Tiberius does.
Matt: Okay. Erwen goes, "All right, sir." And he wanders off.
Orion: Getting a good reputation does not mean holding prison cells.
Matt: About an hour later Erwen returns and says, "I'm sorry. They would not allow me into the central district. I do not have the proper papers to pass within. I mentioned that I worked for you, and they told me I was not to enter."
Orion: Oh, maybe you should have said a different name.
Sam: They would have known when they got to our keep.
Orion: That's true. (laughs)
Laura: Shall we head out?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Did I learn anything from Seeker Asum?
Matt: Go ahead and roll a d20, adding your wisdom modifier.
Laura: Ah jeez, really?
Liam: Come on, Laura.
Laura: What if I roll like shit?
Liam: Then it'll be hilarious. Roll that die. Come on. Roll high and it will be amazing.
Matt: Make it with advantage, because Asum is a very good teacher.
Laura: He is. He's so good.
Sam: He's awesome.
Laura: (fake crying) No, that was terrible.
Marisha: Advantage!
Liam: You are playing DND right now! All right.
Laura: Plus my wisdom. 17.
Matt: 17, okay.
Liam: Is she an emperor now?
Matt: (laughs) Is that how this works? All right, so talking with Asum. He works with you for a bit and teaches you the ranger ability Skirmisher's Stealth.
Sam: Skirmisher's Stealth?
Matt: So if you start one of your turns hidden from a creature, you can then, as a bonus action at the end of your turn, make another stealth check to remain hidden from them. You essentially can dive between areas and still be hidden.
Laura: While I'm attacking?
Liam: That's all ranger stuff?
Laura: Cool.
Liam: (air horn noises)
Sam: (air horn noises)
Matt: So yeah. We'll go over the details of it after the game. Essentially, you learn a new ranger ability from Seeker Asum.
Marisha: Dope.
Liam: Wow. I bought some sticks.
Matt: All right.
Orion: At the end of the first day, before all of that stuff happens. Sorry, guys, this is necessary.
Travis: Is it?
Liam: Everybody shut up and let Grog go on a one man, solo kill spree.
Travis: It's bound to happen. He's going to secede.
Matt: Tiberius, what do you want to do?
Orion: I'm in my lab the first night and I write a Scroll of Telescription to my father. And I go, dear father, and I tell him about the circumstances with the vampires.
Laura: Dear diary. Sorry.
Orion: At the end of it I go  I invoke the ambassador's right of war time as of now, and moreover as your son when I provide concrete evidence, you will know. But in the meantime, I would have you gather 50 ground troops of the Draconian knights and 50 winged soldiers of the wyvern fleet. Have them at the ready for my signal. I know it will take you a few days of travel to get here, but this is a town of vampires and possibly liches, which you know need to be destroyed no matter what. Your son, with love, Tiberius.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Everyone is aware that Tiberius is the giant eagles in Lord of the Rings. Tiberius can invoke ultimate destruction at the call of whatever he wants.
Orion: I don't know what's going on over there.
Matt: All right. As the week comes to a close, eventually a note appears before you, Tiberius, within your magical room. (fluttering) It reads: "Tiberius, child. I understand your request. However, you are fresh to these political matters and as the young one prone to jump at the sight of a shadow, I would need some very heavy proof to invoke wartime. Which, if I might add, is not your jurisdiction, but my own. Should you wish to bring this to my attention, you are welcome to, but you have but one chance before I set aside this intrusion to my work time as mere poppycock." (laughter)
Matt: "Tiberius, I trust that in time you will prove yourself to this family and to this country, but for the time being, business matters of this larger scale are best left to those with experience. With love, Kruvanis Stormwind."
Liam: (whispers) Send him three more letters.
Orion: Damn it. Have to provide proof to my fucking father. Fine. He didn't say no, which is what he always says. Which is a lot better than what he always says.
Sam: I walk into Tiberius' room while he's having this conversation with himself. And I say, what are you doing in here?
Orion: I'm talking to myself, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, okay. All right. I'm going to go get some garlic from the kitchen, and then let's go!
Laura: I write a note. Address it to Uriel, hand it to our main butler. Who I know his name.
Matt: Erwen.
Laura: Erwen. It basically says  Uriel, FYI, we didn't totally flee. We's looking for evidence. No, we didn't flee. We'll be back, how about that? We'll be back.
Matt: All right. The note is left with Erwen.
Laura: And I tell him, only give this to anybody if they come looking for us and they're angry.
Matt: "Yes, of course. Of course."
Marisha: Grog? Do you think I should do the whole elemental guardian thing?
Travis: Why not?
Marisha: All right.
Orion: How are you doing, Grog?
Travis: I'm fucking bored. (laughter)
Travis: I've been sitting here for 30 fucking minutes. I'm bored! Cast an elemental and make it smash everything around the keep.
Marisha: Give me that ruby. (ting) I catch it. Water elemental seems appropriate based on our knowledge, yeah? Water elemental. And Planar Binding. And I talk to him in my elemental speech, which I can do.
Taliesin: And you say? (gargles water during Marisha's speech)
Marisha: And I say, look, we're going to be gone for 30 days. We have a visitor here. Make sure nothing or no one brings him any harm. (laughter)
Matt: I don't have a drink.
Orion: That make you thirsty?
Taliesin: You know, you can speak English, you don't have to--
Matt: Yeah. The elemental gives you an acknowledgment and speaks back in its own tongue the equivalent of, for my time here, I serve.
Marisha: Wait, what? I'm sorry.
Matt: "For my time here, I serve" is essentially the essence of what you get from him
Marisha: For my time here, I serve?
Matt: For my time here, I serve. All right.
Sam: Onward.
Liam: I love doing this show. (laughter)
Sam: Do we know where we're going?
Taliesin: Yeah, I know where we're going.
Liam: Percival de Rolo knows where we're going to go.
Taliesin: We head to Turst Fields.
Marisha: Are we riding there by horseback? Is that what we're doing?
Sam: Do we know where we're going?
Matt: Well, Percy said the Turst Fields. The Turst Fields you do know. Some of you may have passed by them. They are to the east, northeast area of Westruun, on the eastern side of the continent. It's about four and a half days' travel horseback.
Travis: What if we purchased a carriage?
Orion: What if we went on airship instead? We have one at our disposal, do we not?
Marisha: Well, we had one at our disposal when we were friends of the city.
Laura: I think it's in the Cloudtop District, actually.
Liam: I think we need to go on the down-low.
Marisha: Yeah, let's not tell anybody that we're leaving.
Sam: Carriage. Let's go. How much do they cost?
Marisha: Do we need a carriage? We have a stable full of horses.
Liam: Rein it in. We're going to fight vampires.
Matt: You have four horses, and you technically have the teleportation sigil for Westruun.
Laura: Oh yeah!
Orion: Is Briarwood keep over there?
Matt: Westruun's most of the way across the continent. It's about a day's ride out from Westruun.
Marisha: So that would shave time?
Matt: It would shave about three days off your journey.
Liam: Matt, I'm pretty sure it's "si-google."
Taliesin: Turst Fields is just northeast of Westruun.
Laura: Let's do it!
Liam: What's in those fields?
Matt: The Turst Fields are a farming community that takes care of a lot of the eastern side. They're not really an extension of Westruun, but it's one of the closest cities. And they do a lot of food trade up into Whitestone, or did previously.
Taliesin: It's where we would make our camp.
Marisha: Let's head there and make camp. And maybe talk about a plan.
Liam: Yes. I think, Percival, you're leading the way. Use my sister as an advisor, but you're leading the way right now.
Taliesin: I'm going to draw out a crude map while we make our way so I can let you all know where we're going.
Orion: Well, then join me in my laboratory, everyone.
Sam: All right, yes. We go to Tiberius's laboratory.
Matt: Okay. Tiberius, you go ahead and cast Teleportation Circle.
Orion: Not yet. I go, hey, look at the laboratory, guys. What do you think? Scanlan, it looks like you're impressed.
Sam: (dryly) Oh, I'm very impressed.
Matt: Now you cast Circle of Teleportation.
Orion: I use my sigil there. I got it set up there.
Matt: Yep, and the circle appears. You guys rush through it. You do not have your horses with you because they would not be able to travel through the teleportation circle with you. However, you could probably procure some while you're in Westruun. In doing that, you guys, for the case of brevity on this-- we've been missing that for a lot of this session.
Liam: Let's do this in real time.
Matt: We'll say the total gold to purchase horses for the whole party--
Laura: After I haggled. Because let's be honest, I would've.
Matt: You would've. Go ahead and make a persuasion roll.
Travis: You would've.
Orion: Even in real time.
Marisha: Do it.
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21? Okay, yeah, would put you at about, we'll say because you are renowned in this area and you've helped Westruun. Helped them during the Winter's Crest Festival the year before, using that discount. You manage to procure everyone's horses, including your warhorse, for 210 gold, which is a pretty decent discount.
Laura: Yes it is. All right.
Taliesin: Can I share my map?
Matt: You can, yeah.
Laura: (gasps) You made a map?
Sam: You drew that just now?
Taliesin: You know I've forged all of our documents? You are aware of that, right? Any time we've needed papers.
Laura: Wait, where is Westruun? Oh, there's Westruun, that's where we are right now. So we have to go-- I just spit on your map, Percy. Up through the woods, into the mountains. Whitestone is mountains.
Liam: You can handle that.
Laura: Yeah, I can handle both.
Travis: We're here, and we've got to go here.
Laura: Right.
Sam: Let's set out.
Matt: You have two paths. You have the path into the center of the Parchwood Woods that leads up into the valley of the Alabaster Sierras that surround it. That is the direct route to Whitestone that leads through the main pathway. The forest to the front of the city. There's also the Alabaster Sierras themselves, which surround that peninsula that extends into the northern part of the continent. They are very tall, fjord-like, craggy mountain ranges up against the sea along the edge. They're a little more treacherous, but a little more out of the way; a backdoor route. So you guys choose which route you want to take.
Taliesin: I would prefer not the direct route.
Orion: Always go in the backdoor.
Taliesin: Can you say that anything that is not laced with sexual innuendo?
Laura: Mountain ranges are part of my favored terrain. We don't get disadvantage traveling through.
Taliesin: I would prefer taking that direction. I don't want to head straight towards them.
Laura: There probably will be mountain giants, though, remember, that throw boulders and they will be terrible.
Taliesin: The Parchwood Forests are dangerous as they are. There's really no safe way.
Sam: I trust Percy; whatever you say.
Matt: Percy, you are aware that here have been problems in the past with various mountain-faring giants that lived north of Whitestone that occasionally would wander too far south. They mostly kept to themselves, but occasionally they had some crossover, there were some scuffles here and there. So you guys are deciding to take the Alabaster Sierras?
Laura: Yes. I want to cast Pass Without a Trace on everyone.
Matt: You guys head out from Westruun; it takes about a day's worth of travel. You stop in the Turst Fields. It's a small farming community. You ask around for a bit, most of the folks there say that they haven't had much trade or communication with Whitestone like they used to. They do still provide crops and such, but they don't allow anyone past into the actual forest. They trade at the boundary created by the forest. Still pay gold, but it seems to be more enclosed scenario, but very few folks there seem to question it. Business as usual is still left within Turst Fields. Make your way northward to the bottom of the Alabaster Sierras, and as you begin heading up the outskirts of this mountain range, you do notice that the mountains are extremely high in altitude. There's a perpetual climb at nearly a 40-degree angle as you continue upward further and further and further. The drop-off at the edge of the cliff is 1,000 to 2,000 feet at times, straight down into the ocean or rocks below. There are paths worn up here; it has been used as travel before. Although you're uncertain as to how recently it may have been traversed. Occasionally, the wind picks up and you have to steel yourself, push yourself against the side. The path, thankfully, is maybe 15, 20, sometimes 30 feet in width. It's not too much where you're being forced against the edge, but it's enough to be aware of the danger of the circumstance. You guys are heading up, I'd say, about half a day's travel, it's about 2:00 in the afternoon. Also, you can tell there are slight outcroppings a few hundred feet down to the bottom, a few bits of stone that jut out from the side. You can see small nests or bushes that have taken root on those side areas. The rock itself of this mountain range is unusually, unnaturally white. The actual rock that forms this entire region is almost a glowing quartz-like texture. There are parts that are almost translucent, there are parts that are very milky white. Number one, you can now understand as to partially why the area is called Whitestone, the town nearby, and you've heard mention from Percy in the past of the large quarries here that mine the stone for various uses and export it throughout all of Tal'Dorei. That's where a large portion of the town was built around that trade at the beginning of its construction. Eventually, you come to a point where there is a falloff on the path, where the erosion or some sort of large impact of the side caused the path to fall into a scooped crevasse that is a smooth fall down the side. There is no way across other than a large sea salt air-rotted rope bridge that goes across about a hundred feet. You see it rocking (creaking) with the wind.
Travis: I don't think this looks very stable.
Laura: Man, you know what I would give for a flying fucking carpet right now?
Sam: So the bridge is out?
Matt: No, the bridge can be crossed. It looks a little rickety. It's not terrible or frightening, but it's been there for a while, and you can tell from the color of the rope--
Sam: How far is it across?
Matt: A hundred feet.
Orion: Should I go first, everyone?
Taliesin: I want to inspect it from an engineering perspective, if that's possible.
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Ten.
Matt: Okay. Looking at it, I mean, the anchors are pretty solid in the stonework. There's no looseness to their element. The rope itself is taut and seems to have serviced long enough. There are no signs of extreme wear other than just time and weather.
Liam: I'm going to walk forward.
Laura: I'm going to tie the fucking rope around your waist before you do that.
Taliesin: That's quite a good idea!
Liam: Sarenrae, jeepers. I'm going to use perception, I'm going to look at it before going out. That is a 23.
Matt: All right. Are you taking your horse with you?
Liam: I leave my horse with my sister. I'm on foot; I'm on all fours, really. Spidering out.
Matt: Making your way across, you get halfway across the bridge. There's a creaking sound and slight movement as the wind picks up at times and you (creaking).
Liam: So I'm lasting. What would I make, is it an insight check to decide if I thought Grog could make it across this thing?
Matt: Make an intelligence check. Roll and add your intelligence modifier.
Taliesin: It's a ten.
Liam: Take that zero off it, and you've got it.
Matt: Best you can tell, Grog looks like a big guy.
Liam: This is fun. You swing back and forth. Grog, I think you might like this!
Marisha: How far across is the bridge? A hundred feet?
Taliesin: Once you're across, let's secure the rope that's attached to you, and we'll make ourselves a guideline that we can hang onto.
Laura: I like it.
Liam: All right, he sounds like a Debbie Downer, Grog, but I'll go across, and you can follow.
Matt: Okay, you make the rest of your way across. No issue. The rope bridge carries your weight all the way.
Laura: Tie a rope. I tie the other side.
Liam: Is there anything on the other side I could tie it to?
Matt: There's a couple of small cliffside trees that grow off in strange twisting bonsai tree-like branches that stick off. They're pretty sturdy.
Liam: I use a sailor knot.
Laura: I use a special ranger knot that's really extra strong.
Matt: Secret ranger knot. Well played. (laughter)
Matt: Who's up next?
Liam: I double-knot mine.
Sam: We've got to get the horses across.
Travis: No, they ain't coming.
Sam: They're not coming? Oh. Well, I just Dimension Door across, then.
Liam: Jeepers! Will you warn a half-elf when you're going to do that?
Matt: Spooks you for a second. You hold on and you make your way across. You guys are now on the other side. You're holding onto everyone's horses left behind.
Laura: Trinket.
Travis: I tie up all the horses to a very large tree.
Marisha: Are we going by foot now?
Laura: Looks like it. Tiberius, are you still on our side? Are you with me, still? Will you cast Fly on Trinket? I love you.
Orion: Sure. To make it across?
Laura: I can climb on him and you cast Fly and you only have to use one little spell.
Orion: If I cast it on him, I would probably jump on myself, because I'm a little bit heavier than you are, darling.
Laura: Then do it!
Liam: She's haggling you right now.
Orion: You can have him afterwards.
Laura: Yeah, you can go, and I'll just use the little rope.
Orion: Fine. Proceed.
Matt: You cast Fly on Trinket--
Orion: No, I don't. I don't do shit yet. I wait for you guys to get across, so if something happens, then I can cast it.
Laura: Okay, just protect him.
Matt: So you get on Trinket's back?
Laura: No, he hasn't cast it on him yet.
Matt: So who's going across now?
Laura: I am!
Matt: Okay, you make it across. No problem. You're light enough and able to guide the movement of the bridge.
Laura: Good thing I only had one frittata the other day!
Marisha: Here's my question. What looks shaky, the connection of the bridge or the actual, physical condition of the bridge itself?
Matt: The physical condition of the bridge. There is no actual visible point that is--
Marisha: For bonus added safety in case this bridge gives way, I'm going to cast Grasping Vine and have it loop and wrap around the edge of the bridge. Further enforce it.
Matt: The vines reach around and wrap around the edges of the wood slats and the rope handholds, and it seems to be pretty well-held on that side.
Taliesin: Clever!
Marisha: At least that side will be fine. And then I'll go across.
Matt: Cool, you make it across without a problem.
Travis: Who else needs to go across?
Laura: Just you and Tiberius and Trinket.
Travis: You want me to go first?
Orion: It's fine! I hop on Trinket and I pet Lockheed. And then I hop on Trinket and I cast Fly on him and say, Remember how to go across. And then as we start flying across, I cast Telekinesis on Grog and take him with me. Kind of like Green Lantern.
Marisha: Concentration spells.
Orion: Yeah. That should be 12 seconds to get across a bridge, right?
Matt: Yeah, that would be 12 seconds, which will be enough time. So as you're coasting over with Trinket, floating (bear sounds) you turn around and cast Telekinesis. Grog, all of a sudden, you're lifted up and held aloft. You look down over yourself, waving your hands instinctually. Looking down, you can see a 600, 700 foot drop before the rock comes to a point which would probably splinter or crush anyone who fell into it, and then is pushed out to the ocean. So it's a little scary, but you start flailing about as you're being pulled across by Tiberius. Eventually, Trinket comes, lands on the other side safely. You guide Grog over, down onto his feet. Safe and sound.
Marisha: Who's left?
Sam: No one. The horses.
Laura: Oh yeah, what do you want to do with the horses?
Travis: We tied them up.
Orion: I'm going to dispel the Fly. But I'm going to hold the Telekinesis for the ten minutes I can on Grog. I'm not going to do anything, I'm just going to keep that spell going.
Matt: Okay. Cool. All righty.
Sam: I say a prayer of thanks to the horses, who will surely die of starvation.
Laura: They were tied up in a super grassy area with a shit-ton of water around.
Liam: They'll be eaten by something long before that. It's fine.
Marisha: So what's our plan? What are we doing?
Sam: The plan is walk until we get there.
Matt: The path pinches a little bit tighter as you go across, about a ten foot width and you guys begin pulling across. There's a sudden large gust of sea air blows in as you guys go ahead and buckle down to hold on. I'd like you all to roll an athletics check.
Laura: Are we in mountains yet? So I have advantage?
Matt: You have advantage on it.
Travis: Me too, because mountains are my favorite--
Matt: That's true, yeah!
Laura: What is this, acrobatics?
Sam: Athletics.
Laura: Athletics.
Sam: Nine. ORION. 18.
Marisha: 19.
Taliesin: Ten.
Laura: 11.
Travis: 23.
Matt: All right, as you guys are holding tight, both Scanlan and Vax are trying to grab something, holding onto rocks, but before they can get enough, they're both so small, it pushes them out.
Orion: How much time has passed?
Matt: It's three seconds. Oh! Passed since the bridge? About five, six minutes.
Orion: Can I try to catch them because I still have the Telekinesis going?
Matt: You can catch one of them.
Orion: (yelling) Why, Matthew?!
Matt: Because the spell has to be directed!
Marisha: Are they flying off a cliff?
Matt: They're both being dragged by the wind off the side of the cliff. You can see them grabbing the ground. Vax is being pulled off the side as Scanlan is actually lifted off his feet.
Orion: I know Vax can't. I grab Vax!
Liam: Tell my sister I love her!
Travis: I jump and try and grab Vex.
Laura: Vax. You want to hold me?
Liam: I'm Vox.
Orion: Wait, you're grabbing him?
Laura: I'm Vex.
Travis: That's what I said!
Matt: You grab Vax and hold him in place as you reach out and grab Vax by the arms and pull him back onto--
Liam: Wait, who?
Orion: You!
Liam: Oh, he grabs me!
Travis: I grab her.
Laura: Grog grabbed me.
Matt: You were fine.
Laura: I know. But he still said he'd grabbed me.
Matt: Okay. Then you're being held aloft by Tiberius' Telekinesis concentrating. Scanlan has fallen out of view.
Marisha: I Grasping Vine him before he goes out of view.
Matt: Okay. It's all right.
Marisha: Off the side of the cliff.
Matt: Go ahead and make an attack roll with your Grasping Vine.
Orion: I can manipulate a thousand pounds.
Liam: You've got me.
Marisha: What?!
Matt: This is to aim the vine as he falls.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: 19? Not a problem! The vine grabs Scanlan and pulls him back and holds him as the wind slowly dies down.
Orion: I guide Vax back to the cliff.
Matt: The wind dies down. You guys now begin pushing yourselves close to the edge of this pathway up the side of this seaside cliff. It doesn't seem to deviate much beyond that 15-foot width now, which puts you all at general unease. As the sun's getting closer and closer to setting, you're making your way around the crest. You've been traveling this mountain range for a good number of hours now. You're at a decent height, you're on foot, a good distance inside the Alabaster Sierra mountain range. Perception check, everyone.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Travis: Five.
Sam: Four.
Matt: Three, two, one.
Marisha: 25.
Taliesin: 26.
Liam: 29.
Laura: 25.
Orion: I rolled a natural one, with negative two.
Matt: Okay! Those of you with a higher perception than 20 on this roll. As you pull along, you hear this echoing sound, this (bird-like sounds) in the distance, the wind's carrying it as it's blowing past you.
Marisha: Does it sounds like anything nature-based? Something I could possibly have talked to in the past?
Taliesin: Is it something I would know?
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence check. You go ahead and make a nature check.
Taliesin: 21.
Marisha: 25.
Matt: It is birdish in nature, but it sounds too guttural and too articulate to be a bird. There is enough of-- you notice there's a language of the chittering that is bird-like, but there is actual voice. You recall that there are various creatures that make the cliffsides home. One of the ones that are more obnoxious that some of the earlier traders of Whitestone had problems with making this path for mining were clusters of harpies.
Marisha: Oh, fucking harpies.
Taliesin: Harpies.
Orion: Harpies.
Orion: They're the opposite of the Harpers, which are good.
Travis: What's a harpy?
Orion: A harpy's a jerk, a stupid butthole who's super loud.
Matt: You glance over as you guys are having this conversation. Behind you, you can see in the distance from where you were, a couple of these dark shapes swooping down. You see a cluster of about four or five of these harpies diving.
Taliesin: Can we find a place to maybe settle down?
Laura: Can we stealth? I cast Pass Without a Trace on us!
Sam: Don't worry! I can make us all look like cows again!
Marisha: (shushes) Everyone be quiet! MATT How long is the concentration on Pass Without a Trace? How long can you hold that concentration?
Laura: Up to one hour.
Matt: Okay. It has faded since then.
Marisha: Where are we against the mountain? Are we still on the mountain edge?
Matt: Yeah, you're still on the path, and you look back from where you came from.
Marisha: So we have a mountain behind our backs?
Matt: Yeah, a sheer cliff.
Marisha: I turn around and I cast Move Earth, my 6th-level fucker. And I (boof) and I clear out a cave.
Matt: Okay. As you're concentrating on this, eventually, Keyleth begins to focus, and over the next minute or so, she begins to push a cavern.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on us now.
Matt: Okay. As this is happening, you can see the harpies have definitely found some sort of prey. They're distracted as they're slowly tearing apart what you gather are the horses you left behind.
Laura: Oh no! Terrible!
Matt: Yeah. Good news is, they're distracted.
Marisha: Horses saved our lives, guys.
Matt: Bad news is they're probably not going to be there when you come back.
Taliesin: It's getting dark. I think we should camp.
Liam: So you're saying there's a chance.
Matt: Over the next few minutes or so, Keyleth, you've pushed a good ten by 15-foot cavern into the side of this wall that didn't previously exist. You guys are able to step out of the light as the sun's starting to disappear over the mountain range, the Cliffkeep, which you can see in the distance across this channel now. There's a channel of water between the two.
Marisha: I go ahead and Druidcraft a little campfire. Tiberius, you want to light a fire for us?
Laura: I'm going to use Hide in Plain Sight. I'm going to see if I can do this. That sort of ability to camouflage the opening of the cave to where they wouldn't be able to see it.
Matt: Sure! Go ahead and make a stealth check.
Laura: 28.
Matt: Okay! You take the next 15 minutes or so, finding what nearby pieces of brush you can and rocks that have been loosely around the area and you start setting up this pattern of them that closes off some of the entrance from the smooth opening that Keyleth had created. It takes a little ingenuity because it's just a rock opening, and there isn't a whole lot of brush and things around. But you feel you've managed to mask it to the point that to a distant eye it would be hard to see that there is an actual cavern there. At this point, the sun has set, night has come in, and you guys are sitting within this cavern hearing the distant sound of the ocean waves crashing against the bottom of these cliffside, coastal fjords.
Marisha: Me and Tiberius made a fire.
Matt: All right, a fire is made.
Orion: I lit it with my spitting.
Matt: Okay. Tiberius forms a relatively useful and effective campfire within this cave.
Laura: Oh! I want to use my holy oil and dip a couple arrows in the holy oil because I know I can make three based on what we've done before.
Matt: You can, yes. Do be aware, the holy oil will only last about a day.
Laura: Oh, really? Oh, so I'll do that right before.
Matt: It's one of those things where if you dip it now and leave it, over time it'll just either evaporate or drip off of the arrow.
Laura: Good to know.
Liam: While my sister's looking at her shit, I bogart Trinket and climb up onto him, use him like a sleeping bag and cuddle into his softest warm parts and fall asleep.
Matt: (bear groaning) Trinket, at first, just haplessly pushes you away, but recognizes your scent and lets you.
Laura: You ganked my sleeping bag.
Liam: Sorry, not sorry.
Orion: I find a little patch of dust and do a little dust bath real quick and then I'm going to use one of my books of stuffs and start researching liches just because I want to.
Matt: Okay. I mean, what book would you be researching this in?
Orion: Tobin's Spirit Guide?
Matt: The researcher ability is that you can go to places of research and find books. You don't really keep a tome of all knowledge with you. The next time you find a town or you're in town, then you can use that ability to research in advance.
Laura: I ask Grog how he's doing.
Travis: I'm bored as shit.
Laura: You want to arm wrestle?
Travis: No.
Laura: All right.
Sam: Come on, do it, Grog! Come on, you can't beat a girl?
Matt: Do you guys all rest for the evening?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: But we should take watch.
Taliesin: I'm still awake. I'm going to fall asleep last.
Marisha: I also stay up with Percy.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'll take first watch.
Laura: Wake me up when you're tired.
Orion: I'm gonna feed Lockheed some treats.
Matt: Okay. You guys continue your business for the evening.
Marisha: I talk to Percy for a second. Percy, while we're alone for a moment, there's something that's been bothering me, and I can't get it out of my head. I thought I'd talk to you about it because I feel-- we're friends, right? We're friends? Are we friends?
Taliesin: Sure! I'd like to think so, yes.
Marisha: Been through a lot, been together a while.
Taliesin: It's been a while, yes.
Marisha: Two years now?
Taliesin: I suppose.
Sam: I go invisible to see if I can hear their conversation.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Sam: Perception or stealth? 20.
Matt: Okay. You are keeping relatively low and are able to overhear their conversation.
Marisha: You know, you're a very brilliant person.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: I can't help but feel like I'm being watched right now. Never mind, forget I said anything. I can't help but feel like there's something else, there's something more to this that you're not telling us. And I didn't really think of anything until we were having that fight where Tiberius brutally murdered that old woman.
Taliesin: Been trying not to think about it.
Marisha: Yeah, me too. But the one thing that I can't get out of my head was something that you said during that fight. And for a long time I was like, damn, Percy's got really cool one-liners and he's so smart, and I wish I could have cool one-liners. You and Grog have really cool one-liners. And then you said "your soul is now forfeit" to the person you shot that night. And I thought, wow! That was an interesting one-liner.
Taliesin: I did say that, didn't I?
Marisha: Yeah! Yeah, you did. For some reason, I was the only one who noticed it, and I don't know if that's because I'm just reading into things, if that was just a really awesome, but scary and brutal thing to say in the moment, or if there's something deeper that you might be serving.
Taliesin: Honestly, I'll say, I've had a number of years thinking about what I would do and what I would say and how I would go about this. This kind of obsession is not healthy, and I know that, and it's no way to live. And I'm sure that was something on the list of things I thought I would say, some attempt to be scary when I met them, as opposed to being scared, I think I was-- (sighs) again, I don't really remember much because I was so angry. I've never been so angry. And I think I was just trying to sound threatening. And I'd had these dreams before, you know I've-- you don't build anything like this without the knowledge that you're-- I'm aware that inventing this thing has been a mistake.
Marisha: What thing?
Taliesin: I pull out my gun.
Marisha: Wait, what are you saying? You had knowledge? You didn't build that without inspiration? What do you mean?
Taliesin: I've had thoughts about it, but I didn't really think about what I was doing or what I was going to build until I decided to take my revenge, and I'd never thought about building it because I realized what a dangerous idea it was. (sighs) And I fear for the day that that comes back to haunt me. I don't know what I'll do, but I don't know, I think I was just trying to say something to be intimidating. I honestly didn't even think I was going to kill him, it just happened.
Marisha: Can I see if he's lying to me?
Matt: Go ahead and make an insight check.
Marisha: 17.
Matt: 17. Roll a d20.
Taliesin: Is your insight really that good?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm wise as fuck!
Matt: And add your charisma modifier.
Taliesin: Add my charisma modifier? 18.
Matt: Best you can tell, he's seeming honest, and sharing open-hearted to you. You feel like you've really gotten to the core truth of what Percy's about.
Marisha: What? What did you say?
Matt: You feel like you've gotten to the core and truth of what Percy's about, and perhaps your questioning this has upset him, and you feel like maybe you've pushed this a little too far.
Taliesin: I do regret what happened and I know he was a bad man, but I still hope to never lose my temper like that again.
Liam: Got to roleplay that shit. He convinced you.
Marisha: I still really feel like we're being watched. Do you feel that? I don't know.
Taliesin: Honestly, I think we both need sleep.
Marisha: It's really distracting. Yeah. Well, I love you.
Taliesin: I love you, too.
Marisha: We're in this with you until this end.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: Let's sleep.
Matt: Okay. You guys, through your turns, the evening goes by uneventful. Morning comes to you. You can hear the distant caws of seagulls waking you up as the heat from the morning sun begins to eventually hit this side of the cave. Since you're on this side of the mountain, by the time you wake up, you realize the hour's probably a little bit past noon.
Laura: Oh shit.
Marisha: We overslept!
Orion: It's so dark in here, because of the cave thing.
Marisha: Okay, so wait. Percy, how much further out are we from Whitestone?
Matt: You gather you probably have about a day's worth of travel, and you'll be able to make your way down into the ravine from here. You've come up quite a bit of the mountain range.
Taliesin: Probably another day before we can camp close enough to attack.
Sam: Let's get going.
Laura: Should we stealth through the mountains, just in case they have any kind of lookouts?
Orion: Oh, they will have lookouts.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on us again.
Liam: Let's go slower.
Laura: Should we all stealth? Try at least?
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: Let's keep stealthy.
Matt: Okay. You guys gather outside of the cavern and head up, continuing along this path. Eventually, you do notice that the path becomes broken and too steep to continue. It actually falls and tumbles down into this long, sliding ravine. There is a slight rockslide trail that you could climb up and over and it looks like there is a separate ravine, or a separation where the two mountains join, that could possibly be traversed. But continuing on the seaside path is not going to work. It does bring you inward towards-- maybe a little further south than you would have wanted to for optimal backdoor entrance into Whitestone, but it's about your only path.
Taliesin: Have I walked this path before? I never walked this path at all.
Matt: You would have had no reason to walk this path. You've heard about it, you know of this side of the mountain range, but based on your history, there's no reason you would have come here.
Orion: Whatever it takes to get to that back door.
Matt: Everyone make a stealth check, by the way. Just so we're aware of what your stealth rolls are with the Pass Without a Trace.
Laura: Add ten to it.
Liam: You get ten? Oh. Well, I got a 40, then.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: 27
Matt: 27.
Orion: Nine.
Matt: With the ten?
Orion: Oh, 19.
Marisha: 32.
Taliesin: 32.
Travis: 27.
Laura: 37.
Matt: That's a pretty good spread. So you guys, you've hit the edge of the path. Are you heading up the rockslide trail?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Okay. You all, one by one, begin to climb over the trail and some rocks tumble loose beneath your feet, grasp. And you help each other get to the very top.
Orion: I use my Mage Hand to help.
Matt: (laughs) That's adorable. (laughter)
Laura: As he looks at the clock! "That's adorable."
Matt: So you all eventually manage to make it over the top of the rockslide trail and eventually it leads you to where these two large mountains come together, and there is a small path that leads between. It winds and travels downward. You can see bits of the rock have fallen and crumbled, and there are small boulders and such that just, over time and through erosion, have tumbled down this ravine to start filling it with occasional chunks of stone. You begin walking through this ravine for another good 45 minutes to an hour, keeping a keen eye out.
Orion: Is this the same ravine that we're travelling across?
Matt: Basically, you guys have been traveling up the side of the coast. You've now turned inward over the mountain range to head down into the valley of Whitestone. You are currently just now heading up through the mountain range, inwards towards the mountain.
Taliesin: Is this the river?
Matt: There's no river here. It's just stone that comes together for a pathway in between. This is where two large peaks of the mountains basically come to join at the bottom.
Taliesin: Okay, so we're not at the river.
Matt: No, the river is actually inside the valley and to the south of Whitestone. So pressing down I would like you all to roll a perception check.
Laura: Jesus.
Marisha: Ah, that's all right.
Sam: One!
Laura: Natural 20!
Liam: Natural 20!
Liam: Yeah!
Matt: One, one, 20, 20.
Orion: 16.
Marisha: 14.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: Okay. As all of you guys are charging forward, both Vex and Vax, you hear this slight noise of a couple rocks (clattering) in the ravine behind you. You both turn and look and for a split second you swear you see between some of the rocks and paths of jagged stone that mark the walls of this ravine, you see a quick blur of blue that vanishes behind a higher platform above you.
Liam: Smurfs!
Laura: A blur of blue?
Matt: A large blur of blue just disappears behind one of the outcroppings that's blocking your view of higher up the ravine.
Laura: (shushes) Down. Hide.
Orion: I cast Stoneskin.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Stealth.
Orion: I fasten my Cloak of Displacement.
Laura: And I prepare--
Matt: You guys prepare for a second, and as you're all paying attention, you guys also see another shift of blue (whoosh) go across the way. And this time you see it's something large and blue that moves across the stone and goes into a small cavern that looks about 25 feet up the way that's just past your visual range from this low in the ravine.
Laura: Do we have any visual on what it could be?
Matt: It moved very quickly, and for a split second, you could see it appeared to be-- the way it moved was almost serpentine, like (whoosh) and vanished inside. You swear you saw limbs, though. It wasn't a giant snake. There was something attached to it.
Laura: (whispering) Wyvern? I look at Keyleth. Keyleth. (louder) And I whisper, but for sake of microphones, do you know of a creature that's blue, and fast, and is kind of snakey but has arms and legs?
Marisha: Let me think about it for a second. Do I know a creature that's blue and snakey?
Liam: It sounds like basilisks, but they're too slow.
Matt: What did you roll?
Marisha: I don't know. Ooh, that's 24.
Matt: 24. You've heard of various lizard-like creatures that grow to large sizes. Usually those fall into the realm of dragons and such. The color blue, though, is uncommon, unless it were a blue dragon. However, the motion of this creature does not seem to necessarily be the territory of a blue dragon. It's hard to point exactly what this is, but you do know it's probably something in the serpentine-type magical realm.
Taliesin: I heard them, I heard them describe it. Would I know it from the description? Just from my local knowledge?
Matt: Go ahead and make a history check.
Marisha: The blue thing's weird. The blue thing is what's throwing me.
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: Nine. Unfortunately, nothing of this type has come across you. If it has, it's been too long, and you've forgotten it. There are a number of dangerous things that exist in these mountains.
Laura: I've got a really good idea. Wait. No! Grog, pick up something really heavy, and throw it as far as you can.
Travis: I go over and I grab Scanlan--
Sam: No!
Laura: A boulder or something.
Travis: I put Scanlan down. Find a large rock that's tumbled down, maybe.
Matt: Yeah, they're easy to find. There's like some that are this big, some that are larger. They're really heavy.
Travis: And I discus the thing and (whoosh).
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Travis: Well, that was great. 24.
Matt: (whoosh) You release the rock. (impact) It skids to a halt. As it does, you can see suddenly over the course (whoosh) something very quickly move, and it's a head. It's a snout. You see it's probably a good six, seven-foot wide. A giant, lizard-like, toothy jaw. Blue scales against it with large kind of horned ridges across the back of its head. And its claws (clacking) on the edge. Looks down. Looks down at the rest of you. Rears back.
Laura: It saw us?
Liam: Didn't see me.
Orion: Well, of course it saw us.
Laura: With 37 stealth, yo. It saw us?
Marisha: But it didn't seem to give a shit?
Matt: It just withdrew over the edge.
Sam: Should we run?
Laura: Maybe just move really fast away from him
Marisha: I can, I can cast Anti-Life Shell on us. Then we can haul ass really fast.
Sam: Will it move with us, your shell?
Marisha: Yeah, as long as you stay close to me. It moves with me.
Liam: Yeah, fuck this thing. Let's get out of here.
Marisha: Okay! I cast Anti-Life Shell. Stay close!
Matt: Okay. As you begin casting and finish the spell. As the sphere appears-- at which point you now see a large blue blur (whoosh) dart off of the cliffside into the air (impact noise) and skidding right in front of you guys, blocking off the side of the ravine you guys were running towards. You can now see it: a huge, elongated, serpentine body covered in blue scales and horns. You can see what looks to be six to eight arms and a series of legs all across its long, snakelike torso. As it looks it snarls at you all (snarls). And you see sparks of energy, electricity (sparking noises) in its jaw. (growls, roars)
Liam: Salamander?
Matt: And that's where we're going it end tonight! (yelling)
Laura: Oh, jeez Louise!
Sam: You can't do that!
Matt: I can, because it's 10 30.
Liam: No, it's not. It's like 8 45.
Matt: We can keep going if you guys want to stay long. It's Thursday night.
Zac: I'm coming to you with my laptop before you continue.
Liam: Who's that guy?
Matt: But to give you a little perspective, that is what essentially you'd be facing. (loud reactions)
Laura: What the fuck? It's got so many arms.
Liam: That's a kobold.
Matt: Yeah, totally. Kobold. [end of transcript]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone and good evening. Welcome to Critical Role, a show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. This will be our final episode for the year before we take our holiday break, and for those of you who aren't currently in the theater to see Star Wars or are not planning to leave in the next five minutes to go see Star Wars, which we do not begrudge you that whatsoever; many of us will be rushing off after this to do the same. For those of you staying with us, thank you for kicking it and may the Force be with you when this is over. So before we get started, let's go ahead and get a few announcements out of the way. One, for those of you who have been waiting extensively, because I know you have been. Tomorrow, on the website you will have the Snugglelord playlist will be premiering on GeekandSundry.com.
Zac: It's completely serious!
Matt: It's totally serious.
Marisha: So serial.
Matt: Super serial, guys. Like, so serial.
Taliesin: For real-real, not for play-play.
Matt: (laughs) The next announcement, we had our Critmas article go up earlier this week, our Critter's Guide to Critmas, where we each talk about the different charities that we represent and if you want to try and give something to the show and the goodwill we put out for that, it's a really great way to see what each of us would like to see presented or supported by the community. So if you haven't had a chance, go check it out and feel some holiday spirit to give, go ahead and pick any that are there or any of your own charities and do what you can to help. So, appreciate that guys. Also, the most recent comic went live for our Winter's Crest festival.
Liam: It's a good one.
Laura: It is a good one.
Taliesin: Grog pranking.
Marisha: Grog pranking.
Taliesin: Everybody loves Grog pranking.
Liam: It's a flight of fancy. It did not happen in our game. It should have, but it didn't.
Marisha: Yeah. It's art imitating life.
Taliesin: We had to fluff it up a bit.
Marisha: There was fluffing. Just a little massaging.
Taliesin: Especially for you, we had to, we had to fluff.
Matt: The two fluffers.
Marisha: Three.
Matt: (laughs) Yeah, so go check it out, it's a lot of fun and plays into our Winter's Crest festival this evening, though that one took place a year ago in game technically. Two years, I guess, in game-- no, it was a year because the original-- and all the events that transpired after that, there was the make-up Winter's Crest festival. You don't know what we're talking about, but you may soon.
Taliesin: Just act like you know.
Matt: Which, speaking of which, we have a little gift for you guys at the break today. We're going to have an extended mid-way break because we have a gift that we've all put together for you that I think you'll enjoy.
Taliesin: It's cool.
Laura: It's so exciting.
Matt: So, look forward to that.
Marisha: So no peeing today. No pee breaks.
Taliesin: Like Star Wars, just hold it until it's over.
Matt: Or be like me, just put in a catheter beforehand, works out really well. Don't do that, don't do that. Please don't do that. (laughs) Thanks for the support, guys. And Wyrmwood Gaming. Liam, if you want to go grab that real fast?
Liam: Wyrmwood Gaming, they make gorgeous, beautiful gaming boxes. They make lovely Christmas presents and if you use the code CritRole, you will not have to pay for shipping on your Wyrmwood Gaming order. They're gorgeous.
Travis: Smells like twenties. Natural twenties. I'm working on it. I'm polishing.
Taliesin: Keep workshopping that.
Travis: Yeah, I'm working on it.
Matt: We'll have a Sam here with us shortly.
Laura: Oh, Sam is here.
Travis: I'll go get him!
Matt: Very shortly.
Laura: Go, Travis, run like the wind!
Liam: Clarence! Bring the gnome in, Clarence!
Matt: I guess while we're waiting for him-- (laughs) Travis is going to be really disappointed. (laughter)
Liam: Ah, Grog pranked again!
Sam: It's okay, I'll go get Travis.
Taliesin: (sings Benny Hill theme)
Matt: This is the rest of our show tonight. Just three hours of this. It's going to be great. So, if you want to show the cookies that--
Taliesin: Oh, yeah. My girlfriend made cookies for-- I'll put this one on the--
Matt: On the mat, here?
Laura: I took a picture.
Marisha: Hold them closer to the camera. Hold them to the sky.
Liam: Wow, that was what that camera was purchased for.
Matt: This is now officially the cookie cam.
Laura: Raise them up, Taliesin. Raise them to the air. Closer to the camera.
Matt: How do--
Laura: You want oh wah ta goo.
Matt: How do Pike do this?
Marisha: (laughs) How do Pike do this?
Matt: How do Grog do this?
Laura: They're so cute. There's little baby Trinkets.
Travis: It's really pretty. And it makes it hard to eat.
Marisha: I like the little gingerbread, with little lederhosen and they got little goats and reindeer in lederhosen.
Laura: This is exciting, you guys.
Matt: Travis. Can you let Sam in for me?
Travis: He's already here.
Liam: Christmas TPK.
Marisha: Oh, look at that Keyleth one!
Laura: But they're so cute, I don't want to eat it.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: I'll have a snowflake, please.
Matt: Any other announcements you wish to make, or shall we go onward?
Travis: Any other announcements we should make, you fucking-- cookie-- pass arounder? Cookie distributor?
Laura: Oh! You know what, I do have something.
Liam: What's that?
Laura: Glitter Force. It's a new show. It's going to be on Netflix tomorrow. So I play the main girl, so that's exciting.
Marisha: Oh, that's awesome.
Laura: It's great for little girls.
Travis: (muffled) Super cute and funny.
Laura: Yeah it is, it's adorable and it's funny.
Liam: And 25-year-old guys.
Laura: And 25-- whoever wants to watch it.
Marisha: Are they going to make the next Bronies?
Laura: I don't know, but there are like a lot of-- I mean, it's called the Glitter Force. There are a lot of cute little make-up accessories.
Liam: I already have all the merchandise.
Laura: Yeah. I'm touching every cookie in this box.
Matt: How very Vex of you (laughs).
Taliesin: There's also some whipped cream if you want to dip.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: Touch all the whipped cream, too.
Matt: And on that note. (laughter)
Matt: Let us go ahead and bring our way into this evening's game. So, to-- hey!
Taliesin: Sorry.
Matt: It's all good. Sam will show up; it's fine.
Travis: It's like the devil. Say his name and he will appear.
Sam: I couldn't find Travis anywhere.
Liam: Cookie icing on your lips.
Travis: You look like you literally came from the set of Mad Max. Did you just witness?
Liam: Glam rock.
Travis: Did he tell you he loved you, or what?
Sam: They had me eat--
Laura: Oh, I know what it is. Okay.
Sam: Some stuff.
Taliesin: Scanlan stocking cookie there.
Sam: Oh, that's so nice.
Matt: That's adorable. All right.
Travis: We're locked in!
Matt: Let's do this. Bring it in. So, to get you guys up to speed quickly, for those of you who are coming in fresh. Oh, what an episode to jump into. So, the intrepid group of adventurers known as Vox Machina had made their way to the city of Whitestone, a town that Percival here grew up in and had taken from him and his family five years ago, most of his family, the de Rolos, being murdered in the process. The Briarwoods, who had taken the town rather quickly and covertly held it for five years had now been building toward some sort of a ritual, some sort of event that the party was investigating. They incited a rebellion within the city of Whitestone, gathering the remaining members to take up arms and fight against this undead scourge that had kept them locked down for so long, oppressed for so long. After managing to take out some of the various operatives under the Briarwoods' regime, they made their way into Castle Whitestone itself, saved Percy's sister, Cassandra, thought dead for a long time, got vengeance upon a number of individuals that were on his List, except for Ripley, who got away. Fought their way down underneath the city of Whitestone, fell into an acid-based trap, made their way to the ziggurat, this construct beneath the city of Whitestone, where some ritual was attempting to be completed by Lady Delilah Briarwood. It was discovered that the patron they spoke of, the Whispered One, had been in previous bits of history spoken as Vecna, a powerful lich of ancient history that had attempted to ascend to godhood at some point in the past. They managed to tackle the Briarwoods, destroy Sylas, defeat Delilah, and dragging them back, decided to interrogate. In the process of trying to extract information, Percy's dark harbinger, his dark passenger, if you will... who was a tongue-waggling dog for a moment.
Taliesin: I was making an evil shadow.
Matt: I see.
Taliesin: Evil shadow.
Liam: "Kill them all, Percy. Kill them all."
Matt: Pressured to incite the vengeance that apparently the pact he made with this entity required. Upon fighting its will, it was jettisoned from his form and the party battled this deranged greater smoke demon-like entity in the center of this cavern. During this fight, Lady Briarwood tried to escape, however, found a dagger in the middle of her back, thanks to Vax over there.
Laura: Good job.
Matt: Stripped of her possessions, and then Cassandra dragging her into the nearby acid baths, tossing her body within to leave her story to a definite conclusion. Scanlan, being very astute, apparently, in some observations, and as convincing as he can be, managed to wrestle Percy's weapon, his List, his Pepperbox, from his grip, and tossed it into the very acid pits, destroying his greatest creation and in doing so, seemingly breaking whatever hold this shadow demon had on Percy's soul.
Sam: The Way of the Gun.
Travis: The Quick and the Dead.
Liam: A couple weeks in detox and you'll be fine.
Marisha: It's true.
Laura: It was an intervention, Percy.
Sam: Had to be done.
Matt: Upon returning to the city of Whitestone, they found the rebellion was successful. The undead hordes had fallen to the blades of the surviving rallying warriors of Whitestone. Keeper Yennen, who currently was the, essentially, leader of the rebellion while you guys were going into the castle, met with you. You guys were brought to the center of town, where you began to see the rest of Whitestone emerge: the families, the children, the people that had been too scared to go outside finally came out to celebrate victory, the first real breath of free air they've had in five years since the Briarwoods took the city. Some justice was doled to a few survivors of the Briarwoods' regime. And you were asked to stay behind to help rebuild and prepare for the coming Winter's Crest festival, of which you agreed. A few awkward moments and a few delightful bits of interpersonal comedy brought you guys to this point and now we begin tonight's session of Critical Role. So, to start off, leading up to this Winter's Crest festival, about a two-week period, what would you guys like to individually do in this time to prepare for the festival?
Travis: We have two weeks?
Matt: Yeah, essentially. The two-week period, we're doing a bit of a time jump here, so if there's anything in particular you want to do or attempt in this time period, now's the time to do so before we get to the actual event.
Travis: I had a question. Could I go around lifting up various wagons and maybe ponies, working out to try to increase my strength? (laughter)
Travis: Or just randomly picking shit up and not have an excuse for it. That was good, too.
Marisha: I mean, the town's in tatters. You could be productive and pick things up.
Travis: Yeah! Or you know, I pick up a hammer in the morning.
Laura: And you're helping to rebuild.
Travis: Yeah!
Sam: Like Rocky IV.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: Yeah, in a brilliant holiday montage, as the cold weather finds its way into the valley of Whitestone, Grog goes around aiding many of the groups repairing and reassembling the glory of Whitestone, finding the structures that are broken or destroyed and trying to clean them, prepare for new building properties. You come by, eagerly lifting, carrying, dropping, slamming, and holding in place extremely heavy pieces of stone and masonry. In some cases, putting a few of the local strong men to shame and some of the local ladies, very blush-worthy in your presence. You are very happy. Go ahead and make three strength checks for me.
Travis: Oh shit, three of them. That's a 24.
Matt: Okay, second one?
Travis: That's a 22.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 22. 24, 22, 22.
Matt: Through the process of these two weeks, not only have you managed to surprise the local denizens of the city with your feats of strength and masculine physique-- as when Grog is building, Grog does so shirtless.
Travis: (laughs) As anything. Might as well get a show out of it.
Matt: In doing so, some of the local denizens pull some cash to the side to thank you for your efforts. You find at the end of the week you are granted a small pouch which contains 315 gold pieces as a thanks from the locals for all the help both in the rebellion, the freeing of Whitestone, and for your feats of magnificent musculature.
Travis: I don't feel like I should take this.
Laura: You should take it.
Travis: It's a lot of money.
Laura: You should take it.
Travis: How about you refill my cask of ale instead?
Sam: Ooh.
Liam: Happy Festivus.
Travis: And you give me one gold piece so Vex doesn't kill me.
Matt: The crowd look among themselves and one of the lead architects for this whole endeavor nods to you. "Sounds like a fair trade. If you're certain, sir."
Travis: I'm a very stringent businessman. Do hurry before I change my mind.
Matt: Gold piece is in your hand faster than you have a chance to-- you chip a tooth.
Travis: I don't understand this practice. It tastes like shit. Tastes fucking horrible.
Matt: Two casks of their precious ale roll up to the base of your foot.
Travis: (gasps) Two?!
Matt: Two.
Travis: One for each arm, eh? All right, the one that I have, I'm not stopping, until it's completely empty. Bring your goblets and cups. It's time to get fucked up.
Matt: (laughs) Fantastic. All right, Vex.
Laura: Well, I got the ring and the bracers that I need to get checked out, see what they are.
Matt: And the robe?
Liam: Oh, the robe. No, I threw it down, though.
Taliesin: You picked it up.
Liam: You picked it up.
Laura: I have the robe, too.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: We left her naked. Yes, we did.
Matt: You kind of did, actually.
Taliesin: Like properly.
Matt: A few things here, actually.
Travis: Oh Vex, I made gold.
Laura: Oh wow, thank you, that's amazing, Grog. Where did you find this piece of gold?
Travis: Oh, I got it for fixing a bunch of shit around town. Are you going to taste it?
Laura: No, I'm not. It's already got a lot of drool on it, actually.
Travis: But how do you know if it's gold if you don't taste it?
Laura: I'm just going to put it in with the rest of the gold, Grog.
Travis: Shit. I'm going to pull one over on her one of these days. Can you make things look like they're gold?
Sam: I can, actually.
Travis: You can?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: All right.
Travis: I've had my thought for the day, there's nothing else.
Sam: When you have the punchline, let me know.
Travis: It's a standby TV symbol right now. That's all I got.
Matt: So, as you take some time, first off, I want you to go ahead and roll an investigation check.
Laura: Aw man, I've got to roll for this? I'm going to roll one of my new dice. Well, it's for--
Matt: What was that sound?
Laura: It was exciting! 24.
Matt: 24, okay. So as you begin pulling out the items and begin separating, before you can even begin the initial inspection, as you are pulling the robe out, you find there is a slight poke. There's something thin--
Laura: (singing) Feel a little poke coming through.
Matt: Not that kind of poke. You unravel that part of the robe and find there's a long deep pocket on the inside of the robe. And inside, there's a long gnarled piece of deep maroon wood that is carved into a wand shape.
Sam: What kind of a wand?
Matt: I'm trying to find the actual item card here. Found it! There we go.
Sam: I want it.
Laura: Oh my god.
Sam: I want it.
Laura: Oh, did you find it? Did you find it in the group? Are you even standing near me right now, as I'm seeing this wand?
Sam: Of course I am. I'm always with you.
Laura: How do you know I'm not doing it in my room?
Sam: Are you?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: What's she wearing right now?
Sam: Why I am in your room?!
Laura: Scanlan, get out of here, I'm naked.
Sam: Oh I know, I came in here to tell you, to ask you something: where's my wand? (laughter)
Laura: Ugh, I've got to look at this a bit more before I give this to you because it is very, very good. It is a Wand of Fireballs, by the way, people. It has seven charges; while holding it, you can use an action to expend one or more of its charges to cast the Fireball spell, DC of 15, one charge you cast at third level-- so many words. I don't even understand.
Liam: A fan art of this moment, please?
Laura: But also--
Matt: You recall, actually, as you went over the top at the initial battle with Lady Briarwood, that was what she pulled out and managed to blast all of you with at once when you all were on the top of the temple.
Laura: Nice. I'm just going to put this in my pocket.
Liam: I thought you were naked.
Laura: I'll put it in the pocket of the outfit I'm about to put on. And then the ring and the bracers?
Matt: I'll get those right now. There you go.
Laura: Wait, Grog, don't sit down.
Taliesin: This is why it's Christmas.
Sam: Where's my ring?
Marisha: What's the ring do?
Laura: Oh my god. I found so many amazing things, you guys.
Travis: Those are bracers--
Laura: No!
Sam: Those are mine. I found them.
Travis: Grog will believe whatever you say.
Laura: No! I'm reading them all; they're mine! Ring of Lightning Resistance. Who wants a Ring of Lightning Resistance?
Sam: Sure.
Laura: Bracers of Defense. Who needs extra defense? You're really weak. Your AC's super low, isn't it?
Liam: It is.
Matt: Bracers of Defense will technically only really benefit anybody who's not wearing armor.
Liam: Not wearing armor?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: Like Grog?
Matt: Like monks.
Laura: There you go.
Liam: Thank goodness, because he is a blushing flower in the wind.
Matt: If you currently have-- is it an amulet that helps your armor? We'll go through your AC and find out if it overlaps with any other benefits.
Travis: I do have the Amulet of Armor.
Matt: Right, so basically that would replace that and you would now have an amulet slot open for any sort of future enchantment stuff.
Liam: I'll take the amulet.
Matt: You could give the amulet to somebody else if you want to.
Liam: He'll never give it to me.
Marisha: He was willing to do it until you gave him the idea to not do it.
Liam: That's fine.
Travis: Can't remind me of these things.
Laura: Okay, a Robe of Shielding Shadows. Can it be worn with armor?
Matt: No.
Laura: Oh man. It's just a robe. It's her dress, basically, and it gives you resistance to piercing damage.
Liam: You know what we can do with that? Sell it.
Sam: Or give it to me.
Laura: You have armor, dude.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Marisha: It takes an armor slot.
Laura: And it's a woman's robe.
Sam: I can make that work.
Laura: Yeah, you totally could.
Marisha: Can we take the fabric and sew it into a nice afghan or something?
Matt: You can certainly try. It would probably ruin the enchantment.
Laura: Oh, it would ruin the enchantment? If you sew it differently?
Marisha: What if you don't cut into it?
Laura: What if we fold it?
Taliesin: What if we just tie the dress around our neck?
Laura: Maybe just put your arms through it and then let it ride behind you like a cape?
Marisha: Right, it's like one of those "wear nine different ways" dresses?
Matt: You can wear it however you want and you will discover one way or another if it actually gives an effect.
Laura: Well, I'm just going to pocket this because we may sell it, how about that. And then, a Ring of Lightning Resistance, anybody want it? How many rings can we wear at one time?
Matt: Two. One on each hand.
Taliesin: I would not say no to a Ring of Lightning Resistance.
Laura: Pass that over to Percy.
Taliesin: I've got plans. At the moment, it's the only way to charge my glove.
Laura: All right, and this Wand of Fireballs? I feel like Scanlan needs it more than anyone else.
Sam: I already have a wand that shoots things.
Liam: You're the only one who can use it.
Sam: Oh, I'm the only one who can use it? I'll take it, then.
Laura: I might just sell this robe, though.
Travis: I know how you work it, it's swish and flick. Fireball.
Laura: Swish and flick.
Matt: What could possibly go wrong?
Travis: What if a non-spellcaster uses a wand? Nothing, right?
Laura: No. Anyone can use it.
Travis: Should we try it?
Liam: Yes, you should try it.
Travis: I am a walking crash test dummy. I mean, we can try it. It'll be fine.
Matt: That's my favorite mindset.
Laura: And then I'm going to mostly for the rest of the time, keep to myself and Trinket and I'm going to help the townspeople rebuild a bit.
Matt: All right. Wondrous. Vax?
Liam: I am also going to keep to myself and I'm going to talk to the people in town, see what businesses are open or trying to open, see what they need. And I would like to talk to Percy, since I don't know anyone here, about who I could talk to about getting messages to Emon, and I would like to get a message to Gilmore, to see if he can fill any need here. If trade is so ruined here, that Gilmore could be a help. And Gilmore gets another front, a place to do business and actually do good in a place that needs it.
Marisha: Gilmore's Glorious Books.
Sam: That's right.
Laura: I like it.
Matt: Over bits of a period of discussion, for the most part, any sort of non-official courier service has been negated in the town. However, there is now a glut of people that are, after the devastation, especially the ensuing rebellion, folks that need work and need coin and there are many individuals that would be more than willing to, for a handful of gold coins, make the journey to Emon delivering any messages you like.
Liam: Well, I will write a message to Gilly and say that they're hurting here. They need trade, all the supplies that he's able to supply and tell him that this town is about to explode and is definitely a good place for his wares.
Laura: Are you going to break up with him in the letter too? Are you going to tell him that you're going to break his heart as soon as he writes you back? Is that what's going to happen? I'm sorry, I'm just looking at your letter as you're writing it.
Liam: No, because I've been avoiding her as well. I'm avoiding everybody except for Percival, who I've been asking advice from.
Matt: Okay. Do you also have the cloak? Did you take the cloak?
Liam: I have the cloak, yeah. Yeah, dibs on that.
Matt: Fine pickings off the corpses of the two major villains of the previous arc.
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: More corpse picking to do.
Matt: Exactly.
Laura: What?! You have so many cloaks, though. Why do you need another one?
Sam: He's opening a cloak factory.
Taliesin: Gilmore's Glorious Cloaks.
Matt: Cloak hoarding over here. All right, Scanlan.
Sam: I wanted to do four things.
Travis: Yeah!
Sam: One, compose an epic poem to commemorate the rebels rising up against the empire that had kept them down for so long. Sort of a force that had awakened. I call it... Resident Evil. I don't know why. Because they're residents and there was evil. I couldn't come up with another name for it. They're residents of the town and there was an evil. That's all. So, I'm looking for a publisher.
Matt: Okay, good. There may be a grand opportunity at the Winter's Crest festival to perform this.
Sam: Oh-- gulp.
Liam: Disney and Capcom will be calling.
Sam: I also wanted to make sure that we were using the treasury, coordinating with Percy to open a library for the people to help them rebuild their place, which sounds like Vax is already on. I also commissioned a portrait of myself. I don't know if you-- I found a young artisan in town that I paid him some coin to paint me something that could possibly hang in the keep, at Greyskull, in the dining room.
Matt: Okay. After asking around for a few days, you manage to discover there is a budding local artist who doesn't really believe in his artwork. He currently works in the stables on the far southwest side of town. But people have seen some of his work and tried to bolster him, so you're sent in his direction and as you get there, you can see him. He's currently in the process of actually cutting through one of his recent works he wasn't happy with and he's violently tearing through it. As you step into the stable, he stops and puts it off to the side. "Sorry, sir, can I help you?"
Sam: Ah, hello. My name is Scanlan Shorthalt. I was the leader of the rebellion that just defeated Lord and Lady Briarwood.
Matt: "Oh! The pleasure is mine." He is now averting his gaze and almost bowing his head like you're royalty. He's very flustered and flushed by the sudden appearance.
Sam: I hear you are a budding artist and I am, if nothing else, a supporter of the arts.
Matt: "My talents are far unrefined and nowhere near powerful or decent enough for your attentions."
Sam: Well, I believe in you. And I need you for a very important commission. A great good has been done here by the rebels, by the townspeople, with the help of Vox Machina and of course, with the help of Vox Machina's leader, myself. Therefore, I'm here to commission a humble portrait of myself. You may not know him, but there was a folk hero in my town growing up. His name was Fabio. He would frequently pose with windblown hair and an open shirt on a horse. I was thinking something like that, and also I have this figure of Pike. She's a friend of mine. I'd like her on the back of the horse, arms around my waist, looking super hot. If that's possible.
Matt: Make a persuasion check. Only because he's so down on his own skills.
Sam: 33. (laughter)
Matt: As you're telling this tale, he goes from bashful and meek to staring off in the distance, the artistic inspiration rolling through his head.
Sam: Oh. Sorry, 31. I was wrong.
Matt: Unchanged. He begins finishing your sentences as you're describing scenery and extrapolating on it. You can see the artistic mind is definitely spinning. He looks to you and goes, "It would be my honor. Please." He reaches forward and takes your gnomish hand and you know, you're about two and a half feet shorter than him, but he's still very humble, kneels down and says, "I would be honored to do this portrait. No charge."
Sam: Please, I insist. I must give you something for your troubles.
Matt: "Whatever you deem fit, Sir Gnome, but I--"
Sam: What's your name, young sir?
Matt: "Jameson."
Sam: Jameson?
Liam: I like him.
Sam: I like this guy.
Travis: I think everybody does-- until they don't.
Sam: How about in return, I will sing your praises far and wide as the greatest artist in-- where are we? Whitestone. Whiteheart. Briarstone. Heartwood.
Matt: In making that mention, his openness suddenly closes off and he withdraws. You see this fear in his eyes and he shakes his head. "That would be untrue and I am but a simple stablehand. I can do this for you, but please, if you could keep this between us."
Sam: All right. I'm aware that some people like to be discreet about things and that's all right with me, too. Then I'll pay you the going rate for portraits of me.
Matt: "Certainly. How large would you like it?"
Sam: How big is the wall at Greystone Keep?
Matt: Depends on which area.
Sam: The dining room wall.
Travis: (laughing) That's like Sistine Chapel!
Matt: Your dining area's probably about 12 to 15 feet high.
Sam: High? Okay, and wide?
Matt: Wide? I'd say, off the top of my head, somewhere between 40 and 50 feet.
Sam: Well, I'd like to leave room for other artwork, as well. We'll say 20 by six.
Travis: (laughing) 20 by six?
Marisha: (laughing) 20 by six?
Sam: Well, it's half and half. 20 wide, six high.
Matt: His eyes go wide and he nods and says, "This is a challenge. But I believe I do know someone whom I can order such a grand canvas from. This can be done. This can be done." And you see he smiles and takes your hand once again. "This can be done."
Sam: Thank you, sir. Jameson, was it?
Matt: "Jameson, yes."
Sam: You have done a noble deed for your people and for the rebel forces.
Matt: "Eclipsed by the deeds you have done, Sir Gnome."
Sam: Oh, that is true. (laughter)
Matt: He rushes off to prepare himself.
Sam: And then, one last thing. On a serious note, I do some research to see if me, or any one of my party could, over time and with great effort, learn the skills required to utilize a teleportation circle.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make an arcana check.
Sam: Not great. Arcana? 11.
Matt: Yeah. What little you know of teleportation-based magics, which is not your forte in your bardic experiences, but what you've heard and what you've seen, while you've traveled with Tiberius, and you've come across other individuals that used the arcane spells that caused transport, teleportation circles themselves are a very specific ritual. It's a spell that comes from within the arcane caster's capabilities. If you yourself do not have that, you're not going to be able to utilize it at a drop of a hat. After asking around, you find there once was a teleportation destination circle in Castle Whitestone that was part of the network of Tal'Dorei, in Emon, but has since been destroyed and sundered and has been for quite some time. You imagine probably when the Briarwoods came, it was deemed a dangerous little loose thread. So, over the period of the next week or so, best you can ascertain is that type of transportation here is going to be probably not likely, at least not with the resources you have at your disposal. You may have to travel elsewhere.
Sam: It's not a skill I can learn?
Matt: It's a spell you could learn, but that would be something you would have to swap out as you level up or choose as your spell progression down the road.
Sam: All right.
Liam: I find it's better to travel the world rather than use fast travel.
Laura: I agree. You see so much more of it.
Liam: You miss everything.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: All the artistic--
Liam: Every nook and cranny, yeah.
Matt: But you do, as part of your group's discussions throughout the week, discover that Keyleth does have long-transport capabilities.
Sam: Ooh, hello Keyleth. Fly the friendly skies.
Matt: You want to explain what you can do?
Marisha: I have Teleport via Plants. So I can bamf through the Sun Tree. We can all--
Sam: We can all?
Marisha: We can all.
Liam: You mean like a big plant?
Matt: It opens for six seconds, a portal--
Marisha: For one round, I can be like, this tree is a portal and we walk through the tree and it goes to another tree as long as I know of that tree's existence.
Laura: And it's the same size, right? It has to be something of the same size? Or it can be any tree?
Marisha: It has to be walkable body-size.
Matt: A large or larger tree as far as this size.
Laura: Trinket and Grog-sized trees.
Sam: That sounds like it would be the quickest "root" to go.
Taliesin: (groans)
Liam: Is there a tree in your garden back at Greyskull?
Marisha: There is. I made sure there was a nice--
Laura: Big old fatty tree.
Marisha: Big old fatty oak tree.
Matt: There's actually two large trees, I believe, in the Sarenrae temple.
Laura: I forgot to say what else I wanted to do.
Matt: What else do you want to do?
Laura: Well, because of that flying potion, I wanted to try to do some research and see how much flying potions are, if there's any kind of items that can make you fly whenever you want?
Travis: She liked it.
Laura: I really liked it.
Matt: (laughs) The first taste is free.
Laura: I know. I mean, I know the carpet's gone, but maybe there's like an individual sort of item that's less expensive than a flying carpet, I don't know. Just wondering.
Matt: You still have the flying potion--
Laura: I downed it!
Matt: Right, the card I gave you for it. Because that would contain the cost of that particular one.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: 5,250.
Liam: You have a robe.
Laura: Well, but I want a bunch of them, though.
Matt: Which you can have made or possibly look about to have purchased. This town is pretty thin as far as--
Laura: Magic stuff?
Matt: Yeah. Most of anything of worth, of an arcane nature was confiscated and utilized or essentially melted down for its residuum components as part of the creation of the ziggurat, in preparation for their ritual. So, other than the items you were given when you first arrived here, you're hard-pressed to find anything in this town of that type. But asking around, there are enchantments that can gift flight, but they're pretty rare.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: Talk to Gilmore.
Matt: Gilmore would be the person to talk to about that. You good, Scanlan?
Sam: Oh, I'm good.
Matt: All right. Keyleth?
Marisha: Well, Keyleth is very confused as to why everyone seems to be avoiding each other. It's odd. Everyone's so standoffish. Anyway, Keyleth is going to go help the farmers and try and maybe help revitalize some of the land and help with planting crops, and helping out there. She also wants to make sure all the local kids are taken care of. Any kids that lost their parents in the rebellion. Lead the charge of making sure the kids are taken care of.
Matt: Okay. Going around, there were a number of casualties in the town as part of the rebellion. It unfortunately happens in warfare, regardless of how noble a cause it may be. There are a few families that were left fatherless or motherless, as there was quite a share of the sexes raising up for this battle. So the children that-- no one that you know of lost both parents, for the most part. There was the intent that if there were a parental unit, that at least one had to stay in case of such an occurrence to raise the children. But you go out and meet with some of the families and make sure they're taken care of. Some of the homes that were destroyed as part of the rebellion, you and Grog both worked together to help make sure the process of rebuilding goes well. You do also help the farmers begin to right their crops and revitalize the land, which had been drained by the necromantic essence of the Briarwoods' presence, and whatever the ziggurat was pulling from the land itself beneath seems to have released its hold on the immediate vicinity. So, through your aid specifically, being a druid of your nature, you prepare this for probably one of the finest harvests that Whitestone has had in quite a long time. Even though it is deep winter, they're already seeing early spring growth through your aid.
Marisha: Dope. Climate change.
Matt: I know, it's crazy. Vegetation and vegetables that are withstanding and still able to grow through the frost in the mornings, as the cold weather is coming from the winter, so you're raising quite a strong crop. Well done.
Marisha: We'll have Thanksgiving in about nine months.
Matt: (laughs) There you go.
Taliesin: For the orphans, man.
Marisha: For the orphans.
Matt: Percival?
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to spend most of my time organizing the affairs of the castle and the local government and making sure that there's institutions in place, getting rid of anybody who might still have sympathies towards the Briarwoods. Helping re-establish the Zenith and the Ladies' Chamber. Spending some time with my sister.
Matt: On that note, before you continue, there is no current institution in place. Anyone of any political power outside of Archibald, you, and Cassandra, has been slaughtered long past. So in these discussions, you talk with Keeper Yennen, you talk to Cassandra, and there is an air of understanding that right now, there is this period of peace, this period of calm, but there has to eventually be an establishment put into place: some sort of political head to oversee the rebuilding of the city and the continued growth and survival of this town proper. Cassandra confides in you multiple times that she is nervous, that she, especially given recent circumstances, her recovery of her Stockholm syndrome with the Briarwoods, is not confident that she would be able to lead on her own. There is a moment where she apologizes extensively to Archibald. Archibald, who did survive, and was her direct contact in the castle, takes a few days before he will even face Cassandra when he is told that she essentially had been leading him astray and spearheading the death of the previous rebellion. You also discover the reason the various new nobles that were prepared for your ambushes were because Cassandra had gotten information about that from Archibald and then fed it to the Briarwoods. But you do sense a very, very deep-seated regret and an urge to make amends for that from her. And because of that circumstance, she doesn't feel like the people of Whitestone, who would have this information, which you haven't told anyone. There is no large-scale announcement. The only people that know about Cassandra's current situation with the Briarwoods are you guys, Keeper Yennen, and Archibald.
Sam: Archibald's still around?
Matt: He is.
Sam: And he betrayed us?
Laura: No.
Marisha: No.
Laura: Cassandra betrayed him.
Liam: Cassandra played everybody.
Sam: Oh. All right, I'll let him live.
Laura: Thank you, glorious leader. Thank you.
Sam: Just part of the team, guys.
Matt: So that is an ongoing discussion. As far as establishing the structure, there's been many talks, but nothing has been fine-tuned, and that may play itself out as part of the festival.
Taliesin: I have two items that I would like to look at. Well, I have three items that I would like to look at. Sylas's sword and his amulet.
Matt: Okay. The brooch that he left behind.
Taliesin: Brooch!
Matt: Travis has got you.
Taliesin: Really, Travis?
Laura: He's our runner.
Liam: Oh, ho ho ho, and all of that!
Laura: What is it?
Marisha: What is it, what is it?
Taliesin: Damn.
Laura: Is it amazing?
Liam: He's standing there like Guile before a Street Fighter match.
Matt: He hasn't heard of that character.
Laura: (laughs) What is it? What do you have?
Taliesin: I don't know, it's a piece of paper. It's pretty cool. It's called a Brooch of Living Essence and it basically masks the wearer's alignment, essence, whether they're good or evil, they can't be seen by Detect Magic spells.
Liam: That is the worst thing for you.
Laura: Not anymore!
Taliesin: Is it?
Liam: I'm unsure. It's hard to tell.
Matt: You gather that this item in particular was used by Sylas to travel through magically protected areas without giving up his undead essence or being read for his true intentions.
Marisha: It's for a shifty bastard. It's definitely a shifty bastard thing.
Laura: It's for Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, me? My alignment's good.
Marisha: Yeah, but it could be good if you want to pretend to be evil.
Taliesin: Either this or Vax. This would be an interesting thing for either--
Marisha: It doesn't protect you against Detect Magic spells. It protects you against Detect Good or Evil spells and magic spells that reveal your true nature.
Sam: True nature.
Liam: It would be a good thing.
Laura: So you could pretend to be bad.
Taliesin: What do you have in your-- brooch?
Liam: My brooch?
Matt: It's in the neck slot.
Liam: Nothing.
Taliesin: Nothing in your neck slot?
Laura: That sounds so disgusting.
Liam: My neck slot (laughs). I don't know, Percy. What have I got in my neck slot?
Matt: You see the brooch slowly press deep in his neck slot (laughs). God. Ugh. Don't turn that into any fan fiction, please.
Taliesin: Don't say that!
Matt: I know. Percy, what else?
Taliesin: The sword.
Matt: The sword.
Sam: That is a big piece of paper.
Liam: That's a rather big piece of paper for a sword.
Taliesin: And Ripley's gun.
Matt: Well, first, as you take the sword in your hands, the large, thick obsidian, onyx black blade. You take a while to, not necessarily attune to it, but put enough of your attention towards it where you sense its magical capabilities. As it begins to clarify, where one voice before was not there, a new voice speaks and says--
Marisha: Wait!
Liam: (shushing noises) This is important.
Taliesin: Goddamn it.
Matt: "You, are you my new wielder?"
Laura: What?
Sam: He's got a talking sword!
Marisha: What's with you and fucking weapons, man?
Taliesin: (whimpers)
Laura: Be strong, Percy!
Liam: You're not here.
Taliesin: No. (laughter)
Matt: "Then leave me until one worthy lifts this blade."
Taliesin: I'm going to gently put it down.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: This is a sword that has a name!
Taliesin: I don't know what to do about this (laughs). This is really disturbing.
Matt: As you step away from the blade, you can feel the air nearby is generally colder in its presence, and where previously it was just a weapon, you can almost feel like there's something looking at you. There's a presence just bent towards you, expectantly.
Laura: That's creepy!
Taliesin: (whimpers)
Sam: Just try it out! What could go wrong?
Liam: Do you want to become evil, Grog?
Travis: I can tame it.
Taliesin: (laughs) Wow--
Liam: Don't do it, Percy.
Travis: What does it say?
Laura: What does it say?
Sam: What does it say?
Taliesin: I don't think I should tell any of you.
Matt: The blade sits there on the ground where you leave it, whatever you wish to do with it.
Travis: Do you want to put it in the Bag?
Taliesin: God, you've given me so much to think about. It's really unfortunate. I'm definitely going to take at least a week of our two weeks to think about the sword.
Matt: Okay. What are you going to do with it in the meantime?
Liam: Sleep on top of it.
Taliesin: Sleep on top of it. It's in my room.
Travis: You don't want it in the Bag?
Taliesin: No.
Matt: So, for each evening as you lay down to sleep, you can feel a voice creep back in to say-- The voice is inquisitive. "I'm useless left here. I seek the thrill of battle. I'm hungry." Other evenings, it comes to you, almost pleading. "Why have you forsaken me? You took me as a trophy. What purpose has a blade that goes unused? I will remember this." Then it falls silent after a few days.
Travis: The silent treatment.
Laura: It's sulking.
Taliesin: Is it a two-handed sword or a one-handed sword?
Matt: It's a greatsword. It's two-handed, big old Final Fantasy 7 sword.
Taliesin: Goddamn it.
Sam: Evil Grog is not a good idea.
Marisha: This is the thing that's fucked up.
Taliesin: Yeah, I know, which is why I shouldn't have given him that brooch. Goddamn it. I may ask for that brooch back.
Liam: You can certainly try.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Travis: (laughs) Whoa.
Matt: So, as you think on it, the weeks pass--
Taliesin: No, I had a--
Matt: Oh, what did you guys want to do?
Taliesin: I also wanted to work on Ripley's gun.
Matt: Right. The gun itself is essentially a baseline pistol. If you look in your archetype for your fighter class of gunslinger, the pistol mechanics all apply to that weapon. Beyond that, nothing in particular. It's just her first successful attempt in recreating a firearm.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to start making some ammo for it. And I'm going to work on it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Percy, whenever you get a chance, could you, maybe-- how hard are those exploding arrows to make? Super-duper hard?
Taliesin: Not terribly difficult. I don't think it's in two weeks, but when we go home, I'll work on it. I know, I like them too... I hate you. You're a terrible person.
Matt: You picked up the sword, man.
Travis: Percy, how's that sword working out?
Taliesin: It's a little big, actually.
Travis: Is it? Look, I have this one-handed Dragonslayer Longsword if you want to get used to a bit of badassery before you move up to the big leagues. I know you've got that dinky piece of shit you've been using this whole time.
Matt: Just as a note, too, a greatsword is a strength-based melee weapon. Dex does not play into it.
Taliesin: Oh, which is-- well, yeah.
Matt: Based on whatever your strength is. What's your strength, Percy?
Taliesin: Strength is 12.
Matt: You would probably not do very well with that.
Taliesin: Which is why I was thinking about having it cut down and melted down into something more useful.
Matt: This is also viable, if you wanted to try.
Travis: (whispering) Dragon-slayer Longsword.
Taliesin: You know, this is actually pretty badass if I did give it to Grog. Yeah.
Travis: Trade!
Marisha: Jesus Christ! And he's not even going to say anything about it. You're a terrible person, not Matt, you are. He gave you the device and you used it!
Liam: You've been playing D&D for years. You know what this means!
Taliesin: I'm going to let you know we should keep an eye on him, just in case.
Matt: So, Grog. As you take up the blade in your hands, you hear coming out of the ether, a gentle, low velvet voice caresses the inside of your head saying, "You, are you to be my wielder?"
Travis: What the shit?
Matt: "Speak your name, warrior."
Travis: Grog.
Matt: "Warrior Grog, have you taken up the blade of Craven Edge?"
Travis: Is that what this is? Do you have a female setting? (laughter)
Matt: You hear a long, drawn-out sigh. "Do you accept my power?"
Travis: There's a power that comes with you? What kind of power?
Matt: "Do you enjoy drinking the strength of your foes, watching them beaten before you, and have that very power become your own?"
Travis: Sounds pretty good.
Matt: "Do you wish the shadows to encase your form and grant you resilience and anger, forcing those to kneel before you in fear."
Travis: The shadows?
Matt: "Do you accept, Grog?"
Travis: Fuck yeah. (laughter)
Matt: "Then it is done. Together, we will accomplish great things."
Travis: Do you have a name? Do I call upon you? Can I call you Bacon?
Matt: "You call me Bacon and this blade will cut the very hand you hold. My name is Craven Edge. It will do you well to remember that."
Travis: Right. Yep. Was totally kidding about the bacon, Craven Edge. Well, I'm excited about this partnership. Clearly we will be a force to be reckoned with. By the way, can other people hear you?
Matt: Silence.
Travis: Shit.
Liam: He will kill me first.
Taliesin: It is an amazing sword.
Travis: I haven't even read it yet.
Taliesin: You haven't read it yet?
Travis: No. I can't read! (laughter)
Laura: I want to read it so bad!
Liam: Don't let anybody read it.
Taliesin: It's so magical.
Travis: Give me a bear cookie.
Matt: You have a clue as to what it can do based on when it was used against you by Sylas.
Travis: Yeah, it was badass. Thank you.
Matt: So, anything else you want to accomplish before we close out on the rest of the week?
Sam: I had a question.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Did we assemble a team of magic--
Laura: To take care of the thingy?
Marisha: Yeah, that we needed to-- we all need to take care of that.
Laura: The marble of death?
Matt: So, throughout the week, Keeper Yennen, a few of the low-level arcanists that exist here--
Laura: Didn't we send for Eskil Ryndarien?
Matt: You sent for him, but you know information right now travels at the speed of whatever it is you--
Marisha: By mule?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: At speed of mule.
Matt: The speed of that as it continues forward. You get word back. Nothing from Allura Vysoren yet. Eskil does respond, saying he is currently finishing up some personal business, but will make his way towards Whitestone within a couple weeks, with some of his compatriots who may also be of aid. Information has been gotten across, but it won't be until probably after this festival for them to begin their investigation. However, in the meantime, Keeper Yennen and a few of the smaller local arcanists do make a couple trips down to inspect the ziggurat themselves. When they return, Yennen is at a loss. Most of them don't quite understand the nature of the magic there. It seems to be immobile. It seems to be completely either negating, consuming, or preventing any sort of magical force within a specific radius of it. A lot of their normal arcane methods of inspecting or divine methods of inspecting this site are not functional. This is more like bring old tomes and research historical records of things that may be similar to this. So when you bring up that you had reached out to Eskil Ryndarien with the information you had, you gather that will probably be a much more fruitful endeavor. As of right now, no one has any clue what this is.
Laura: And we searched the Briarwoods' library that they had gathered together that say anything about--
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Some of the information you acquired from Scanlan's memory and a little bit of research into Vecna. Very little information really exists, but as the keeper of secrets, you get the sense that most anything of importance in dealing with this ritual has been destroyed as part of its preparation because secrets are meant to be kept and hoarded. So not much luck in that regard, unfortunately. However, as the second week draws to a close, the Winter's Crest day comes forward. As the morning crests into the proper Winter's Crest festival, you all awaken in Castle Whitestone to an unusually cold morning. As you look out, there is a fresh dusting of white snow that has gently caressed the entirety of this valley and the entire city itself. You all get yourselves ready, gather your belongings and preparing for the festival you've been helping get ready this entire week, you walk down towards Whitestone itself. As you get to the outskirts of the city, you can already hear in the distance music beginning to play. Blue and white ribbons are hung up all throughout the town, on the outside of buildings, outside of taverns, outside of even the remaining wreckage that is only partially built. It seems that overnight, people just went through the town and decorated whatever needed to be decorated to wipe clean the memory of the recent trials and difficulty that everyone's undergone. You begin to make your way towards the center of the town, to the town square where the Sun Tree is, and as you approach, you now see the source of the music, as a number of individuals in the town have brought out their instruments. They're playing, some more discordant than others, but overall, a sense of joy as people for the first time in a long time are truly embracing this positive atmosphere. You see children laughing and running through the streets. You can smell fresh-cooked pies and various bakery items just filling the air around you. Looking over, as you approach the Sun Tree, you can see where once bodies hung from its boughs, there now are strings of blue and white ribbons that are intertwined with each other, braided and set across from branch to branch. You can see fine little glass structures that have been hand blown and left to drape from them to be part of the festivities. As you begin to make your way up there, immediately people begin to notice your presence, and you can see people in the streets begin to gather up and begin cheering. You hear voices mutter out, "Vox Machina!" People start reaching out and shaking your hands. "Thank you so much, thank you." You're taken aback by the attention. It's reminding you a little bit of the awkwardness you had with the last Winter's Crest in Emon.
Laura: Be on the lookout for eggs, giant frosty-looking eggs.
Matt: You make your way towards the Sun Tree and there you see Keeper Yennen is in the process of speaking with a few of the people that helped him with this entire rebellion, in setting up this event, and he greets you all as you approach. "Oh, my friends! How wondrous. Glad to see you are all wakened and ready and well rested, I assume."
Travis: Yes.
Matt: "Glorious. Well, this is a day of celebration. We've taken the time and mourning shall continue as needed, but today, today is to embrace what it means to be alive, to thwart the darkness and the evils that press upon the free folk of these lands. And of course, to eat and drink until you are full and drunk." (laughter)
Marisha: Cheers to that.
Matt: "It will be a little bit before we get to the actual celebration speech, but in the meantime, go free yourselves, drink, be merry. There are a few events going on around you." And he points in a few directions, and you can see around you there are tables set up, there are individuals playing games. Immediately to the left, you can see there are two long tables set up and a stack of pies off to one side, looks like an eating contest.
Travis: I haven't eaten for a full day.
Marisha: In preparation?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: You do see what looks to be a gentleman with a high box, with a very, very fine waxed mustache that is currently doing parlor tricks and magical presentations for people who are trading coin to be astounded with his illusions. You can see what looks to be a series of tables behind the Sun Tree heading towards the southeast side of it. You recognize better than anyone: these are central tables, relatively small, with a chair on each side.
Travis: Arm wrestling! (laughter)
Travis: Craven, I think-- oh wait, that's arm wrestling. Go to sleep.
Matt: The sigh is getting more and more impatient.
Travis: He'll get used to that.
Matt: So these are the three first events you come across in your immediate vicinity. What would any of you guys like to partake in?
Marisha: I see the magic tricks and go (loud gasp) and run over, without saying anything.
Sam: I tag along.
Taliesin: Oh, I'll go in for this one as well.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: As you guys rush forward, you come to the box. It's a relatively high box. It looks like it hasn't seen some use in a while. The gentleman sitting there, with longish hair, parted in the center, and combs outward. He's got a waxed mustache. He's wearing dusty presentational robes and he has on the top of it a series of small boxes and what looks like various tricks he has at the ready. There are three children off to the side with either their keeper or parents behind. "Now watch, if you will, as this simple ball transports itself between the cups and yet find your eyes unable to follow." And he switches the cups around for a moment. (whoosh) (laughter)
Matt: "Where is the ball, little one?" The kids deliberate and one goes, "That one!" "Are you sure?" They all shake their head. "Oh! I'm sorry, the ball has escaped your vision once again." And they all they cheer. He lifts the other one.
Marisha: (gasps), are you a wizard? We've met a few wizards. No, are you a sorcerer? Because you don't look like a druid. This doesn't look like natural magic. What?
Matt: "I am what you refer to as an illusionist. And I can play tricks on your mind, your mind, your mind..."
Marisha: (shouting) No! God, we've been through way too much of that here lately.
Sam: It's entertainment.
Matt: "Playful! Playful illusions, not against..."
Sam: It's just a game.
Taliesin: Carry on. It's good. She's good.
Matt: "Keep her in check, please. You're scaring the children."
Sam: It's not real. It's a game. It's going to be fine.
Marisha: (whispers) Okay. I don't trust this guy.
Sam: Don't worry. Why don't you have Percival take the first turn?
Matt: "I'm also a diviner. I can look into your eyes and see your very future."
Taliesin: Not really. It's okay.
Matt: "For a simple gold piece, you can test your skills against the transference of this ethereal ball. Or for five, I can look into your fate."
Marisha: (starts hyperventilating)
Taliesin: I'll do both, actually.
Matt: "Ha ha. All right." Takes the gold piece.
Marisha: I grab him by the scruff and I say, if you hurt him... You don't know what he's been through, okay?
Matt: "It's fine. It's all right."
Marisha: Are you working with the Briarwoods? Did the Briarwoods send you?!
Matt: "Can you please get her off of me?"
Sam: Hey, kids, this is why you shouldn't drink during the daytime.
Matt: "Anyway."
Marisha: Do your magic.
Matt: "So, sir." Takes one gold piece off, sets it aside. "Now, the ethereal ball. This was taken from the Far Realms themselves, crafted in the ivy-covered hills in the far North End, the Feywild itself. How could you follow this, with but your simple vision?" He places one cup over it, two cups to the side and begins shifting and shifting. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Marisha: Oh, him? Okay.
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: You see now, there's a couple moments where the ball shifts between cups and you get a really close idea of exactly how this works. And when he finishes, he looks to you. "Now, where is the fey ball?"
Taliesin: I would say it's to your right, right there.
Matt: "That one?" (laughter)
Matt: "Are you sure? It could be anywhere on this table."
Taliesin: It could, but it's there. Because it's not anywhere else other than there.
Sam: I'm not so sure about that, Percy.
Taliesin: Well, you're welcome to go in, if you like.
Sam: I choose the one on the left.
Taliesin: You'll have to give him a gold coin, though.
Sam: Sure. (ding)
Matt: He takes the gold coin. "Do you wish to choose for this one instead, then?"
Taliesin: No, I'm choosing on the right.
Matt: Takes the gold piece. "And with that-- You found it, yay." (laughter)
Matt: He gives you five gold.
Marisha: I lean into Percy and I say  this guy's not a threat. He's okay.
Taliesin: Well, I am a dark evil demonic creature.
Matt: As he gives you the five gold, he immediately takes it back. "But you wanted to know your fate."
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "Step forward, young-- what's your name?"
Taliesin: Just Percy.
Matt: "Percy. Please, present your face." As he reaches out, he begins to feel the bumps on your head. He begins to touch the outside of your face. He closes his eyes. "Yes, yes, I can see into the very nature of your existence. You, young-- Percy?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "Percy, Percy. Young Percy. You, you have hardworking hands, you've seen a lifetime of hard, hard work in the fields. But you wish to make your father proud, as does every son and you will-- as one day you will become... a well celebrated smith of horseshoes! Yes! Glory to Percy!"
Sam: Amazing! So accurate.
Taliesin: So accurate.
Matt: He leans in and says, "I could tell from the black powder on your hands that you've worked with a few pieces of iron in your time."
Taliesin: Very astute.
Matt: (chuckles) "Thank you so much. So, who's next?" The children start rushing up and-- you guys wish to continue with this guy?
Marisha: No. (laughter)
Sam: All right, we'll leave.
Marisha: I've seen enough.
Matt: Okay, who's doing what now?
Travis: Does anyone want to get down to the pie contest? I thought I might arm wrestle first.
Liam: I think you should arm wrestle.
Sam: Oh yeah, I want to see this.
Travis: I'd like to arm wrestle, in case I need to eat my way out of sadness with pies.
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: Turn your sadness into victory.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: I will also enter the arm wrestling competition.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: Okay, okay. So, as you guys step up, you can see there's a woman dressed in a rather simple barmaid outfit, leather apron on her side and she's pretty thick and rough-and-tumble with her timbre. She has her hair pulled up in a very tight bun in the back. She has a bit of a smudge on her chin. She says, "All who wish to enter the contest please step right here, pay your entry fee! Graciously prove your might and your strength. Show that you yourself are responsible for the rebellion succeeding." Sees you. "You! You wish to be part of this, yes!"
Travis: Yeah, I do!
Matt: "Very well, very well. Ah, entry fee--" She leans in and gets real for a second. "Entry fee is 25 gold pieces each. Winner gets free drinks and the pot."
Liam: I slap down 25 gold on behalf of Grog.
Travis: (excited gasp)
Sam: You're paying for his entry?
Liam: I'm paying for his entry, sure.
Sam: And mine, as well?
Liam: No.
Travis: Good man.
Sam: I would like to-- I would also like to compete.
Matt: (prolonged high-pitched giggle) "Sorry. 25 gold then."
Sam: Here you go.
Matt: "I mean no offense, I just-- it's a cute beret."
Taliesin: (laughs) Wow.
Matt: Other individuals come and enter and you can see as you guys are preparing for this event, you hear the rattling of chains nearby and you can see two guards stepping up with--
Laura: The other goliath!
Matt: Goran Vedmeyer, who you've seen--
Laura: The Duke!
Matt: Yeah, no longer Duke. Un-Duked.
Laura: Once you Duke something, you can't un-Duke it, Matt.
Matt: No, he's been thoroughly un-Duked, trust me.
Marisha: The Duke that was formerly known as--
Travis: Duke Gonad.
Matt: Yeah. He's brought by two of the guards and the guards whisper to each other. They bring out their own 25 gold pieces and they plop it into the pot. "He's entering as our proxy." He looks around. "Yes, what they said." She gives a nod. "Well, I don't see why not, I suppose. All right!" Other people end up gathering up their change and she goes over the sheet with one of her compatriots and they end up breaking off into teams. There are four tables set up and for this round, at least, this part of the festival, they break up in different parts. She calls out to one table. "All right, we have a Jasper Leer to go against a Scanlan Shorthalt at this table."
Sam: That's me!
Travis: Yay, Scanlan!
Marisha: Yes, Scanlan!
Matt: As you're getting ready, you see a farmer-type individual. Clean, as dressed as he could be in relatively ragged clothes, but he looks like he's trying to be presentory for the festival. Grey beard, longish shoulder-length tousled hair. He walks up, pulling his wrist back, and he's got some good muscles. Looks like he's definitely been working a lot of heavy farmwork for most of his life. He sits down at the table across from you, gives you a look over. "Well, shall we begin?"
Sam: Sure. Can I ever-so-covertly say to him, you don't want to beat a gnome. You don't want to beat a gnome. I'm casting Suggestion on him.
Matt: I will say, go ahead and make a sleight-of-hand check.
Sam: Oh, the worst. Shit. 13.
Laura: What does it mean? The eyebrows!
Travis: And the phone came out.
Sam: Who knows? We'll find out when my arm gets wrenched off.
Laura: Looking at Jasper's stats, I can tell.
Matt: No, what are you talking about?
Sam: He's checking Twitter.
Matt: Yeah, got to respond to a couple-- guys, give me a second. All right. So, he has his hand up, he looks you over with a look of intensity for a second. "Put your hand up."
Sam: Yes, sir.
Matt: He clasps his fingers entirely around your hand at this point. As the intensity mounts, the crowd gathers around, everyone begins cheering, the barmaid steps up again. "All right, two of you, hands together. And prove your strength... now!" Go ahead and make a strength check.
Sam: 19.
Marisha: (laughs) Oh shit.
Matt: You guys stand there for a second (groans) his arm begins to push on yours, begins to bend back a little bit, you reflex with might and begin to set him back up to the center. You've reached a standstill, once again, back at the center. His expression on his face looks frustrated and surprised.
Sam: You weren't expecting this, were you? (pants) Neither was I!
Matt: Make another strength check.
Sam: Not as good. 11.
Matt: 11. At this point, as you say that, he tenses and forces down your hand now, right at three-quarters to the table. Make another strength check.
Marisha: Come on, Scanlan!
Sam: 16!
Matt: 16. (groans) About to touch the knuckles--
Sam: What is going on? I had-- This has never happened before.
Matt: He's keeping his hand to his side, trying not to grasp the edge of the table, which is technically against the rules. He's looking around at everyone watching and realizes the sheer amount of attention that's put on the fact that this tiny little gnome is now keeping him at a standstill.
Liam: I shout out from the crowd, Scanlan! Pike is here! She's astral-projected in!
Sam: Natural one. (laughter)
Matt: With that moment of distraction, you look around and (wham) your arm hits the table. Cheers go on, everyone shouts happily.
Sam: You idiot!
Liam: All the blood rushed somewhere else, that's not my fault.
Sam: I had him! (groans)
Matt: He lifts up his tankard to the side, someone begins pouring ale into it. He shouts his victory out, everyone cheers. The barmaid pats you on your back. "You did good, you did good."
Sam: I don't need your pity! Grog, kick this motherfucker's ass!
Matt: Two more events go by, two more gentlemen have a showdown-- actually no, it's a woman and a man. The woman is a pretty tough-looking warrior, probably one of the guards of Castle Whitestone. She's still in partial armor, has been guarding the event, has taken her helmet off to be part of this event, taking a moment to relax. She goes up against another merchant of the town and just destroys him. The next bout is a man who, the way he's dressed, appears to be a blacksmith. He still has his leather gauntlets on, he takes them off at the table, takes off his leather apron and sets it to the side. Gets down and ready and looks around for his opponent and the two guards bring up the chained Vedmeyer, who then sits down at the table, the chains hitting against the sides of the wooden table top and coasting to the ground as they adjust. He puts his arm on the table with a thud, and has to bend over to even reach the other guy's grasp. You can see the look on his face immediately pale as he realizes who he's up against. It's two rounds and maybe 20 seconds tops before Vedmeyer slams him so hard you can part of the tabletop splinters inward and the guy brings his hand back with bleeding knuckles. He reaches over, puts his hand out expectantly. The barmaid hands him a tankard full of ale. He downs it in one gulp, slams it on on the table and stands back up again. He glances over at you and steps back into the crowd. The second round of the events go in. You are paired up with the gentleman who defeated Scanlan.
Marisha: Kick his ass, Grog!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Sam: Put him in a body bag!
Travis: I sit down and I say, I feel really bad for you mate. You know, my friend? He's got hand herpes... So do I.
Sam: It's true.
Matt: Make a deception roll.
Travis: 20! 19 plus one!
Matt: Natural one on his part. He looks genuinely frightened and is about to back up and get the attention of the barmaid who's running this event and he sees the crowd around.
Travis: I mean, you're a farmer, right? You handle food.
Matt: He spits in his hand, puts it out and grabs your hand. The barmaid once again. "And-- prove your strength!" Roll a strength check. He has disadvantage.
Travis: 21.
Matt: Natural one. He's already straining and the back of his knuckles are immediately up against the wood. You can see fear in his eyes and he's gripping, but he's also trying to move his fingers to make sure he doesn't make too much contact with your hand. Go ahead and roll another strength check.
Travis: 11.
Matt: At which point, he sees the grin on your face and gets his will back behind him and (grunts) forces you back to the center. Make another strength check.
Travis: Oh, shit. Seven.
Matt: Natural 20.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: He (groans) slams you right over on the edge of the table. Make another check.
Marisha: Come on, Grog!
Travis: 23.
Matt: 19. Back up to the center, at a standstill. You see now the veins bulging at his neck, you can see now, his face is turning red from the strain. He's breathing heavily (pants) as he pushes again. Make another strength check.
Laura: Come on, Grog!
Travis: Eight.
Matt: (chuckles) Eight. (groans) Keeping you right in the middle. Make another check.
Sam: I hold up my hand and I use Minor Illusion to make it all dotted with herpes.
Matt: He glances sidelong at your hand and (whimpers). I'm going to give him disadvantage on this one. All right, what did you get?
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17. (laughs) With a disadvantage, he got a six. (groans) The hand goes at three-quarters. He's now looking at you, looking at Scanlan's hand, looking at you, looking at his own hand, he's really worried. Make another strength check.
Travis: It's slippery when the pores start to seep. That's a one.
Sam: No!
Taliesin: No!
Matt: With a disadvantage, he gets a two. You guys are at the middle again.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: Big struggle.
Travis: 22.
Matt: With disadvantage again, because of that-- though disadvantage is fading at this point. He got a 12. So yeah (groans), now he's back down.
Laura: Come on Grog, finish it!
Travis: 22.
Matt: He got a seven. He looks at you, looks at the hand, looks at you again and you can see in his face, the sudden look of acceptance as you stop playing with him and (whack) slam it really hard on the wood. You can see, he pulls away... (gasps) "Wash it! Wash it, please! Wash it, somebody wash it!"
Travis: You know, the cure for that is actually on my man Vax's groin. It's very magical.
Matt: He slowly backs into the crowd, looking very disturbed and disgusted as everyone else is cheering for you. A tankard is slammed before you, filled with ale. "Drink up, you've earned it, champion."
Travis: I look at Gonad over at the side. I drink it, chug it down, and hold up the finger at the same time.
Matt: (laughs) He sits there and tenses for a second with a grin, as he growls, his cold breath in the cold Winter's Crest air dissipates up above him and he gives you a nod, the slow look of warrior intensity, but respect. You can see he's looking forward to hopefully this as much as you are, but he still has a battle to do himself.
Liam: I've spent the last ten minutes while he's kicking that guy's ass to find a soldier or somebody in the crowd to bet.
Sam: A young boy?
Liam: I'm not you. (laughter)
Liam: 200 gold on Grog. Somebody in the crowd.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Taliesin: All right.
Liam: 14.
Matt: Going around, you're hard-pressed to find somebody who at this moment in time is interested in betting any money against the goliath that helped save the city. You find one gentleman who seems a little interested and he gives you this sidelong, sleazy grin. "Tell you what, not 200 gold, but I'll put 50 down."
Liam: That's not worth it. 75 gold?
Matt: "Step away, halfie."
Laura: Oh! I heard it. I give him the evil eye.
Matt: He's too focused on the current bout at hand. At this table, you can now see Vedmeyer and the woman guard sits down. Someone's like, "Oh, Trisha's wrestling."
Travis: Her name's Trisha? Trish the Dish.
Matt: Vedmeyer, again with his chains against the wood as he sits down with a smile. He gives her a grin and nod. She's just-- intensity towards him the whole time. You can see there's a little bit of intensity to win, but you also see spite in that look. You see that she knows what he's done and this victory means more to her than otherwise. The two of them-- first match, she pushes and gets the upper hand. A three-quarter view perspective, she's tensing herself, you hear the muscle tensing beneath the armor itself, the metal creaking as her whole upper torso begins to push into it. She begins to push it back--
Laura: Yeah! Trish the Dish!
All: Trish the Dish! Trish the Dish!
Matt: As you guys are shouting this and keeping it going, she gets pushed back again into a defensive position. You see the blood rushing to her face, but he himself is starting to look really intense. You can see there's surprise in his face from the battle she's giving. She (groans) pushes him back to the center, this back and forth, the crowd is starting to get really intense. You can see the shouting, the cheering, gets really quiet as everyone is now breathlessly watching this bout. She pushes to three-quarters-- He rallies his own strength, but it's not enough, as she (impact sound) onto the table. As she releases, she goes, "You deserve that, and much more." She gets up and walks away. The tankard is held out for her. She pushes it aside and cracks her knuckles as she steps away. Vedmeyer is there staring at his hand. "Hmm. Fitting. It's a real pity, I was looking forward to fighting you."
Travis: Well, get used to disappointment, shithead.
Matt: At which point, his chains are tightened and the guards lift him up again off of his seat and he gets led off back into the crowd.
Laura: Yeah, walk away, you beardless bastard.
Matt: As everyone gathers in now, you can now see more discussions and people are starting to really place bets down now on the outcome of this circumstance. The barmaid comes up again. "You, champion Grog, sit down. And you, champion Trisha, sit down. As the final round of this show of majestic might happens now. Hands clasped, please."
Travis: If I may, thank you for your service to this city. That last round was a true pleasure to watch.
Matt: Her face goes from hardened to soft for a minute as she reaches out and clasps you, not hand in hand, but forearm to forearm, and gives you a solid shake. "I've done so little. You've done far more. But we all must do our part to keep the city safe."
Travis: Aye.
Matt: "But right now, I'm going to have to destroy you."
Laura: I kind of love Trish the Dish.
Marisha: I know, I like her, too.
Matt: Her clasp on your forearm slides back, keeping your hand. Both of you tense muscles, we're talking Predator vs. Schwarzenegger.
Travis: (Schwarzenegger accent) Yah, what's the matter, Dylan? You guys ate too many pretzels?
Matt: (laughs) Just like that. As the crowd begins to shout different names, you can see people going, "Trish, Trish, Trish, Grog, Grog, Grog." The voices are starting to grow and grow as both of you are standing there focusing on each other. You can see her tightly bunned dark brunette hair, you can see these green eyes piercing through, looking straight into yours with a bit of sly smirk on the side of her face. You can see a little bit of a scar on the outside of her face that's longtime healed and you can see she's definitely seen her share of battle, just from the complexion and the intensity in her face.
Marisha: She's one of us.
Matt: "For the final round, let this show of might begin!" Strength check.
Travis: Eight.
Matt: As the moment of tension hits, you can sense there's definitely a balance, both of you are keeping at bay. She cocks her head curiously and forces you down to the three-quarter back position. Go ahead and make another strength check.
Laura: Come on, Grog! Oh my god.
Travis: Six.
Liam: It's that sword's influence.
Travis: Yeah, it's laughing in the Bag of Holding.
Matt: She brings you right down to the edge of the table and you can see in her face, there's this genuine look of surprise, like she probably could have finished you, but she feels like there's a trick or there's something to it that she can't be beating you this easy.
Travis: I'm so surprised by what's happening. I use Intimidating Presence on her.
Marisha: Oh shit.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Go ahead and make an intimidation check.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: Does this have to be during a rage?
Travis: 12. I'll go into a rage for it.
Matt: (laughing) It may have to be. Let's see.
Laura: (laughing) Why weren't you raging the whole time?
Travis: I was hoping I wouldn't need it!
Matt: No, you don't have to be in a rage for it, but you can choose to, if you want.
Travis: it doesn't add anything to my strength roll, right?
Matt: A 12 for intimidation? Well, what do you want to do to try and intimidate her? She's about to finish you off on this table.
Travis: I'm like, oh! (grunts) and I bite down on my tongue and blood just starts to pour out of the corner of my mouth.
Laura: Oh, gross!
Matt: She sees this, and her eyes go wide for a second. She pulls back and for a brief moment, you feel her grip loosen ever so slightly. Go ahead and make the next strength check with advantage.
Travis: Fuck. (laughing) It's unreal. 11.
Matt: 11?
Travis: The other one was a one.
Matt: Well, I'm glad you had advantage on that; she rolled a five. So you do manage to (groans) force her back up. You're still in a bad place, but you manage to pull out of that circle and you can see now her intensity hits and she realizes she's not going to go soft on you at all going forward. But as the blood pools down your chin, you can feel the iron-y taste swishing around in your mouth and you can see there's a little bit of a quiver to her. She's still spooked by this whole circumstance, but she's trying her best. Go ahead and make another strength check.
Travis: She's battle-worn. 19.
Laura: That's good!
Matt: That's good. She has disadvantage on these because of the fright. I'm giving her that, but even still, she still rolls a 17. What did you roll, total?
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19. You guys keep it-- she's still holding you there, you're not able to gain any ground. You're really impressed by this display she's giving you. Roll again.
Travis: Do I have advantage? No.
Matt: No.
Travis: 12.
Matt: 12? Okay. She forces you back down--
Sam: I step forward and I sing a song of inspiration.
Matt: What are you singing?
Sam: I sing, (sings) let's go raging now, everybody's learning how, come on on a rampage with me!
Taliesin: Come on on a rampage with me!
Matt: All right, take a d10 inspiration, as you hear the song break through the intensity and you know that Scanlan's presence alone in itself and his fine ditties means that you can do this.
Travis: Fine ditties!
Liam: Show us your ditties!
Travis: 16.
Matt: 16?
Laura: With the ten inspiration.
Matt: With the ten? Okay. It's good you did that. You force her back up, she starts like, really pushing into it and you can see now the sweat's dripping off of her brow, her eyes are quivering. Make another check. How long does that last?
Travis: Seven.
Matt: Seven. Hold on.
Laura: You should switch.
Sam: Grog, what are you doing?!
Travis: (laughing) I don't know! They're so low! It was all those free rolls during the two weeks when I rolled 20--
Sam: Oh my god, do you really have hand herpes? (laughter)
Matt: What did you roll?
Travis: Seven.
Matt: Seven. Yeah, she still beats you. So, at this point, you're pushed down. She gives you this look--
Travis: This is unreal.
Matt: Yeah. Of intense anger-- and her face softens and she gives you a nod of respect. (thud) Releases her grip and pulls away, holds her arms up, crowd goes wild. The drink is slammed in front of her, the ale swishing and spilling over the side. She takes it in one hand and slides it forward and hands it to you.
Laura: Aw, she's a good lady.
Travis: You are a true warrior and I hope you'll continue to protect this city with that strength.
Matt: "I intend to." She gives you a nod, walks around, accepts her coin purse and steps back into the rest of the celebration.
Travis: I walk away (coughs), coughing (coughs), trying not to cry. (coughs) I take my tankard and splash it on my face. Oh, it's just ale. It's just ale. (sobs)
Sam: It's okay, Grog. Let's go get you drunk.
Matt: As this is happening, a courier comes up dressed in colors that are reminiscent of the courier service that travels through Emon, through Westruun. There's a certain type of overcoat they wear that gives you the inclination that they've traveled from nearby civilization. Steps up with a rolled up sequence of letters and a small box that is wrapped up.
Marisha: Oh look, the young boy you ordered, Scanlan.
Matt: He's in his mid-20s. (laughter)
Matt: He's asking around. "Looking for a Percival and a Vox Machina. Percival?"
Taliesin: I'm Percival.
Matt: "You're Percival?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "I'm to deliver this to you." He hands you the small box. "I have here two small letters." And hands them over both to you. There's a small, thin one that is actually written to Percival, and there's one addressed to Vox Machina.
Taliesin: I was going to sit here and watch you roll them.
Marisha: Presentation's lost.
Matt: That's fine.
Sam: I just noticed Taliesin's outfit, by the way.
Laura: We were supposed to wear pajamas.
Taliesin: I wore my pajamas. My muppet pajamas.
Matt: Yeah, the week got busy and we forgot.
Travis: You don't want me in my pajamas because they're--
Matt: That one's to you and the other one's to Vox Machina.
Sam: (sings) Letters, we've got letters.
Taliesin: Oh, this is quite interesting. "Vox Machina, a little bird tells me you have been playing the heroes again. Keep this up, and the whole world will end up indebted to you. Please accept this small gift in the spirit of Winter's Crest, as a token of my enduring gratitude. Perhaps it will prove useful in a difficult moment. In the meantime, I look forward to a fuller account of your deeds reaching us in Vasselheim. A joyous Crest to you all. It seems you have earned it. Lillith."
Laura: Oh!
Taliesin: "P.S., Zahra sends her greetings."
Sam: (dreamily) Zahra.
Marisha: The tieflings!
Sam: We had quite a night together. Just braiding each other's hair.
Taliesin: I tuck the private note away and put it in my pocket.
Travis: Yeah, there's another one, right?
Matt: There is a box, yes.
Laura: Oh, is it big enough to hold a giant carpet?
Taliesin: Perhaps a small ice egg.
Matt: It's about that big in your hands.
Taliesin: We open the box.
Matt: You open the gift. Inside, there are two--
Sam: Check it for traps!
Matt: (laughs) Make a reflex save-- no. As you open it, you see inside there are two crystalline stones that both identically look like that.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: It's been a while since we had a visual aid.
Matt: Yeah, it's nice when you have a really good artist, apparently. But two stones like this. They are called Gate Stones.
Sam: Gate Stones?
Matt: The two stones are essentially linked. One is placed wherever you like and the other is kept with you. A single individual, just an individual, not a group, can take a minute to concentrate on one stone and be instantly transported to where the other stone is, with the stone.
Travis: Badass.
Liam: One-way ticket.
Matt: Essentially, yeah.
Travis: You take it with you and you can zoom back to wherever you left it.
Sam: There are two stones in this box?
Matt: Yeah. They are the two that are linked.
Travis: A person or linked?
Matt: No, there is a single set.
Marisha: So this is a get out of jail free card.
Sam: Or a bamf-in-Pike card.
Matt: There's multiple situational uses for it, depending. But apparently this has been painstakingly either enchanted, constructed, and sent by Lillith for you.
Liam: They're all from Lillith?
Matt: Yeah, the letters and those two stones.
Sam: From Lillith and Zahra?
Matt: And Zahra, both of them, essentially.
Marisha: Yeah, Lillith doesn't have the other stone?
Liam: For a little arcane booty call?
Taliesin: I don't know what you're talking about.
Travis: Please?
Taliesin: No.
Laura: I don't think I've ever seen Percy giggle before.
Travis: Are you blushing?
Taliesin: No. It's cold. Very cold.
Travis: It's a new demon, isn't it? The blushing demon!
Taliesin: She was great, wasn't she?
Sam: Lillith is a true friend. Zahra, as well.
Taliesin: Zahra is great, as well.
Matt: You hear murmurs now, people mentioning the pie-eating contest starting soon.
Sam: Vex and Vax!
Laura: All right, we'll give it a go.
Matt: As you guys make your way over there, we're going to go ahead and go to our break. We're at the middle point here, yeah. So it's going to be a longer break guys, because we've got a little present for you. I know for a while we've been talking about this work we've been doing on a pre-stream story of Vox Machina's adventures that you guys hadn't had a chance to really experience. So, through all of us doing our individual narration, as well as the wonderful Wendy Sullivan doing incredible work on 50 pieces of art for this, and using music from actually some of our Critters that sent us some great musical tracks, we have been able to present to you over the next 20 minutes, the story of Vox Machina, the beginning. So, enjoy guys, we'll see you here in a moment.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: The grandest of adventures often stem from humble beginnings. The story of Vox Machina is one such a tale. They begin as a ragtag group of mercenaries in the swamp town of Stillben, eking out a living, when a job board posting brings them to Fendril Vas, the wealthy head of a small merchant empire. Hired to investigate new competition in town called The Myriad, the path eventually leads them into a chamber housing a planar rift, pulling the group into the plane of the stillborn god Crysa-Thul. It is revealed that the contract was a ruse to feed the party to the undead, fetal deity. Upon destroying the abomination, the party returns to repay Fendril's deceit with a blade to the throat.
Laura: Weeks pass, and Grog the barbarian hasn't been seen since suddenly leaving for the city of Westruun. Heading there in search of him, the party meets his childhood friend, and their new companion: the gnome cleric, Pike. Grog apparently hasn't been acting normally, and had marched off on his own through the Bramblewood towards the ominous mountain, Gatshadow. The party followed, dispensing with a troop of roadside thieves along the way, and wound their way toward the mountain. Deep within, they encountered an abandoned subterranean city and eventually a crypt housing a mind-controlled Grog, the reanimated corpse of his father Strongjaw, and a dying mage attempting a ritual to Lichdom. Our heroes slayed the mage, but not before he could complete the ritual and embed his phylactery into Grog's chest. Returning to town in search of aid, they find there are few of enough knowledge or power to ascertain the nature of Grog's wound. Also, rumors of missing children begin to reach the party's ears. While contemplating all this at a local inn, the party is approached by a mysterious elf named Drez Vina who wishes to pay handsomely for the party to infiltrate an archmage's tower, and retrieve a particular brass box within. Pushing forward in the hopes of speaking with this archmage, the party accepts, and passes through arcane trap after trap to reach the top of the tower, deciding not to steal from the archmage but instead parley with him for his aid. The tower's keeper, Realmseer Eskil Ryndarien, agrees to help and sends the party to collect two items he requires for the ritual: the skull of a nightmare and the heart of a nymph. The caveat: their defeated foe is indeed a lich now, and in merely two weeks, he will be reborn within Grog! They travel north to the Umbra Hills, wrestle with a small cult to slay their infernal messenger and his nightmare steed, and find a fresh companion in Percy, newly freed from imprisonment. From there, the party rushes south to the Frostweald, a forest shrouded in eternal winter. Battling past basilisks, the party finds a single, unfrozen pool where they coax a nymph from her dimensional sanctuary. Talking their way out of battle, Grog enters the sanctuary with the nymph, and returns holding a jewel gifted by the beautiful creature: the "heart" of the nymph.
Liam: Traveling back to the archmage, the ritual is completed and the phylactery destroyed in time, but not without some lingering necromancy branded within Grog. They are suddenly approached by the mysterious elf again, saying his master is unhappy with the broken contract, and he demands that either the debt be paid, or the party complete a more difficult contract in its place. The party accepts, and heads into the Shade Barrow, an ancient druid burial chamber that was purchased and renovated by an eccentric lord who made it his own tomb. Fighting the denizens of the barrow, they locate the tomb and the iron golem guarding it. Successfully defeating the golem, they tear the Arcane Cortex from its chest and return it to Drez to square their debt. After a bit of R and R, a clean-shaven dwarf named Grimthorne propositions the group to enter a nearby, underground fighting ring, even offering to represent them. The party agrees and, not surprisingly, manages to pull off a victory. With the holiday of Winter's Crest arriving, the town bustles with preparation for a festival, during which a strange blue crystal is delivered in the name of Archmage Eskil. This crystal suddenly detonates, freezing the entire populace of Westruun in ice-- though the party is protected by a sudden ally in the streets. In a last-ditch arcane effort, a mystic merchant named Noja manages to shield the group from harm. And where the crystal previously rested now stood a pale, nude woman of white hair and frail physique. She opens a portal and leaps through, the party giving chase into what seems like an icy, frozen world, chaotic and elemental in nature. They catch up to the woman, who then reveals her true self: a great white dragon. Weakened by her premature "rebirth", the party manages to defeat her, and upon returning to Westruun, discover its people released from their icy prison. With the archmage Eskil Ryndarien now on trial for the attack on Westruun, the party intercedes and proves his innocence. In thanks, Eskil uses his talents to investigate the source of the blue crystal, revealing the powerful society of thieves, known as the Clasp, responsible for its delivery. Vax, having previously been a member of the Clasp, knows the main headquarters lies within the capital city of Emon, and Vox Machina sets out for the west.
Ashley: Upon arriving in the sprawling metropolis of Emon, the party continues to hear of children disappearing, and reports of a black-haired, golden-eyed boy befriending them before they vanish. While investigating, they do a few odd jobs, one of which unexpectedly leads them to the home of Syldor, Vex and Vax's father, and his new wife and child. Awkwardness aside, Syldor is here as ambassador to Syngorn, the elven city of their origin, to seek aid from the Sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei. However, the political climate of Emon is tense with a recent, failed attempt on the royal family's life making Uriel unreachable at the moment. Syldor's connection within the Council has now gone missing, and his mission stands at a complete standstill. He hires the party to look in on this missing ally, Sir Gregory Fince, and get his ear back to Syngornian business. Vox Machina finds Sir Gregory's home dark and still, pushing them to infiltrate and investigate. Within, they discover a dark presence in the home, leading them into a battle with demons in the basement. The battle won, Sir Gregory's tortured corpse is found, as are his notes about the attempted assassination on Uriel and his family. It seems that since the attempt, the royal family has grown strange and withdrawn, keeping Uriel from the council most hours, and his wife now demanding she attend all meetings, whispering in the Sovereign's ear and scoffing at the others who defy their decree. A General Krieg thwarted the attempt, and is mentioned often. The party decides to inquire with him. On their way out of the basement, half of the party falls into a trap, tumbling into a cistern and are flushed deep below into a subterranean river system. The trapped party members-- Vex, Keyleth, Grog, Tiberius, and Percy-- come to rest on a small island in the vast Crystalfen Lake, home to a terrible aboleth! Barely escaping, they eventually discover the base remnants of an ancient town, long toppled, and a small hut that contains a clever hag named Trysta. Tiberius finds one of his prized artifacts and makes a dangerous deal to acquire it. The party barters for information on how to escape, which Trysta will give... in exchange for their aid in slaying a newly nested denizen that threatens her work. The party agrees, climbing to the very top of the Crystalfen Cavern to do battle with an umber-hulk. The fight goes south when Grog is tossed from the cavern ceiling, nearly dying upon impact with the island, but victory is eventually theirs. Returning, Trysta shows them a hidden staircase that exits into the Graveyard District of Emon.
Travis: The other members-- Vax, Pike, and Scanlan-- set out to find where the cistern could have drained to. Scanlan leaves to seek out a map of the sewers, while Vax and Pike notice they are being followed through the town. Leading the pursuers into an alley, the shadowed figures attack, eventually knocking them both out. Vax and Pike awaken within the Clasp's headquarters, meeting with one of their leaders, or Spirelings, named Modeth. The Clasp had Sir Gregory's home under surveillance, as bad political stuff can be difficult for the way the Clasp does business, and when our heroes were spotted leaving, they had to be interrogated. Vax reveals his membership to the Clasp sect in Westruun, and Modeth calls for a test of their skills and intent. Pike and Vax are then forced to do battle with a chained chimera in the Clasp's arena. Their might rings true, and the beast falls beneath their weapons, but Modeth is not convinced. While the two are held overnight, they manage to escape from the Clasp's lair, exiting into the night and managing to locate the rest of the party in the Graveyard district. Knowing their next step is to speak with General Krieg, Vax forges a letter of summons using Sir Gregory's handwriting, and the party is allowed entry into the carefully guarded Cloudtop District, the innermost area of the city and home to the Citrine Garrison, as well as Emon's Palace. Approaching the garrison, they have an audience with General Krieg, who seems nice and keenly interested upon learning of the Clasp's involvement. He also mentions the difficulty in talking with Uriel since the attack, and is sad about the death of Sir Gregory, but warns to leave the investigation to the officials. Vox Machina then heads to the palace to try their hand at speaking with Uriel, but entry is barred. They find another is being prevented from entering, a golden-haired woman in fancy blue robes who angrily stomps away from the palace doors. They engage her in conversation, and she reveals herself to be Allura Vysoren, a powerful arcanist and member of the Tal'Dorei Council. They discuss the state of things within the palace, how Uriel is a good and trusted man, but his actions (and those of the Empress Salda) are recently suspect. After seven days of being kept from the council chambers, she's about to give up and leave. The party tells her of their findings, and Allura leads them to her tower within the district to further discuss the matter in private.
Sam: Within, Allura and the party make an alliance, and Keyleth aids her in performing a scrying ritual on the palace. The vision reveals that the family of Uriel-- his wife, two daughters, and son-- are all under the influence of some demonic force, and have addled the mind of their father, using him as a mouthpiece for their plot. The party decides to pay a visit to the Clasp, using Vax and Pike's knowledge of an entrance, and end up in a confrontation with Spireling Modeth within his chambers. The battle ends with Modeth's head on the floor and four strange, glowing crystals he had been keeping now stolen by the party. They attempt to leave, but are met by a host of Clasp members and another, dangerous-looking Spireling. Through Scanlan's deft lies and coercion, the party is allowed to leave unharmed before their deeds are discovered. They return to Allura's tower only to find the front door ajar and the interior tossed by some previous scuffle. As they reach the top of the tower, they investigate, finding signs of a struggle with a demonic entity, and Allura's escape seemingly successful. Unfortunately, a magical defense of the tower is triggered, and it begins to cave and crumble around them. Through some ingenuity-- and the discovery of a magic carpet-- the party manages to escape being crushed within, Allura's ivory monolith now compacted into a single, magical pearl. Our heroes then locate and enter the home of General Krieg, finding a brainwashed servant and a hidden passage that leads to a teleportation circle. Using the device, they are transported to a distant cavern, high in a range of frost-covered mountains, and an incredible hoard of gold, jewels, and fine trinkets. Across the room are four obsidian orbs placed within the rock. As one is touched, a giant eye appears from within the black crystal and a voice erupts, calling for a Brimscythe, and noticing the unfamiliar folk, mentions, "Intruders... I know your face now. He is a fool, and so are you, insect." The orbs all crack simultaneously, becoming inert. Grog dives right in, rage-looting the gold, but the arrival of the party seems to call the attention of General Krieg, who appears at the teleportation circle. He angrily denounces the party and reveals his true form, that of a frightening blue dragon!
Marisha: The battle is difficult, with many an ally nearly devoured, but eventually Vax strikes a mortal blow. Krieg, or Brimscythe, defiantly smashes against the support pillars of the cavern in his death throes, causing the chamber to collapse, the party barely escaping via the teleportation circle. Leaving Krieg's home, Allura finds the party and warns that the evil that feeds on the throne is growing more bold. She herself was attacked shortly after the scrying was complete, and barely escaped. As dark clouds fill the sky above Emon, the party decides the time to strike has come. Allura aids the party in infiltrating the palace, and they storm the throne room. Uriel sits upon his throne, surrounded by his creepily mannered, possessed family. Vox Machina attacks, managing to banish the shadows from within their bodies, but the throne itself cracks in half as the dais below glows a deep red, summoning the entity behind the entire scheme: a devil prince called Juurezel, who tells the party of a great war between devils and demons spilling over into this plane, threatening all creation. He justifies his actions, and notes all the demonic forces throughout the city, and tells them of the horrible devastation that will ensue if the party stops him. They read him as honest, and Juurezel asks for their aid in destroying the demonic threat, offering a single Wish should they make a pact. The party deliberates and agrees to the contract. Thinking over what they had just agreed to, the party returns to the throne room, asking for their Wish to be provided to aid them in their demon hunting. Upon its casting, the party wishes to cancel their contract with the creature, and attack! The devil prince angrily reveals his true form, a hideous treachery demon, a glabrezu. A long, deadly, and epic confrontation ensues, one that suddenly claims the life of the gnomish cleric, Pike. Her death fresh in their minds, Vox Machina deals the killing blow, sending the demon to its unmaking. They gather up the cold body of their fallen friend and rush her to a nearby temple of Sarenrae, where a resurrection ritual is attempted... and succeeds.
Taliesin: The clouds disperse, the immediate danger over, but the royal family lies on the throne room floor, catatonic. Upon inspection, their souls are missing and their bodies failing. The party recalls the four glowing orbs they recovered from the Clasp headquarters behind Modeth, now identified as soul jars, and through a rigorous and tense evening, all souls are successfully restored to the family. A few days pass, and Sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei calls the party for audience. He thanks them all for their bravery, heroism, and for saving him, his family, and quite possibly all of Emon. As thanks, he offers them a place on the Tal'Dorei Council and informs them of his intent to throw another Winter's Crest festival to make up for the ones ruined in Westruun, and here via assassination attempt, where they will be celebrated as heroes! He has also commissioned the construction of a keep for them on the outskirts of Emon as a sign of his very deep gratitude. A week later, the festival begins! The populace is out in full force to meet and celebrate Vox Machina, but during the festivities, the party notices Uriel's son Gren speaking to another child-- one with black hair and golden eyes. They immediately spring to apprehend the child, but he escapes with Uriel's son. They give chase, following him into an alley, and through a portal of some kind. The party finds themselves atop a large island drifting through the Astral Plane, surrounded by a perilous bramble forest. They fight their way through, eventually coming upon a gothic mansion towards the center of the landmass. Within, the party makes their way to the inner library, where numerous kidnapped children are working all about the place, cleaning nervously. The Dread Emperor, as he calls himself, stands from his chair, the child illusion fading into a golden-armored man with long, black hair, four children chained at the neck to his breastplate. He attacks the party with fierce magic, mind-controlling all of his child servants to attack as well. With the first blow dealt, they realize that damaging him also hurts the chained children, one boy accidentally falling in battle to Keyleth's magic. Eventually, they succeeded in destroying the Dread Emperor and return to Emon with a host of lost children, happily now found. Six months of peace follow as their new keep is constructed, and the party scatters to their separate business until its completion. Upon their return, they assess their new abode with delight, naming it Greyskull Keep. They then send out job inquiries, seeking guards for hire, and servants. After an impromptu try-out, they settle upon their new hires.
Matt: That evening, the party receives a visitor in their friend Arcanist Allura Vysoren. She happily sits with the party for dinner, and trades tales of their past months, before asking if she could hire their services for a matter of great personal importance. Allura's longtime friend and ally, Lady Kima of Vord, has gone missing, following a vision quest from her deity, the platinum dragon Bahamut. Her last letter spoke of an evil taking root beneath the dwarven city of Kraghammer, and Allura worries for her safety. While Allura is unable to go herself, she can provide the proper paperwork for entry, and would pay handsomely if they could find, aid, and return with Kima. Vox Machina agrees to the new contract and sets out for the city of Kraghammer the very next day. As for the rest of their journey... the legend of Vox Machina is still being written.
Matt: Hello! And welcome back. I hope you guys enjoyed your little look into the past of Vox Machina. Once again, thank you to everyone who helped us with that. Huge thanks to Wendy. You were amazing in putting that together for us. It's been a long-time endeavor coming.
Liam: We love you, Wendy.
Matt: And all the wonderful Critters that are incredibly talented put the music together and we are very thankful that you helped us fill out the soundtrack. If you didn't catch all the names, they're at the bottom of the credits and hopefully we'll have that video up separately on the website soon, so people who couldn't make it tonight will have a chance to see it for their own. That being the case, when the rest of them decide they want to join us, those who are going towards the pie eating contest. You start pushing through the crowd, making your way towards the two long tables that are set up. At this, you can see there are a pair of bakers that are standing there with stacks and stacks of various pies of various flavors they have been preparing, all different colors and shapes, just pushed into a pile, as people are gathered around, excitedly sitting at the table.
Laura: Is Trinket allowed to join in the pie eating contest too?
Matt: (laughs) You can ask.
Laura: (laughs) I do.
Matt: Okay, one of the bakers is sitting there. "All right, all right. So sit there, everyone's got a table. We have room for about four more."
Laura: Oh.
Liam: Right here.
Matt: "All right, three more."
Laura: And a bear. Is there room for a bear?
Matt: "A bear. Like, a bear?"
Laura: Yeah, but a very human-acting bear.
Matt: "Oh, sure. Bring him in. No! It's a bear! Two more, room for two more."
Travis: Do you want me to join?
Liam: Can someone transmogrify Trinket, quickly?
Laura: (gasps) Can you Polymorph Trinket, Keyleth?
Marisha: Into what?
Laura: A human.
Liam: To a hot man.
Taliesin: To a lumberjack.
Laura: Into a lumberjack of a man?
Marisha: I don't think it works that way.
Laura: Try it!
Taliesin: Old Spice commercial. Make it happen.
Matt: You can certainly try.
Marisha: I try it.
Liam: Winter's Crest magic!
Marisha: I believe. I believe in the spirit of Winter's Crest.
Laura: Can you Polymorph Trinket into a man?
Sam: Sure.
Laura: Scanlan says he can.
Marisha: I think Scanlan actually might have a better chance with Seeming?
Sam: I can Polymorph Trinket.
Marisha: But can you Polymorph animals into people?
Matt: Technically, you could, yeah.
Marisha: I can?
Matt: Technically. I don't see why not.
Marisha: Sure. Yeah, I'm going to make him real beefy. He's got pecs that can lift semi-trucks. All right?
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Fur, just fur--
Sam: Furry belly? What is that?
Marisha: Like that guy in the beginning of Barbarella.
Matt: So you turned your bear into a bear.
Taliesin: Brian Blessed.
Marisha: Yes.
Laura: Here's my bear, right here.
Matt: So you rush off and you come back with Trinket. As you can see, he's walking a little strange and (bear moans) Rolls up and brushes his scruffy man beard against the side of your face. You gather, Polymorph does not affect the intellect of whatever you transform.
Liam: I grab a mug of ale and go  another one, right? Yeah! He's had so many!
Laura: So drunk, this guy!
Marisha: Wait, wait, wait. Grog, do we still have that helmet, that pot that you wore on your head, in the Bag of Holding?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Can we have that real quick?
Travis: Yeah, okay. So I reach in and take out the big bronze pot.
Marisha: I put the pot on his head.
Laura: Why?
Marisha: It's special.
Sam: Oh, he has a helmet head?
Matt: So the pot, which covers Trinket's head... (bear moans)
Laura: He does not need a pot on his head. Trinket, have a seat in this chair like a normal human.
Travis: You can give that back to me.
Laura: Here you go.
Liam: I keep giving him ale.
Matt: Okay. (laughs) What is going on? Okay. So, at this time, you guys have people gathered around now. You guys all take your places at the table. You have to put your feet planted, everyone pushing elbow to elbow. You guys sit down amongst yourselves in a cluster and you eventually guide over as your fourth at the end of your group, your Polymorphed bear friend who's still (confused moans) messing with his manly ham hands. [no audio]
Matt: "To eat..."
Liam: I do not have much confidence. You have always eaten more than me, always.
Matt: "Now!" Dive in face first, arms behind you, just tearing through these pies. Just blackberries, strawberries, all forms of berries just being tossed everywhere. There's a couple chicken pies--
Liam: No hands, no hands!
Laura: Oh, no hands?
Matt: No hands, no.
Laura: Trinket, no hands.
Matt: Trinket goes like, (inquisitive grunt).
Laura: No hands! No paws!
Marisha: (laughs) No paws! No paws!
Sam: I'm going to use Message to communicate to Grog: If there was ever a time for a prank, now is it.
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: As you all tear through your first large pies, smeared across the faces, with your mind off to the side, you glance over, everyone go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: Constitution? Oh, he's going to barf.
Liam: 20, Natural 20!
Laura: Oh, you rattled the table, it was 15, then it fell over.
Liam: Oh, sorry, Charlie.
Laura: Seven for me, because he rattled the damn table, because he's an asshole.
Liam: Yeah. Separate issues.
Laura: And then Trinket rolled a 21.
Matt: All right, Grog?
Travis: Oh, I'm not eating.
Matt: Oh, you're not eating?
Travis: I thought it was just you two guys.
Laura: It was us and Trinket.
Matt: Okay, all right, cool. So, the three of you tearing through. You finish the first pie. The second pies slam down, you all look at it, you have a little moment. Close, but not too bad. You gather yourself and dive into a second round of pies, splashing all over the table.
Liam: I elbow my sister, then dive into the pie.
Matt: (laughs) Trinket is having a hard time keeping the hands behind. You can see one of the bakers suddenly come by and hold the hands back. (growls aggressively)
Laura: He's really drunk! Don't touch him too much.
Matt: "All right, just keep--"
Laura: No hands, Trinket.
Liam: He lost half his family here, in the attack on Whitestone.
Matt: More and more pie crust being tossed aside, the table is a mess. The bakers are starting to scoop off whatever is left over off to the side into buckets. As you finish the second pie, make another constitution saving throw with the DC increasing with each progressive pie.
Laura: Oh. (laughs)
Travis: Wow.
Laura: Natural one for me.
Liam: Oh boy, I got a big six.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Come on, Trinket!
Sam: (whispers) Luck!
Liam: Yes, thank you, Scanlan. I got a big seven. (laughter)
Laura: 14 for Trinket. I rolled a one.
Matt: Yeah. Okay, so as you both finish your secondary pie, you both sit up and look at each other with dark purple berry filling down the side of your face. You both make eye contact at the same time, as you both go (vomiting sound) and release your fresh payload into the pans before you. Baker comes by, slamming the hand down. "Disqualified!" You look around the side, you aren't the only ones. A number of other individuals have dropped out now. You're down to five people at the table that are still eating, one of which is Trinket, who finishes his second pie. Food smeared all across the face, getting all in the beard. Some of it has dribbled down into the chest hair, it's a pretty terrifying sight. Third pies are slammed down on the table. These last five individuals and Trinket. Have Trinket roll another constitution saving throw.
Marisha: Come on, Trink!
Laura: You want to inspire him?
Matt: You're adding your modifier, right?
Laura: 13.
Matt: You're adding your modifier, right?
Laura: What modifier?
Matt: His constitution modifier.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so this time, everyone finishes this last pie. Two of the individuals end up having to stop, just duck out, have to run off out into the crowd. Three of them make it through, Trinket just barely finishes the third pie. (gulps, distressed growls) He gives you that look of like, (distressed growling).
Laura: Buddy. You can keep doing it! I'll give you--
Sam: Food?
Laura: I know, I got nothing. A nice nap. You can have the bed tonight and I'll sleep on the floor.
Matt: (pants) He looks over and another pie is set down, the fourth round of pies go down. The last three and Trinket join in. Make another constitution saving throw for Trinket.
Laura: Okay. It was almost a fucking 15. 15.
Matt: A 15? Total?
Laura: Yeah. Oh no.
Matt: That set of pies finished, two of the remaining three end up getting up partway through the pie and one of them vomits off to the side. The other one stops, stands up and walks away, going (distressed noises). Spits out the food in his mouth in his hand, re-examining his life. The other remaining gentleman finishes the pie. There's sweat down his face (panting), you see the little bit of a chinstrap beard he has just covered in berries and bits of crust, this awful appearance. Trinket finishes the last bits of the pie (chomp, distressed bellow).
Laura: Oh, I feel so guilty right now!
Liam: Why is he so good at being sad bear?
Laura: I know! Don't be sad bear, be happy bear!
Travis: 300 gold!
Laura: It's just 100 gold.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: Oh, a persuasion check for Trinket?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: So he'll keep eating?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Oh, buddy. 15?
Matt: 15. Trinket looks at you.
Laura: I love you.
Matt: (distressed growls)
Marisha: You're like a Toddlers and Tiaras mom right now.
Laura: I know. This is the worst. I'm the worst mom.
Matt: Looks down and across the table, the gentleman who's also there scoots over right in front and goes, "May the best man win, eh?" Trinket goes, (loud growl).
Laura: Get angry! Eat angry!
Matt: There are bits of pie spattering across him on the ground. Two pies (thud) brought down in front. These are not fruit pies. These are meat pies.
Travis: Oh! That's so wrong!
Laura: That's okay, Trinket likes meat way more than fruit.
Matt: Then he goes, (distressed groans, sniffs).
Laura: Is it a salmon pie? He likes fish.
Matt: Constitution saving throw.
Travis: With advantage, because it's meat?
Laura: Beause it's salmon. It's a salmon pie, and he loves salmon.
Matt: (pauses) Hold on. There do appear to be hints of fish inside. I will grant you advantage on this saving throw.
Laura: Okay. Fucking balls, mother bitch.
Marisha: Advantage?
Laura: I did roll with advantage. 11.
Matt: 11. Both of them dive into their pies, coasting through. At a certain point, Trinket stops and (pants) breathes heavily in the pie. You can see bits of it over the edge, just from the nostril flare, looks up at you (distressed growl).
Laura: It's okay, buddy. It's okay.
Liam: I instinctively move behind Vex.
Matt: The gentleman across the way looks up as well and is like (pants heavily, groans). They both dive into the pies together again, slowly, trying to make their way through and then in a moment, they both look up at each other and their eyes make a connection as a look of sudden fear and realization hits both of them. They both sit up and with but a moment's notice, the two bakers set down two pails at their side as both of them simultaneously just... buckets. Losing simultaneously, at which point both of them raise their other hand mid-expulsion. "We have a tie! A victory! Both winners lasted quite a ways, splitting the pot, that's 50 gold each." Everyone cheers, yay!
All: Good job, Trinket!
Matt: (weary growls)
Laura: You don't have to eat anything else if you don't want to.
Matt: (growls)
Laura: Okay.
Travis: He gets to sleep on the bed.
Laura: You get to sleep on the bed and I will sleep on the damn floor.
Matt: Trinket steps up and pushes away from the guy and goes running towards you on his hands and knees. (laughter)
Matt: (growls) Everyone goes like "Whoa-- " as he runs by and starts nuzzling you.
Laura: Oh, this guy. This guy is so drunk!
Travis: There was some mold in those pies!
Matt: The baker hands you a sack of gold. "For your friend."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: When he's feeling better.
Taliesin: My favorite kind of pie.
Liam: I come over to my sister with two big mugs of ale and hand one to her and say, here, don't swallow the first one, just swish around and spit it out, then the rest.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: That's a good one. (laughter)
Matt: At this point, you can now hear voices start to raise, people going, "Oh, the Keeper, the Keeper's going to speak." The people start gathering towards the center of town where the Sun Tree is. As you all begin to gather for this central moment of the festival, Keeper Yennen steps up. Cassandra steps up with him and you can see he's looking over the crowd, eventually meeting Percy's gaze.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: He leads you up onto the stage. The three of you stand out amongst the rest of the crowd as everyone gathers. The children are sitting in the front, expectantly with their hands under their legs, looking up with big smiles. Some of them are covered in candy and whatever else they've managed to acquire throughout the festival. The music begins to slowly die down until silence hits and a small cold breeze begins to blow through, as you see a couple of fresh flakes of snow begin to fall from the sky above Whitestone. The Keeper looks out over the crowd as the hush takes the rest of the group. "Friends, families, brave soldiers and defenders of this wondrous city. We gather today to celebrate for the first time in many years, our own Winter's Crest festival." There's some clapping. "It is on this day that we remember, centuries ago, when Erevan, the Ice King, Keeper of the Far Realm of Ice and 'the Elemental Planes, attempted to tear his way into Tal'Dorei, was kept at bay and sent back packing from whence he came." There are some cheers from the crowd. "In this, we also are reminded of family, reminded of friendship, and the bonds that we as a people keep ourselves and our families safe, that we rise up to the occasion to show true heroism. To stand by our beliefs and not let the darkness swallow our hope. And by that, we are able to bring to you, this day, the surviving members of the de Rolo family: Cassandra and Percival." You hear some whistles from the crowd and some cheers well up again. Some shouts, "de Rolo!" some yells from the crowd. Keeper Yennen puts his arms out. "These two, among friends, Vox Machina, the intrepid adventurers from Emon, spearheaded our freedom, from the terrible, tyrant ruin that the Briarwoods had set us upon. So today, we celebrate not just our joint friendships. We celebrate true heroism and give thanks that there are still"-- looking to you, Percy-- "people who will do whatever it takes to rise to the good of this land." He looks to Cassandra. "Who in the long run, know the right choices to make and amongst the darkness, still choose sight of the light. May we all raise our glasses to the prosperous future of this city amongst the Alabaster Sierras and to the continued future of the de Rolo family." Everyone raises their glasses up. "Huzzah!" (cheering)
Matt: Cheers, everyone drinks, the music swells again, people begin to cheer and scatter and Keeper Yennen leads you guys off of the stage. The rest of you gather up as some people come up and shake hands and express their gratitude and thanks. As the crowd begins to die off a little bit, Keeper Yennen gives you all a look and beckons you over. "If you wouldn't mind, a moment of your time. I think there are a few things we need to discuss."
Taliesin: Of course.
Matt: "Cassandra?" She comes as well. And you all step off out of the festival for a while. A few folks attempt to follow to see what's going on. Some of the guards usher them away. You guys are led into an empty building, looks to have been a home of some kind that has long since been abandoned. As you step inside, it's cold and still in here, very low light other than a little oil lantern that's been lit by one of the guards as you step inside. The door closes behind and Keeper Yennen turns around. "There is no real way that we can show our appreciation for what you've done for our people. But first and foremost, there are funds within the de Rolo family treasury left behind by the Briarwoods that we hope could help compensate for some of your expenditures and 'hardships you've undergone."
Laura: So many, just so many.
Matt: "This is, of course, at the behest of the de Rolo family, who are the inheritors of this fortune."
Marisha: Thanks, Percy.
Laura: Percival, you're looking very attractive today.
Taliesin: I know.
Travis: Very appropriate.
Matt: "Now, we've had a few weeks of peace and recovery, of rebuilding and reforging the real bonds of this society here in Whitestone. But going forward, there needs to be a governing force. I would like to ask of your wisdom and guidance, all of you, in deciding on what is to become of the future of this city. There are many options at our disposal. I'm overseeing a myriad of things throughout the town and as a man of religious importance, given the history, the people have recommended it does not behoove me to take any sort of position of ruling in this town. It would be natural, of course, for the people to, without question, follow anyone of the existing bloodline." He looks both to Cassandra and to Percival. "Have you any thoughts on this matter? Any of you?"
Sam: Of our members, only this one human over here on his hands and knees, is the expendable one of our group.
Laura: Hey.
Matt: At which point, the strange, burly man on all fours, at this point, Brother-- who did not really notice, goes, "Is that your bear?" (laughter)
Laura: Maybe.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "Strange folk. "
Sam: I don't think any of us would-- well, Percy, if you'd like to stay and rule?
Liam: Freddy, this is everything you've worked for.
Sam: This is your birthright and you've earned it.
Taliesin: It was really not my birthright. I was not raised to rule.
Sam: But you would be a fantastic ruler.
Marisha: And also sometimes, those birthrights are thrust upon us.
Taliesin: I still have work to do outside the city. Ripley's still on the loose and knows far too much. And I feel more than a little responsible for her and what she may do. Honestly, Cassandra had a better upbringing than I did for this sort of work.
Matt: At which point, Cassandra pipes up and goes, "Well, I understand what you're saying, brother, but I'm still rediscovering who I am. If the people of this town knew what I've done, what I was responsible for all these years."
Marisha: You mean surviving being held hostage, surviving an ambush and being pelted with arrows?
Taliesin: They expect better of us, I know. I understand. We are held to a different standard. And it's difficult. Perhaps it's time for a council. Perhaps it's time for shared rule. There should always be a de Rolo in Whitestone, but perhaps we could share the weight.
Matt: "We could. I could."
Taliesin: Yennen, would you be comfortable sharing some of this burden?
Matt: He's taken aback and thinks. "Well, in the sense of a council that you're recommending, that would be certainly a more comfortable position for one such as myself. There are a number of community leaders that have really stepped up and shown their true quality. Yes, this could be done. We'd have to ask the people, of course, of the city and make sure that that would be all right with the folks, but I think given the way things have been, that shouldn't be too hard of a sell."
Laura: Do the de Rolos still stay in the giant castle? Or does that go to somebody else, then?
Taliesin: I think the de Rolos keep the castle, but I think we use the castle to--
Sam: Wait, would you be on this council? And who would they be counseling? Is there no superior primate? Is there no, there's no--
Matt: "I believe what he's suggesting is that we make decisions by council, by vote."
Sam: A triumvirate.
Matt: "If you will."
Taliesin: Quintumverate.
Sam: Oh, four people?
Taliesin: Five.
Travis: A flatterdesplat.
Sam: Flibbertigibbit.
Taliesin: A religious leader, someone from the farming communities, someone from the economic community, someone from the trade community--
Sam: Someone from the gnome community.
Taliesin: From the citizenry.
Sam: From the gnome community.
Taliesin: From some known community, yes.
Sam: I accept.
Taliesin: Interests will be thought of and there will always be a noble to be a tiebreaker when necessary and to judge from a place of (sighs) greater good.
Matt: "Cassandra?" She steps back at this point and she looks, her hands shaking visibly. She looks up to you and steps forward and reaches up and puts her hand to the side of your face and looks to you with a piercing honesty and fear. She, lower lip quivering, whispers to you. "Percy, can I be trusted? Do you trust me?"
Taliesin: All things considered, I think that you're more trustworthy than I am, at this point. Let's not forget that I was the one who let you down first. I'm going to give her one of the stones.
Laura: We were-- no, that was for the whole group! That was for the whole group, Percival.
Matt: "What is this?"
Sam: It's done.
Liam: Leave it alone.
Laura: (muffled) That's was going to save your fucking life later.
Taliesin: You're going to be so happy when we have instant access to the treasury.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: If anything bad should happen, if there's any need of quick retreat or quick communication, this is a one-way trip to us. And in return, this is a one-way trip for us to you, in case of emergency.
Matt: She clasps it in her hand, holds it to her chest.
Taliesin: You were born for this. You were instructed in how to do this, where I never was.
Laura: And now you've got four other people keeping an eye on you.
Matt: She smiles and closes her eyes. "What you say is true." She looks over at each member of your group and looks back to Keeper Yennen. "If it so pleases this intended council, It would be my honor to represent the de Rolo bloodline in keeping this town safe." Keeper goes, "Then so be it. I shall inquire with the people of this town. We will forge a council voted by the greater peoples of this place. And we shall restore Whitestone to its former glory. Very well. Go, enjoy the rest of your festival."
Sam: What was that cash prize? You had mentioned some sort of--
Matt: "Well, talk with Percival."
Taliesin: I will organize--
Laura: Oh, you have to give it to us? It has to come from you? That feels shady.
Taliesin: Let's not forget that within six hours of meeting each other, I ended up handing over an enormous sum of money to you.
Laura: It was actually 500 gold.
Taliesin: It was quite a bit of gold, if I recall. You have it written down, don't you? That's so endearing.
Liam: Is it? (laughter)
Matt: "Very well. Enjoy your festival, you've earned it. Go out, be merry. Let us all remember this time of year, the bonds that we carry, the loyalties that we hold to, and the heroism you stand for. Now go." At which point, the guards open the door and he steps out. The cold air rushes in, and you can see now, quite a bit of soft snowfall is now coming upon the center of the town.
Liam: I'm sorry, is there a washroom here? My sister's a little drunk and managed to yak on me a bit and I would really love to wash up a bit. Anywhere nearby?
Matt: He points off to the side. There's a small bucket of cold water that's set by the side.
Liam: Okay, I use it.
Matt: You manage to dampen your outfit to the point of getting it off, although it is a bit cold when you step outside now.
Laura: Can I follow him for a moment?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: I haven't talked to you very much lately.
Liam: No, you haven't.
Laura: You seem a bit off. Yeah. What's going on?
Liam: Nothing. I'm tired. We can relax for the first time in weeks.
Laura: I noticed your girlfriend isn't talking to you. Did you do something?
Liam: I will tell you just about everything, but I don't think I want to talk about that.
Laura: All right. I leave, as well.
Matt: All right. As the rest of the party joins, you all step out into the cold afternoon air. You are immediately greeted by the sound of music, laughter, and cheer. The rest of the festival continues on into dusk and you can't help but find the joy in the air infectious.
Marisha: Percy.
Taliesin: Yes?
Marisha: I actually have a present for you.
Taliesin: Really?
Marisha: Yeah, it comes with a story.
Taliesin: (laughs) All right.
Marisha: You're the only one I-- should we go get drinks? Maybe we should go get drinks first. Let's go get drinks and then I'll give you your present.
Taliesin: All right. In that case--
Marisha: Alcohol makes everything better.
Taliesin: Alcohol does make everything better.
Laura: Speaking of presents, even though you're being kind of a dick.
Liam: Wow, you ran fast to catch up with me.
Laura: I was going to buy you something, but then I realized sometimes old is better than new.
Sam: It's an old person. (laughter)
Matt: Vox Machina's favorite!
Marisha: Kill it!
Liam: Already dead.
Laura: You know what that is?
Matt: As you open the package, you see before you, a familiar belt of leather, with a coiled snake on the buckle.
Sam: How did you get that?!
Laura: I've got ways.
Sam: It was in Uriel's palace, wasn't it?
Laura: I'm a really good winker, if you haven't noticed.
Travis: She is.
Sam: Did you wink somebody for that? You slutty little thing.
Laura: (laughs)
Liam: Hello, Simon. (slithering sound) (laughter)
Sam: Oh no, it's just a real snake, it's biting you!
Travis: Revenge achieved!
Liam: I am too embarrassed to look her in the eye, and stare for a moment, but then finally, still not looking at her because she's fucking freaking me out, pull her into a hug and say, I love you, Stubby. I'm never going to leave your side, I'm always going to be there. You can always be a pain in the ass like you are. I love you. Always have, always will. Thank you.
Laura: Thank you. And then I slap him across the face.
Liam: What the fuck was that for?
Laura: I love you, too.
Marisha: When I was helping the farmers clean up, I had this strange moment where I was walking through the field and saw a dead raven.
Sam: Here it is.
Marisha: (laughs) More or less. It caught my attention and it made me think about the past several weeks, what we've been through and everything. Don't know-- who knows, it probably died, actually, in the rebellion. Maybe my ice storm killed it or something.
Taliesin: You're doing very well.
Marisha: Thanks. I was looking at it and it reminded me of everything and I feel like I was instantly trying to forget about everything because I don't want to remember. But we should. And I don't want to remember you the way you were. Because it was scary, and I didn't like it. I like you now. So I took the dead bird and cleaned it and kept its skull and put it in this box for you, as a reminder of what you could have become. What any of us could have become, really, at any time. Because we shouldn't forget.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: It's a little macabre and I would have bought things, but we're out of money.
Taliesin: I won't forget.
Marisha: I'm glad that's not you.
Taliesin: I can't even think of what the revenge felt like anymore. It's not... it doesn't weigh on me. Just regret.
Marisha: Regret?
Taliesin: Of how much better I could have been. Thank you. I will try to be better.
Marisha: No better than you could have been. There's still a lot to come, you know.
Taliesin: That's my plan.
Marisha: I think we all wish we were better than we could have been. Seeing that bird, I'm sure the bird felt the same way. But fuck it, he's dead now.
Taliesin: (laughs) You're strange, you know that?
Marisha: I know, I'm sorry.
Taliesin: No, we like it. Don't change.
Marisha: I'm glad you didn't change.
Sam: Grog, I got you an Amazon gift card. It's a forest called the Amazon. You can go there and get a gift.
Travis: Is it far?
Sam: Oh, really far, you'll never use it.
Travis: Re-gift!
Liam: Well guys, Vox Machina is now free and clear of all evil influence. (laughter)
Marisha: No shadowy demons. Feels good.
Travis: Feels good!
Matt: With that, Vox Machina continues to enjoy the joyous affair that is the Winter's Crest festival. Snowfall slowly covering the night sky as the sun comes to dusk. You withdraw to tell stories, sing songs, and drink merrily as the friends you are, looking forward to the next chapter in your adventure. And with that, we're going to go ahead and close the Winter's Crest episode of our adventure and leave you guys to the holiday break. We have a couple cool announcements to make. One, we had our winner earlier from our subscriber count, we hit a hundred. Our winner, if they haven't already announced it, is Saxecutioner.
Sam: Saxecutioner.
Matt: You'll get yourself a cool care package we're going to ship out to you.
Marisha: I think the Boonzy Arts candle is going out.
Matt: Yes!
Taliesin: Boonzy Arts candle. Scent-sy Saxecutioner.
Matt: Indeed, indeed. Let's see, we'll be gone for a few weeks until we come back for our next episode. We're on our holiday break, we're going to get our stuff taken care of, but we'll be back as soon as we can.
Laura: Do we know what date that is going to be at?
Liam: I mean, we come back next Thursday, right? Again, right? We play again every week. Every Thursday.
Zac: The seventh.
Matt: The seventh. And I think Zac has something you wanted to mention.
Taliesin: Did you have a thing, Zac?
Matt: Come on in, buddy.
Zac: So, I have fairly serious announcement, I guess. Hopefully our cameraman Ryan already left for Star Wars. And sorry to like pull the rug out from under you guys, but this is officially my last Critical Role in person. I have been hired to be CEO of a new media company in collaboration with Harebrained Schemes, up in Seattle. And I start on January first. So, this is my last one, so I just wanted to tell you guys, thank you. Thank you to the community. This has been one of the most amazing years of my life. It's been really cool to see what we've accomplished as a community, as a group, being cool on the internet and not dicks has been really cool. As an audience, like you guys and all of us and the amount of money we've been able to raise for charity. I can promise you that the channel's fine, the shows are fine. Lucas will be taking over the commander-in-chief position, so Lucas!
Marisha: Lucas!
Taliesin: Lucas!
Zac: Most people don't know--
Marisha: The man behind the curtain.
Zac: The man that runs the boards. So Lucas is getting a promotion.
Matt: Yes.
Zac: He's back there.
Laura: I see his legs. He's not walking this way.
Zac: He's not moving. Tomorrow, we're going to have a big party. It's going to be my last stream on Geek and Sundry. It's going to be a big party to celebrate. It'll be a lot of fun. We're going to do some dancing, we'll have some special guests coming by. And he's going to widen the camera just so he can get in the shot. We're also going to be knighting Lucas tomorrow night, so you guys should definitely tune in for that and watch us knight Lucas. We've been training him up, getting him ready. But again, thank you everyone for this amazing experience. You can follow me on Twitter if you want to know more about what's coming up. It'll be in a couple of months, we'll be launching that and I'll make sure to keep streaming on my channel and Lucas, of course, will continue the spirit. We'll still be in communication, everything's good. So you know. (laughter)
Zac: There's no hard feelings at all. I'm not dumping a load of shit on him and walking away.
Lucas: We'll figure it out.
Zac: We'll figure it out. Everybody, so thank you guys so much. I don't really have anything more to say other than thank you.
Marisha: Overlord, Overlord.
Travis: Overlord, Overlord.
Matt: I don't think you guys truly, as an audience understand exactly how much he's done to build this channel, the blood, sweat, and tears. I mean, both of them!
Zac: Literally, not figuratively.
Matt: Zac has made us all feel so comfortable and so excited to create this whole thing and has given so much of himself and put so much of himself into this and really, if you have the opportunity on Twitter or wherever else to follow him to his new job, let him know and feel the appreciation. He's awesome and an amazing human being and we're going to miss him terribly. But we're so happy and excited for your new ventures.
Zac: Yes! (Overlord theme)
Zac: I'm going to exit on that.
Laura: Huzzah to Zac!
All: Huzzah! Huzzah to Zac!
Matt: All righty.
Laura: It's still going.
Matt: There we go. Cross straight over. That song goes on for a while, too. There you go. All right, so. One more quick little exit here for you guys before we go on holiday break, we've had a special guest, came in today to check out the stream. Big fan of his work for a very long time and extremely proud he came to watch the episode and he's been live-tweeting throughout the evening, but he wants to come in and give a little holiday hello as well. We have to the cameras, come sit next to me in this chair, the illustrious Chris Perkins. (cheering)
Matt: It's everything I hoped it would be!
Liam: He's made of dice!
Chris perkins: What's on tap for next year?
Matt: Oh, you'll find out. It's all positive!
Chris perkins: Oh, really?
Matt: No.
Chris perkins: I have some suggestions.
Matt: Okay, we'll talk. (laughter)
Travis: Let us live!
Laura: He's going to kill us all!
Marisha: I will say, I feel like the DM power, the balance--
Laura: It's over 9000!
Marisha: It's over 9000!
Travis: It's like if suns meet.
Matt: Terrible things happen behind this.
Chris perkins: This is a real treat for me, thank you. Thank you everybody.
Matt: Thanks for coming, sincerely.
Chris perkins: No, this is magic.
Matt: Go ahead and roll this for a second. I'm just curious.
Chris perkins: Okay. Whoa.
Matt: Yeah, it's a fan-made die. All right, yeah. It's a 15. Oh wait. It's like a Sputnik die. So he rolled a 15. That's DM rolling right there. That's upper teens, yo.
Chris perkins: I rolled a 20.
Matt: Oh, there we go. See, there we go. Natural 20. Thank you so much for coming by, man. Seriously.
Chris perkins: I really appreciate it. It was great to hang out. Watch the magic happen. My favorite quote of the night was, "Don't be sad bear, be happy bear." (laughter)
Chris perkins: I'm going to use that one. Take that one back with me.
Matt: Go for it. So guys, next year, look forward to the next Dungeons and Dragons module, "Don't Be Sad Bear."
Travis: Yes!
Matt: I think it's for levels three to seven. It'll be really great. For those who aren't familiar with Chris, he's been a longtime dungeon master inspiration for a lot of us out there, who's put up a blog for a long time with a lot of great tips and tricks and discussions on what makes a great story, what makes running a great game. If you aren't following him right now, you should, on Twitter at--
Chris perkins: I don't know.
Travis: Oh no!
Chris perkins: @ChrisPerkinsDnD.
Matt: There you go. So, that should work out well. Thank you so much for coming.
Chris perkins: Thank you.
Matt: I appreciate that. And guys, happy holidays and happy New Year. We'll see you--
Zac: I forgot, I have one more quick announcement. I can't believe I forgot this. So, I was talking to the mods about it and some other people, maybe I told them. So I'm going to challenge you guys in the chat, my one last final challenge to you all. I am going to get a tattoo to commemorate my year at Geek and Sundry here. And I would like that to be of you guys's design. So I'm going to challenge you guys on the internet to tag me and a week from today, I will Periscope me getting a tattoo that someone in the chat room designed. Most likely a Snugglelord; it'd be cool if it was a Snugglelord.
Travis: I'm pretty sure I'm going to draw you a cock and balls.
Zac: Travis wants me to tattoo a cock and balls. So, as long as it can be a cock and balls with Travis's face.
Matt: I'll vote for that.
Travis: A big veiny triumphant bastard.
Marisha: How about Snugglelord riding Travis's cock and balls?
Zac: You've been challenged. You've been challenged. But I definitely want to do that to always have with me a little memory from this last year. I really honestly can't tell you guys how much this year meant to me and I want to make sure that I will never forget, even if my brain starts to fall away. I'll be like, oh look, Travis's--
Laura: Cock and balls.
Marisha: Cock and balls.
Travis: He was so good at Halo.
Matt: Yeah. (laughter)
Matt: Well, nothing could possibly go wrong with that. So go ahead and get your designs together, submit those and see if you could be responsible for designing a permanent piece of illustrious Overlord's body. Wow. I'm excited for that now.
Travis: Let's let the gates open.
Matt: Exactly. You guys, happy holidays.
Marisha: One more announcement. Sorry, I lied, one more.
Matt: This is like Lord of the Rings. This is Return of the King. It's got seven endings.
Marisha: Yeah, well, it's going to be a double feature. There will be a finale to the comic strip of the Winter's Crest festival, so keep checking the Geek and Sundry website because I believe it's going to go up on Christmas Eve, actually. So yeah, check it out.
Matt: Fantastic.
Marisha: Still more stuff.
Matt: All right. Anyone else?
Laura: Is there going to be a Critical Role marathon or something coming up soon?
Matt: Are you guys playing Critical Role over the holidays?
Lucas: At some point.
Matt: At some point, there'll be a marathon.
Taliesin: What a perfect time to get your friends hooked.
Matt: There you go, it'll be on the Twitter.
Zac: Lucas will let you know when it's up.
Matt: Lucas will let you know.
Marisha: There is a bajillion hours' worth.
Lucas: So, the plan is, the mods will be creating a Twitch playlist, so it won't show up as us being online. It will say we're offline, but you can come to our actual Twitch page and there will be marathons of each show individually. Critical Role will be later on. It's not going to be the first one that we marathon and that will be for probably a week and a half until I get into the studio and make actual playlists and you'll get that e-mail that says-- probably not Critical Role, but just an entire streaming marathon-- I don't even know. I'll figure it out. I've got a week and a half to figure it out, but there will be a playlist coming right up. Next Monday.
Laura: All right! Good announcement! Good job! (cheering)
Taliesin: Hail the new king!
Zac: First announcement!
Matt: They grow up so fast! (air horn sounds, laughter)
Matt: Awesome. Well, I guess then we'll relinquish you guys to watch your Star Wars.
Travis: Oh, actually--
Matt: (frustrated growl) I will smash your mini. I would never do that. I painted it. Far too long. All right, guys. Seriously, happy holidays, happy new year.
Laura: Happy holidays.
Taliesin: Happy Winter's Crest.
Marisha: Happy Winter's Crest.
Matt: Indeed. Bye guys.
Liam: I have a snake!
Travis: See you on the other side.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. Hate you, Liam. (laughter)
Travis: That was good! Really nice. Some good flavor on it.
Matt: You'll never know. So anyway! Welcome new folks. People who aren't new folks, welcome back. We have some announcements to get to real fast, then we'll jump into the actual story proper here. But, yeah! So, first and foremost, I wanted to give a big thanks and shout-out to Syrinscape, I mentioned them in last week's game, I put together my gaming playlists on their platform, and I'm going to be trying them out tonight to make sure everything works out cool, but their setup is fantastic and I'm really excited about being able to overlap audio, and things fade in and out. If you haven't checked it out, and you want to really amp up your tabletop gaming, it's phenomenal. But they're not paying for this, I'm really excited about it. So that's that, Syrinscape's awesome. Marisha, you want to talk about Signal Boost?
Marisha: Yeah! The first epil-- episode.
Laura: Epilsode!
Marisha: The first epil, of--
Taliesin: Epilay!
Marisha: Epil, epilay, epilogue. The first episode of Signal Boost went live on Tuesday. Go check it out on GeekandSundry.com. Go watch it, it's good fun. And you should go watch it so we don't get cancelled, and we'll keep making more episodes.
Liam: Is that how it works?
Marisha: Apparently!
Matt: Yeah, it's the weirdest thing.
Marisha: It's crazy.
Laura: They care about that?
Marisha: Yeah. And I talk about Rat Queens, in it, and--
Laura: Yes! I saw! It's so good, Marisha. It's really funny.
Taliesin: It's like ten minutes of your-- you have more minutes than two minutes, spend a couple of minutes.
Marisha: And I tell you about cool things that I like. That I picked out myself. My favorite things. Done.
Matt: Watch it. It's good. All right. Next thing I wanted to announce for you guys, tonight's donations, and all donations for the week, are going to be going, as opposed to 826 overall, are going to go to 826Seattle specifically, to Fearless Ideas, is what it's called there, their section up there, you can go to FearlessIdeas.org. This past week there was a terrible gas explosion in Seattle, you may have seen on the news, and it did a lot of damage to that vicinity, including Fearless Ideas, and they've had to cancel a bunch of their stuff, and they're trying to get things repaired and going. So all of our donations this evening will be going towards them and helping them get that effort taken care of. So think good thoughts and help out if you can. Let's see.
Travis: Love you, Seattle!
Marisha: Love you, Seattle!
Matt: 826. We've, next Friday, in Anaheim, at WonderCon, Friday night, we'll be doing a Critical Role panel, from 7:00 to 8:00pm, in Room 515A.
Laura: Wait, are we supposed to be at that?
Matt: Next Friday. Next Friday. But most of us will be there for that panel. We'll be doing a Q&A, answering questions, talking about the show, for all the folks that are local or coming to that convention in the Anaheim area of southern California. So, look forward to seeing you there, next Friday.
Laura: Yes, that's when we-- I can't say. I'll talk to you guys afterwards.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. We'll go over that. Mystery-- secret, I like it.
Laura: Secret, secret.
Matt: Wanted to give another shout-out to Dwarven Forge again, I mentioned them last week. You got to get a glimpse of some of the map stuff they gave us here at Critical Role to help improve our battle mats and scenarios on occasion. Their new Castle Builder Kickstarter is phenomenal, and if you're looking to do big structures and cool castle-based ramparts and parapets and everything, go check it out, it might be right up your alley.
Travis: So pretty.
Matt: So pretty. It's so pretty. Also, Laura, if you want to announce, we have some new merch up in the store!
Laura: Go check GeekandSundry.com, go to their store, right now, because they're up, and it's so awesome, and I can't wait for you guys to see, we have a Gilmore's Glorious Goods t-shirt. (cheering)
Laura: And I've been so excited about this shirt coming out, I can't wait to wear it, why aren't we wearing it right now?
Matt: (Gilmore voice) "Don't worry. Trust me, it's a fabulous shirt. Some would even say it's quite glorious."
Travis: Oh my god, oh my god.
Laura: As well as the Gilmore's Glorious Goods t-shirts, we also have exclusive Critical Role d20 rings, spinny rings. Those are limited, so if you get them, then snag them fast, because they're going to be gone.
Travis: We get one of those before they disappear, right?
Laura: I think they said they were going to set us aside some, they'd better.
Travis: They are. They're bitchin'. You spin it, the 20 is the Critical Role logo.
Laura: Why don't we have them right now?! At intermission, maybe we can grab them at intermission.
Travis: They're sick.
Matt: For those who don't know what those are, the d20 spin rings, or spin rings in general, they're actually two separate moving pieces with ball bearings on the inside, and you have all numbers one through 20 on the actual ring, and you can spin it with your finger, and it acts like a die roll!
Laura: And the d20, when you crit succeed, it's a Critical Role logo. Just putting that out there.
Travis: You can do all your life decisions based off a ring.
Matt: What could possibly go wrong?
Liam: You still can die from them, though, just to be clear.
Taliesin: Roll a one.
Marisha: And we are not held responsible if that happens.
Travis: You go straight to Craven Edge.
Liam: It's appropriately called a "die."
Laura: Whatever.
Matt: Liam!
Liam: Yeah?
Matt: You wanted to--
Liam: Sure, I could talk about a couple of things. Hey, a quick shout-out for our neighbor, Ivan van Norman's Kickstarter, The ABCs of RPGs, has three days left. I backed it immediately, because I like D&D and I have kids, and you put those two things together and good things happen. So that's good, three days left. Also, hey, if you like to put your dice in boxes, I tell you what. Wyrmwood Gaming make beautiful boxes, and if you go over to their site and you use the code critrole.
All: Crit. Role.
Liam: There it is. You get free shipping, they're beautiful, they have all different kinds of woods to put your dice inside. Is there anything else? Oh, yeah! Oh, okay. Yeah, hey, some of us, not all of us, are going to be going up to San Fran later this month to make appearances on GameSpot's show The Lobby for a couple of segments, and then, also then hopping over to hang with the guys at Kinda Funny to play D&D.
Laura: Those guys are stupid.
Matt: Which, a few of us will be running a quick little one-shot game I'll be running with the aid of one of their local gentlemen. And it should be a ridiculously ridiculous time! And it'll be a lot of fun.
Liam: And I'm curious to see, because there's going to be two DMs, in sort of a Batman and Robin-type relationship kind of thing?
Matt: Oh yeah. We got plans. I've co-DM'd before, it can be very interesting. And very chaotic. I'm excited.
Travis: Going to kill everybody.
Matt: Probably.
Laura: This has nothing to do with announcements, but I want to only roll green dice tonight. For Saint Patrick's Day.
Marisha: That's a good idea, I've got a set of green dice. I'll get them out. Sure.
Travis: That's stupid. I have gray-ass dice and a blue one.
Marisha: Got to get them all out.
Matt: This is technically light green, guys, by the way, just so you're aware. Cool. Just making sure we're all cool on that.
Travis: Plus the underwear you're wearing.
Matt: Shh, that's just for you.
Liam: Travis and I are wearing green snake shirts, because (Irish accent) Saint Patrick drove the snakes out of Ireland, into Burbank.
Matt: Drove the Slytherin from Ireland. He got rid of them all.
Travis: Yeah. I took the Floo network.
Marisha: And I got this in Ireland, so it counts.
Laura: It kind of counts, Marisha.
Marisha: It counts.
Liam: (Irish accent) It's fucking Irish wool!
Marisha: And this is green.
Travis: Yeah, made from real Irish cats.
Matt: They are the best, aren't they? Last but not least, unless anyone else has any other announcements to make, anything else?
Taliesin: Oh! I got a quick one, Book of Murder came out today, so you can hear me do a very weird accent, it's great. So. Yes. Very weird accent.
Matt: And last, next week, we'll have a special guest joining us for an episode, a new guest, the intrepid Nerdist himself, Chris Hardwick, will be coming in for a game next week. (cheering)
Matt: Oh, I'm excited! We made his character this past Monday, and it should be a lot of fun. He's actually fun to game with. We've played D&D a couple times, and he'll be a good addition to the team for his brief stop by. So next week, come check him out on our show!
Travis: Uh-oh, what does that mean?
Matt: So thanks for coming, Chris. I don't know, it'll be fun.
Taliesin: Cleric, is what it means.
Matt: Hoping every guest is a cleric. Just in case.
Travis: Save us! From ourselves.
Matt: All right, then. Without further ado, unless you guys have anything else, we'll go ahead and hop into a quick synopsis of where we are in Critical Role.
Liam: Shit. Help. Help. Help. Help.
Matt: Sam will be here shortly, guys, don't freak out. He's dealing with children and traffic.
Taliesin: Not at the same time.
Marisha: Damn it, you beat me to it. I was going to say those two aren't mutually exclusive. Children and traffic.
Matt: So. Where we left off. The party of Vox Machina, having to deal with the current terrible danger of the Chroma Conclave, a collection of very dangerous dragons that have torn through the entire Tal'Dorei countryside, have then gone on this quest to collect allies, and find these items called the Vestiges of Divergence, these artifacts of ancient wars that carry great power and seem to be the best way you could prepare yourselves for going up against these terrifyingly powerful entities. In searching for this, you went and made your way to Vasselheim, where you reacquired and reestablished friendships with Zahra and Kashaw, two allies from previous instalments of our wondrous adventure, as well as getting Lady Kima on loan from the Platinum Sanctuary of Bahamut, and you all went to seek the first bit of information you discovered about one of these vestiges, not too far from Vasselheim. The champion of the Raven Queen's armor that had been entombed within this temple that had sunken beneath a lake. After traveling to this lake, finding your way through this subterranean, watery location, you found the location of the tomb, upon which, a series of fish creatures, called kuo-toa, had seemingly been worshiping another denizen of this temple, a rather strange slime-covered beholder, that then surprised the party. The battle hard-fought, you came out victorious, and upon going to retrieve your spoils, a trap was set off in the tomb, dodged by one, survived by a bear, and claimed the life of our beloved Vex'ahlia. After a resurrection ritual attempted by Kashaw, the party helping, they were successful in bringing her soul back from the other side, restoring her to life, and the party then, figuring out what their next step in their journey was, took their new allies, via Keyleth's Teleportation via Plants spell, back to Whitestone, which seems to be building as this defensive bastion, this currently not on the radar of the Conclave location that needs defenses, and a good place to keep your allies at the time. And that was where we left off, as you guys had just stepped back into Whitestone.
Laura: We haven't actually slept yet, then.
Matt: Nope!
Laura: It's late.
Marisha: What time is it here?
Matt: I'd say through the evening's travels-- Well, you guys slept all night the night before you went to the temple, the temple's probably been--
Marisha: That's true, we did sleep, actually, we camped out.
Laura: We did?
Marisha: Remember? You talked to Zahra, and I talked to Kash? Then we slept.
Matt: Yeah, you guys did camp out.
Laura: Oh. I didn't know if we camped, I thought we talked.
Matt: You talked.
Marisha: We at least chilled. I don't know.
Matt: Regardless. You found your way to Whitestone. We'll say for the sake of the current setting, you've come in in a rather overcast mid-afternoon in Whitestone, you may have spent some time there gathering yourselves as your allies scope out their new surroundings, the people of Whitestone accepting you as you arrive, you can always see people walking by and catching a glance at the group of heroes known as Vox Machina that helped liberate them from the oppressive Briarwoods not long ago.
Taliesin: Keep crawling out of trees.
Marisha: It's always weird. Not crawling out of trees, that people like us.
Travis: Should we inspect our spoils?
Taliesin: I was going to say, we should take the armor and the necklace to the castle and have it inspected.
Laura: Is Lady Allura here?
Matt: Kima, who is with you, is like, "Is she?"
Laura: No. Well, she was on her way to Westruun, and we haven't heard from her yet.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: "Haven't heard from her since-- You say Westruun was under attack as well?"
Laura: Yes, but she knew it. She was going in secret.
Matt: "That prideful woman." She slings her hammer off her shoulder and slams it to the ground and says, "Well. If she doesn't arrive in the next few hours, I'm going to gather a party and we're going to go to Westruun and find her."
Travis: Yeah!
Marisha: Kima-- Wait, what? Why?
Laura: Wait, there's a dragon there, Kima, a very large one, and she was being very, very stealthy--
Matt: Her hammer slams into her metallic armor, and she goes, "I've a much bigger dragon backing me up." And she looks up to the sky for a second and grins.
Travis: Lady Kima don't give a fuck.
Laura: We'll wait, Kima.
Matt: (frustrated sigh)
Laura: Going in loud will only cause more trouble.
Matt: "I'll wait a few days."
Laura: She should be here by then.
Marisha: I can always attempt to scry, and see if I can check in on her.
Matt: "Okay. Not a bad idea."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "Okay. I need a drink."
Marisha: Let's get somewhere safe.
Matt: She charges off, looking for the nearest tavern.
Marisha: Here, I guess. I don't know. I forget it's not overrun by vampires, I'm sorry. Sorry, I forgot; it's all right now.
Laura: Maybe somewhere safe, like right here--
Marisha: Like right here, sorry, there's a lot going on.
Matt: Zahra and Kashaw looking around expectantly as you continue this conversation. Kash crosses his arms, goes, "Great place. There's a lot of white." Of which Zahra comes and steps over and is like, "Don't worry, darling. (laughter) So, sleeping arrangements, I hope?"
Laura: Yes, the castle.
Taliesin: We'll be putting you up in the castle.
Matt: "That's what I like to hear. All right. To the castle, Kash?" "Sure. It's better than, well, it's better than anything. Let's go for the castle." And they both make their way towards Whitestone Castle, to find a comfortable place to get themselves situated in their new surroundings.
Laura: So we're healed up, we are healed, we are not running the risk of dying at any moment, because we've been healed.
Matt: What is that? What is that blur of green?
Travis: It's a fucking leprechaun, get it!
Sam: Sorry, sorry, sorry.
Liam: You should be.
Marisha: Your shirt, is that new? Because I love it so much.
Sam: Thanks! But I'm also wearing a tie because it's a special night.
Laura: Right. It's a special occasion.
Sam: (sighs) So, is Allura dead? (laughter)
Travis: Kima just left, so--
Laura: She's on her way to a tavern. Kima's drinking it up. Grog! Kima's drinking it up.
Marisha: Are we heading to a tavern?
Taliesin: We're heading to the castle. We're going to talk to friends, we're going to take a look at--
Travis: Corpse armor, hello.
Marisha: Oh, corpse armor.
Travis: Yeah. You know, the thing that almost killed our friend over here?
Laura: It did kill me. According to you.
Taliesin: It-- yes.
Travis: Yeah, but, I mean, you're here, so you didn't die. But you did. But you didn't. But you did. And then you didn't.
Laura: Thanks, Grog.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All right, so. You guys all heading to the castle?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You head to the castle. Cassandra isn't there at the moment, but Keeper Yennen is currently there with a few other members of the makeshift council you guys put together towards the end. One of the heads of the entire farming establishment here in Whitestone is with them, and they're having a conversation. As Zahra and Kashaw burst in first, he's like, "I'm sorry, we're not currently taking visitors, could you-- Oh. Friends of yours, I presume?"
Taliesin: Good friends.
Laura: Helpers, actually. They're going to be here for a while. Hopefully.
Matt: "Gracious. Oh, I see you yourself carry the vestments of a man of the cloth. Who brings your power this day?" Kashaw gives him a look and goes, "You don't even want to know, buddy." Walks past him.
Taliesin: That was a really good Kashaw.
Matt: "Very well! I assume they're staying here as well."
Taliesin: Yes. We appreciate it greatly.
Matt: "They'll be taken care of, Percival."
Taliesin: They will be well worth your time. We also have something that needs a bit of study. We found something. We found two objects of power that we think may help us turn the table against the dragons.
Laura: Two objects?
Matt: "This is good news."
Taliesin: Two objects.
Laura: What was the second?
Taliesin: There was a necklace.
Laura: There was?
Taliesin: There was.
Sam: You were dead.
Laura: Oh. I must have missed it because I was dead. That's right.
Matt: "Dead?!"
Taliesin: It's been a very long day.
Sam: Mostly dead.
Marisha: Be very careful when handling this armor, is what we're trying to say.
Travis: Or don't handle it, and we'll take care of it.
Matt: "So, the armor is what killed you?"
Laura: No, actually, a trap that Percival set off is what killed me.
Taliesin: Yes, the--
Liam: What?
Taliesin: -- trap was a bit-- it was a bit, ah-- there was a trap. And it was well-protected.
Liam: What?
Laura: What, what, what? What?
Taliesin: Yes, what.
Laura: What?
Travis: (mutters) He didn't know that.
Laura: What? So these Vestiges.
Matt: "Vestiges."
Laura: These leathers, these things.
Matt: "Um--" And he puts a couple of small, armored, like, studded-leather gloves on and has to carefully reach out for the vestments as you hand them. And he grabs them. "Give me a bit of time with them, perhaps, I need to clarify what this enchantment may be. Do you mind staying around, just in case?"
Taliesin: Not at all.
Matt: "Don't feel strange that I don't trust this, but, based on your history with it, I would like a little backup." So, he carries you off down the far hallway, you didn't get this far into Whitestone when you initially came through, but towards the back there was a small study area converted into a research establishment largely set up for the ziggurat beneath the city. He clears off an area of the table and sets this down. And he takes some time working with the vestments before he eventually, and it's this awkward quiet of hearing him mutter to himself and bring out a symbol and bring over a minor enchantment to reveal information, that tearing into the divinity, the divine magic that is granted to him, before he says, "This carries the mark of the Raven Queen, a very strong mark. I've not seen power like this in but an object."
Laura: It was worn by one of her champions. The great Purvan.
Matt: "That's a strange name."
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: "Regardless, it appears that this armor does help fortify one's defenses from any sort of physical damage, as well as give you a chance of surviving even the most dangerous of near-death experiences. It also grants a fluid resistance to the elements. Here." And he hands it over, and-- who would like to take this? Item card to--
Travis: Well, you died for it, you--
Laura: I think I like it, but I'll just look at it.
Marisha: It's leather?
Laura: It's leather.
Matt: So, to give you the specifics on it, it's plus two to AC. Magical on top of the studded leather armor. Plus two enchantment, beyond just the studded leather armor. It does give you advantage on death saving throws.
Sam: You'll need that.
Matt: As it is called the Deathwalker's Ward, and once per short rest, you can set it to be resistant to one of the five types of damage.
Laura: You choose which one.
Matt: You choose. You can change it. You can leave it all on one, but if you want to change it during a short rest, you can shift it from fire or cold, or lightning--
Travis: Acid, or necrotic.
Sam: You're, like, indestructible now!
Marisha: Do you have fancy leather armor right now? What does your armor do right now? Anything?
Liam: It's acid-resistant.
Laura: My armor's acid-resistant, I sort of stole it from my brother. Do you want your acid-resistant armor back, then?
Liam: Whatever you want, Vex'ahlia.
Laura: He's in such a sour mood lately.
Travis: Well, yeah. Well, what about the necklace?
Matt: "The necklace as well?"
Taliesin: I hand it over.
Matt: He takes it, and he goes, "Well, the chain on this necklace is not actually part of the enchantment, it's merely to hold the crystal itself. The crystal is the item of particular interest here, this-- oh, wait a minute." He takes it and he scans over the table and pulls up a jeweler's eyepiece and inspects it closely. "There's something inside this gem."
Travis: Uh-oh.
Marisha: (groans) Not again.
Laura: What is it?
Marisha: Why do things like living in gems? It can't be comfortable.
Travis: It might be a worm.
Laura: It's like tequila.
Matt: "I can't actually ascertain the nature of whatever being is encased within this, but--"
Laura: There's a being, it's a being?
Marisha: Encased.
Laura: Is it a soul gem?
Marisha: Like something put it in there.
Matt: He takes a moment and concentrates on his holy symbol of Pelor, and you can see as he puts aside the eyepiece, his eyes glaze over with a grayish, frosted white color, at which point he inspects the gem very closely, and there's this slight vibration in the air around him. As soon as it fades about a minute later, he pulls back and goes, "This is referred to as the Raven's Slumber. It's actually a small gateway to a tiny pocket-plane."
Sam: A pocket-plane?
Marisha: Ooh.
Matt: "It can contain one creature. You have to contact whatever it was, and it can't be too big, but it can essentially contain something indefinitely within this."
Laura: But something's already in there?
Matt: "Something is already in this."
Travis: Awesome.
Sam: Something that we can summon?
Marisha: Any way we can find out what it possibly is before we summon it?
Matt: "Unfortunately, I do not have that capability."
Laura: It was buried with--
Sam: I'll take that.
Laura: Oh, that's really smart to give to Scanlan.
Travis: Well, like, you said "not too big" though, right?
Matt: "The confines of the space, at least, as part of the enchantment, seem rather small. A bit larger than you, maybe, but not much more than that."
Travis: Right, right, okay.
Matt: "Here."
Travis: Please.
Marisha: Well, does it change size?
Laura: This is maybe the worst thing that Scanlan's ever held outside of that gun that you had, Percy.
Travis: What are you talking about? Can we take it in the woods, open it up, and if it sucks we kill it, and if not, we've got a new pet.
Marisha: We don't even know how to open it up! Do we know how to open it up?
Travis: Oh, we will find a way.
Laura: It was buried with the Raven Queen's champion, I mean, it could be incredibly dangerous. Or it could be incredibly good, and he trapped it, and they're bad, right?
Liam: The same could be said about your new pajamas.
Laura: They are so beautiful. I do like feathers.
Travis: What do they smell like?
Laura: (sniffs) Like (sniffs) must and mold. And birds, really.
Travis: (laughing) And birds? Eesh.
Matt: "So, is that all you require of me?"
Travis: I require Percy to tell us what the fuck's up with the necklace he's reading about.
Taliesin: Just what he said.
Laura: Yeah, he already told us about it.
Sam: Once we release whatever is inside of it, we can use this necklace as a weapon, to--
Taliesin: It's a cage.
Sam: To trap people.
Marisha: Hang on, okay. Let's think about this. What do we remember from the great Purvan's story?
Laura: Well, let me look at my book?
Marisha: What did he fight?
Sam: I just remember that Purvan's story touched me. Touched me in inappropriate ways.
Travis: (laughing) No, no, no.
Laura: You know what I like about this particular piece of paper is that you made it on cardstock so it's extra special instead of the regular paper.
Matt: It's legendary.
Taliesin: Legendary cardstock.
Marisha: Can we get purple cardstock up in here?
Laura: I'm talking to Matt, bitches. Okay. I forgot what I was going to say-- Oh, my book! My 30-gold book! Does it say anything about what Purvan fought?
Matt: All right! You read through. There were many, many things throughout the war that were fought: entities from the Nine Hells, there was a faction of the Abyss that came in as a third bit of evil in this whole conflict; and while not in alliance against the other forces of chaos, there were many forces of chaos lashing out at what was nearby. So the Champion's-- there was no specific entity that was his chosen, or at least, what you can ascertain to be a specific being of hatred, although it does speak of Purvan, the Champion of the Raven Queen, keeping with him an ally.
Laura: Like Trinket.
Matt: It doesn't say the nature of the ally, it just says the dangerous and respected Galdric.
Laura: (gasps) Galdric.
Taliesin: Well, there are some options here.
Laura: What?
Taliesin: No, that won't work, damn it.
Travis: Well, say it, come on.
Taliesin: Well, I was thinking we could find a safe place, surround it, let it out, and if it's dangerous, take care of it. We could even take it down into the pits beneath the castle so that if it's a magical creature, it would be harmless. Except I don't know if we could actually release it down there. I don't know--
Laura: Yeah, what if it touches the thing, and it--
Sam: There's also magic resistance down there.
Taliesin: Yeah, which means it wouldn't work in the first place.
Marisha: What if he's friendly? I mean, he talks about being an ally.
Taliesin: It might be an ally.
Marisha: Well then, wouldn't we want to save it?
Laura: An ally of Purvan! An ally of Purvan's!
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Is Purvan a good guy?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: I thought the Raven Queen was not good!
Taliesin: No, the Raven Queen--
Marisha: She's like-- neutral.
Taliesin: Can I make a roll for this?
Matt: Make a religion check.
Taliesin: Okay, thank you. Nope, nope, it's St. Patty's Day.
Travis: Don't kill anybody.
Laura: Yeah, with these green dice.
Taliesin: Religion or history?
Matt: Religion.
Travis: Religion.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: 11. The general essence of the Raven Queen she is both loved and feared in equal parts. She does not lord over the afterlife, the underworld, whatever you may call it-- she lords over the moment and the transition of death, which is largely considered neither a good nor evil, just a natural force. It could be accepted either way. Many men fear it, and fear her for that reason, and there are those that instead embrace it as the inevitable. As to the true nature of her intent, no one really knows. It's part of her mystique.
Travis: So, like, even if we let out the glorious Ball-lick or whatever his name is, like, if he's bad, we can't really put him back in, right?
Taliesin: No, we actually can. Actually, we can put him back in.
Travis: What, we touch him with it and he goes back in?
Sam: Correct.
Matt: After a saving throw.
Marisha: Maybe we should save him and release him when he'll be valuable to us?
Taliesin: So would a trap. We could also trap other creatures--
Laura: It's like a Pok Ball! Right? It's like a Pokmon?
Taliesin: Yes, it's exactly like a Pok Ball.
Marisha: Who knows if he'll go back in willingly?
Taliesin: You don't have to go in willingly, that's sort of the point.
Matt: I guess you could technically use it that way, yeah.
Marisha: But wouldn't we rather be friendly with him than him be angry at us the next time we release him?
Taliesin: I'm more excited about the idea of carrying around an empty trap.
Marisha: But we could win both. But we could have a trap and a friend.
Liam: I think Percy is right that we should let it out now because it's a question mark, no matter what. Whatever, it's all theories. We don't know what we're getting into, and better that it pop out now, on its own, and not while we're facing a fucking beholder.
Laura: I think we should do it in the forest outside of Vasselheim.
Taliesin: Or the forest outside of Whitestone.
Sam: Vasselheim? We're here.
Marisha: Why don't we try and do a little bit more research on Galdric first?
Sam: That would be too careful.
Travis: Yeah, come on. Come on.
Sam: Vex! Just open it!
Liam: Percival. Are there any libraries here?
Taliesin: Not really, anymore.
Liam: What about a personal collection in your family?
Taliesin: Didn't they ravage most of our collection?
Matt: Elements have been ravaged. Elements of family history have been destroyed so that there couldn't be large connections, or the end of the bloodline itself being too prominently displayed within the castle itself. There is still a library there, though from your knowledge-- and you've read through most of those books growing up-- a lot of them are loose history books; a lot of them are more encyclopedia-like, general knowledge--
Taliesin: She wasn't a revered deity in this part of the world, we don't have a lot--
Laura: All right, yeah, let's do it. Woods!
Travis: Woods! Woods! Woods!
Taliesin: Woods, or Vasselheim, that's actually not a bad idea to get far away from Whitestone.
Travis: No, because then somebody else'll come along and kill it.
Sam: Plus they don't like magic.
Taliesin: This is sort of our secret, and we should perhaps keep this--
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Well, we were going to go take a look at--
Marisha: (muffled) What if--
Travis: You got shit in your mouth.
Marisha: We g-- mm, sorry. Little bit of saliva.
Liam: Goodberries?
Marisha: Snacks. We go to those goliath caves, right outside of Whitestone, that were abandoned.
Travis: Stone giant caves?
Marisha: Those!
Travis: Shit. Made me feel like I had to poop for a second, there. Goliath caves, fuck.
Marisha: Sorry! I just remembered you recognized them. They were empty, and abandoned, we could go there.
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: Is that close to your family?
Travis: Nope.
Marisha: No, we saw it on the way into Whitestone.
Taliesin: It's just a couple hours away, correct?
Laura: Oh.
Matt: It's, I'd say roughly three, three and a half hours northwest of here.
Laura: Let's do it!
Matt: Yeah, it's where the forest of the Alabaster Sierras ends and the actual Alabaster Sierra mountain range begins, is where that transitions.
Taliesin: We can take a day and do this.
Laura: All right, sure. Let's do it. All right. What do you think? Good idea? Good idea?
Liam: Sure, yes, yes, yes, Keyleth had a good idea, yes.
Matt: All right. So.
Laura: We're healed, yes?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: We're healed, right? Did we sleep? Do we need to sleep?
Liam: I thought we rested before we went down under the water, though--
Laura: No, we did, we didn't rest since then.
Liam: I don't remember resting afterwards. And I was there.
Travis: I don't either. I remember I peed on a lake, and then we went under it.
Matt: Yeah, I think you guys decided instead of resting to come to rest here in Whitestone.
Laura: Yeah, we need to sleep, y'all!
Taliesin: Let's take a sleep, and we'll do it in the morning.
Travis: What time is it, about?
Matt: I'd say by now, with as much time as you spent in the temple, from waking up in the morning, it's getting four in the afternoon, five in the afternoon. The sun's starting to come down, so.
Laura: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself.
Sam: Aren't we going to sleep?
Laura: But it's four in the afternoon! There's other things to do today.
Marisha: Like drink?
Laura: Like find out how Gilmore's doing and see Pike.
Marisha: And I should probably scry and check in on Allura, right?
Taliesin: I've got some work to do.
Matt: It's up to you guys. Yeah, and you're starting to push towards the bottom of your ammunition stack anyway, Percy.
Taliesin: I need to, yeah, to do a little-- and I've got a little thing I want to work on.
Matt: Cool. All right, so, who's doing what first?
Taliesin: I'm going to take Vax aside very quickly.
Travis: Let's do that first!
Taliesin: I had a careless moment, and I apologize. And you're the first apology I'm putting forward. I don't know if I would have done anything different, but I hope you know that I would've never forgiven myself.
Liam: What're you talking about?
Taliesin: I rushed in and triggered the trap that almost killed your sister.
Liam: That killed my sister.
Taliesin: I can't say that.
Liam: What do you mean?
Taliesin: I was careless.
Liam: Well, what happened, Percival?
Taliesin: I felt the danger had passed, and I moved too quickly, and opened the casket without thinking. That's all. I just didn't think.
Liam: You just opened it? Just like that?
Taliesin: I was tired, wasn't thinking. Sometimes we move too quickly. But I want you to know that it would've-- I'm very glad that she's alive, because I don't think I could have lived with myself.
Liam: All right. Could you do me a favor?
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: In the future-- If there is anything that your little heart desires inside of a box-- In the future, could you check with my sister or myself first?
Taliesin: That's the hope, yes. That was more of a lesson than I was hoping for. Thankfully not too much of one.
Liam: Well--
Taliesin: And none of us are beyond mistakes, but... that is a mistake that I am going to be thinking about for a very long time. We are going into dangerous territory, and we all have to think a little bit more. And she especially, I-- I couldn't--
Liam: Well listen, Percy. We are not playing a game.
Taliesin: No.
Liam: And we will all make mistakes, and I wager I will make my fair share. I've little doubt. And Percival, I want to apologize. I'm sorry. But-- And I punch him in his know-it-all fucking mouth.
Matt: Do you attempt to move out of the way, or take it?
Taliesin: Yeah, let's take it.
Matt: All right. (impact sound) Decks you square in the-- for as hefty as a punch it was? Doesn't hurt quite as much as you expected. But it's not the physical pain that hurts, more than the action and the knowledge that there are more repercussions to your rash decision than even you initially anticipated.
Liam: Goodnight, Percival.
Taliesin: Goodnight, Vax.
Sam: It's four in the afternoon! (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to work. I'm going into my studio.
Matt: All right, who else wants to do something?
Marisha: Where'd Kima go?
Matt: Kima is actually-- she's begun day-drinking into the night! So yeah, she's currently by herself in one of the few functional taverns in Whitestone. It's fairly empty at the moment, especially at this hour as the sun slowly sets. She's not heavy drinking but she's definitely nursing a tankard and quietly contemplating as she sits at the edge of the bar with her hands around the tankard. She's staring at her reflection as she spins it slowly on the wood. You can hear it (scuffing) on the woodgrain.
Marisha: Anyone else want to go to the--
Laura: I'm going with you, yeah.
Matt: There's like a few other random patrons, but no one catches your eye. No one specifically.
Sam: I'll come, too. Well, actually, wait. Grog, what're you doing?
Travis: Nothing yet.
Sam: I'm with Grog.
Matt: Okay. So the two of you, into the tavern-- she doesn't notice you guys.
Marisha: I go up and put my hand on her shoulder.
Matt: "Keyleth!"
Marisha: Hey! How's it going?
Matt: "Better."
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: I lean up against the bar, next to you guys.
Marisha: Want to check in on Allura?
Matt: "Let's do it."
Marisha: Is there an empty room around here?
Matt: She looks over to the barkeep. You all stare over and the barkeep is currently there like wiping down the bar section. "For how long?"
Laura: For a couple hours.
Marisha: Doesn't need to be that long.
Matt: "Two silver?"
Laura: We saved your life? And the entire town.
Matt: "You are fine to use it as you please for the remainder of the afternoon. Just don't mess it up, please."
Marisha: Sure. We'll try really hard to find better things to do with our time. Okay.
Matt: All right, you make your way up and the place is fairly vacant, there are a couple of rooms that are currently partially-- the doors are ajar and you hear voices in there, and you recognize it's a couple of the refugees that you guys brought over from your keep, currently holed up in this tavern. An inn floor on the second floor. But there are a number of open rooms right now that you could go ahead and step into for use.
Marisha: Just pick one.
Matt: Okay. So. Do you want to go ahead and attempt a Scry ritual?
Marisha: Yes!
Matt: Focusing on...?
Marisha: The flower that I gave her before we left.
Laura: Ooh, good call.
Matt: All right, so. As you all sit down, Kima sitting across from you, arms closed. She looks at you intensely with this really direct glare, waiting for some sort of sign of an answer or information. As you complete the ritual preparation of the scrying, your vision transcends your form, jettisoned through the ceiling and into the clouds. Clouds rush past, you can feel the wind pushing across your face, your hair, and as the clouds part you see, below, you see Westruun. And from Westruun you can see most of the city, as you recall, and a large portion of it currently looks toppled-over and pushed into ruin. There are no longer burning black clouds, but white smoke, long after a fire or some sort of an impact, lazily drifting off some of those ruins. It focuses even closer, and you see very little populace in the streets. Most everyone's either indoors or not visible at the moment. Your vision clicks in once again, and you can see currently some sort of dark room hidden in Westruun. You see, for a brief instant, a flicker of light, and you see Drake Thunderbrand and Allura both gathering a few small books under their arms, silently waiting, quietly. You hear (impact sounds) some heavy footfalls above. They both just stay quiet, stay quiet. Allura stays still for a moment. She looks over at Drake. They both take hands and then (whoosh) convert into that same energy form you saw that jettisoned out of Greyskull Keep, that echoes down a long hallway that you previously didn't see was attached to this room. It leads to a stone spiral staircase that goes upward before these two dual sparks travel through the small crack between where the edge of a trap door and a wooden floor is as the sparks course upward into the now-setting sun. You can see amongst the sparks the mostly collapsed rubble of the Cobalt Reserve, the large library in the center of Westruun. You can see dozens of corpses that have been largely dissolved. You can see what remnants of their bodies have been eaten away by some sort of caustic material, their arms and fingers tightened up as the muscles pull into this horrible, gnarled visage of what once were the living residents of Westruun. You do see, as the spark comes to a stop for a second in its movement, and you hear briefly overhead (wingbeats) and you see rush overhead, wings fully spread, the black dragon that you had briefly encountered in Emon streak upward, roaring loudly, towards Gatshadow, the tall, dark spire mountain just north of Westruun. (whoosh) And as it heads up there, the sparks (electric sound) continue their trek through the streets, and at that point the ritual fades, its vision unable to maintain its focus. Your vision is pulled back up into the clouds and then thrust back into your current position and with a shock you find yourself back in the tavern.
Laura: What did you see? Is she all right?
Marisha: She's alive, her and Drake both are alive.
Matt: "Good. Where are they going?"
Marisha: They're at the Cobalt Reserve, which is in ruins, as well as the rest of Westruun.
Laura: Did you see the dragon?
Marisha: Yes, the black dragon is there. Looks like he's taken up residence in the black spire-- tower. What was it called?
Laura: Gatshadow?
Marisha: That one.
Marisha: Gatshadow. Allura--
Laura: Could you communicate with her when you scry? I don't know how it works.
Marisha: No, I can just look in and see.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: She was grabbing the last few important tomes, remnants left from the Cobalt Library, I mean, Reserve.
Matt: "They staying in Westruun?"
Marisha: It didn't look like it.
Matt: "Where are they going?"
Marisha: I don't know, I didn't see.
Matt: "Did you talk about where you--"
Laura: We left word. And told her we were coming here.
Matt: "Here to Whitestone?"
Laura: Yes. If you wait, she'll be here.
Matt: "Who else is coming?"
Laura: Drake.
Matt: "Drake. Anybody else on the Council coming?"
Sam: We brought some Council members, right? Were any among our--
Matt: You're not there, you're with Grog.
Sam: Oh, that's right, I'm sorry, oh, I'm not there! (laughter)
Sam: So, Grog! Want to play some bocce ball? (laughter)
Marisha: I don't know who all's coming.
Laura: Uriel.
Matt: "Dead? Well, that's great. That's fantastic. What about the rest?"
Marisha: His wife and children are here.
Matt: "Here, okay."
Marisha: As well as Gilmore.
Laura: Gilmore's Glorious Goods.
Matt: "Right, right."
Laura: Wonderful place to buy all sorts of products, if it were still... standing.
Matt: "Huh. I've only heard things, I've not met this 'Gilmore'."
Marisha: You haven't met Gilmore!? Man, I just assume everyone knows each other.
Matt: "Anybody else? Tofor?"
Laura: Yes, maybe...? Yes, Tofor...?
Marisha: He might have... been... slain...?
Laura: Which one is Tofor?
Marisha: She's the dragonborn--
Laura: Yes, Tofor-- they did, I think Tofor is-- definitely maybe here.
Matt: Last you heard, two Council members that were confirmed still alive by Gilmore when you found him-- or, confirmed by Uriel's wife and family-- thank you, sorry, were Tofor and Asum.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: So both were two of the ones that were saved by Gilmore, and then once he was too wounded to continue, they left to seek for survivors in Emon. That was the last you heard of them.
Laura: Oh. They're not actually here, then. Yes. They're looking for other survivors, Tofor and Asum.
Matt: "In the place where this-- and what's this dragon you keep talking about?"
Laura: Oh, shit, you don't know anything. Thordak! Big. Terrible. Red.
Matt: As you say the name again, you can see her eyes resonate with a clarity, and where once was this very intense expression and air of demanding information suddenly recedes into this look of sudden fear, and she's briefly lost in thought.
Laura: Yes, you defeated him once. He escaped the Fire Realm.
Marisha: Not only did he escape, he tore a giant tear in the rifts between the Fire Realm and ours.
Matt: (sighs deeply) "Thordak." And you can see, she's starting to hyperventilate suddenly, like, for all of her strong exterior, this is the first time, aside from the brief hit of the beholder's ray earlier, you see fear in her eyes, and she starts standing up. (pants) "I need to get some air."
Marisha: Kima, Kima, it'll be--
Matt: "I need to--"
Marisha: Sit here, you want to sit down?
Matt: "I need to get s-- I need to get some air." And she storms out of the room.
Marisha: Let's go outside.
Laura: Actually, Keyleth--
Marisha: What?
Laura: I shut the door behind Kima.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: I want to talk to you.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: I would ask my brother, but, knowing him, he would walk away. What happened?
Marisha: Keyleth has a hard time looking her in the eye.
Laura: Look at me, Keyleth! Be strong! You're royalty. Tell me what happened.
Marisha: Vex, I don't want to ever see you like that again. I don't want to ever see anybody like that again.
Laura: I grab both sides of her face and force her to look at me. I'm all right. I'm still here. Okay? I need you to tell me what happened. Because between us? Vax is off. Something's wrong. And I need to know what it is.
Marisha: We all watched you die.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: It's like--
Laura: How did I get back? Who brought me back? Kashaw, Zahra, my brother. Anyone else?
Marisha: I guess... you could say, probably an unseen entity, an unseen force. Oh, I'm lightheaded.
Laura: Sit down.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: There's a bed. Sit down.
Marisha: Percy--
Laura: Percy helped.
Marisha: Let's skip that. When we brought you back, Kashaw performed a resurrection ritual.
Laura: Like we did with Pike.
Marisha: Yes. And he called upon a deity and at first he was afraid that it was Vesh. Which he was quite terrified about.
Laura: His wife.
Marisha: Yes. That, I don't believe, is the presence that answered his call.
Laura: Okay. Fluttery words here, darling. Get to the point.
Marisha: I thought I was going to lose you both. I thought I was going to lose you and Vax.
Laura: Why Vax? Did he get hurt as well? No. What did he do?
Marisha: He-- I don't know. I don't know what he did. He said to take him instead, is what he told the entity. He offered his life for yours. And my biggest fear was that neither of you were going to come back. He offered his life for you. And for all we know, that offer was accepted.
Laura: Right.
Marisha: If I had to guess, it was probably the Raven Queen herself.
Laura: Well. It's rather suiting, isn't it?
Marisha: He seems to do that quite a lot.
Laura: Yes. Keyleth? Thank you, dear. And I leave.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I stay behind and burst into tears.
Matt: Okay. Grog and Scanlan! What're you guys doing? (relieved laughter)
Liam: (Grog voice) Go fish.
Travis: So-- what do you want to do?
Sam: I don't know. I hadn't really thought about it. Do you have any games with you?
Travis: No.
Sam: Anything in the Bag of Holding?
Travis: I think there's some orc parts in there that've been in for a couple months.
Sam: Doesn't sound very fun.
Travis: Right. I got all nervous when they mentioned a goliath's cave, so I need to go boom-boom.
Sam: Should I play a song so no one can hear it?
Travis: Might help. Like, stand guard outside the door.
Sam: Yeah, yeah. A little muzak.
Travis: Would you mind?
Sam: It's what I'm here for.
Travis: Can I go drop some ordnance?
Matt: And as you find one of the few local ramshackle outhouses-- none are quite goliath-sized, and it's an uncomfortable experience, but thank God you brought a bard along or you would have woken up half the populace just going to bed, as Scanlan, I--
Sam: Nothing to see here, everybody! (plays random chords on the harmonica) Nothing to see here!
Travis: (coughs, then farts) Oh!
Laura: Okay, okay, okay, okay. (laughter)
Travis: Now, the music's playing, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: It's just a stall, just me?
Matt: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: All right, can I take out Craven Edge?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: All right.
Marisha: In the outhouse? Sorry, keep going!
Travis: It's the palace, this is where all the best thoughts and conversations happen! I don't know how it is at your house.
Liam: Keep in mind how confined it is, okay?
Travis: Yeah!
Liam: And go. (laughter)
Matt: Yes. (grunting)
Sam: Sounds like a rough one in there, buddy!
Matt: As you (chuckles) as you see one of the wood boards splinter out the side for a second--
Sam: Ah, yup, that's tacos!
Travis: You might want to play a bit louder and maybe take a few steps away, it's about to get violent.
Sam: No problem!
Travis: Yep.
Matt: At that moment you focus, and as you can feel the blade itself grow cold in your fingertips, you can see what little bit of light that filters through the bright orangish-red color that's coming from the sunset, you can see a reflection in the obsidian blade as a voice comes to your ear and says, "You fed me well."
Travis: Yeah, I did, right? I mean, we are really doing well. Question: so, when we were fighting that big Earthbreaker Groot-looking guy, he called you a 'dark weapon'. Does that-- do you have feelings, and did that hurt them?
Matt: There's a brief pause before you hear this long, drawn-out, (heavy sigh).
Travis: Right, hold on! No, no, listen. And I take my thumb and I run it against the blade real quick.
Matt: Okay. As you do, all of a sudden the voice goes, (gasp, contented exhale).
Travis: Right, yep, sorry, listen. So, my question is, as much as I love opening up people to feed you, I want to know, like-- what's in it for you?
Sam: Grog, are you talking to your shit?
Travis: Yeah, no, you got to let it know who's boss!
Sam: Okay.
Matt: The voice creeps in again, this time. "There is no feeling more terrifying than hunger. And I hunger forever. You help satiate that hunger. That is our arrangement. I give you the strength of those you cut down, and I feed upon them. If this is unsatisfactory, I can and have found others who are more willing to be part of this arrangement--"
Travis: No, no, no, I'm a big fan, really, I mean, I am yoked out when I'm using you, it's fucking amazing. I mean, people are flying apart, it's like a dream. But listen, can you ever be... full?
Matt: "I have never been full before. Perhaps you're the one to find out."
Travis: I'll bet I am, actually, you're really lucky you found me and not these other blokes, not even half the man I am. But listen, so, there's no, like, endgame, just to be clear, you just want to drink and drink, 'cause I've seen the blood, right? And usually I wipe it off, but you, like, suck it in, and that's a little unsettling, not going to lie.
Matt: "My hunger grows, but the air tarnishes my blade. Perhaps we can continue this conversation elsewhere."
Travis: (farts) Right, yeah, right. Not even a problem. Well, look, I like the way you cut people open, so we'll continue this another time. And I sheathe him.
Matt: All right. As you sheathe, the last thing he says is, "Don't forget: I hunger always."
Travis: I kick the door open, and I'm like, if you're within 200 feet, back up!
Sam: No one's out here, Grog.
Travis: Oh.
Sam: Just me. Are you all right?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: I heard you say something about blood.
Travis: Yeah, no, am I sweating? It was a real workout, that one.
Sam: At some point you said, "Are you full?" Are you talking about-- did you fill it all the way up?
Travis: Yeah, the privy, you know, it was starting to give my bum a tickle.
Sam: Wow!
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: You topped it off!
Travis: Yeah. Because, you know, you don't want to, like, dip in the muck, it's, you know--
Laura: Foul.
Sam: Not at all.
Travis: Did you want to--
Sam: I think I'm good.
Travis: Are you sure? I warmed it up for you, it's, like, ready to go.
Sam: I love a good deuce, but not today, I think.
Travis: All right. Fair enough. But I'm feeling so, like, vacated--
Sam: We should go get a bite.
Travis: I think you're right!
Sam: (laughs) All right, let's go.
Travis: (laughing) Okay.
Matt: Okay. You guys are getting a bite. Percival, if you want to go ahead and make a tinkering check with dexterity modifier to create more ammunition.
Taliesin: Tinkering check with dexterity modifier?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Should be plus 11.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16, okay. We'll say, in the time that you've had here, with the materials you purchased, and Whitestone's pretty open to supplying you--
Taliesin: I've got a thing.
Matt: Yeah, I'd say you're able to create roughly 40 or so simple bullets in the time that you have.
Taliesin: Do I have time to poke at a modification to the explosive arrow? I want to try and build a rock breaker. I'm curious to try and build an arrow for taking down walls or taking down doors.
Matt: Like a siege arrow?
Taliesin: A light form of siege arrow. Basically, I want to have a tip that actually manages to breach stone and then an explosion that goes outwards, so it's a shattering arrow.
Matt: All right, this'll take the remainder of your evening. You're not going to be able to do much else after this.
Taliesin: I have nothing else to do.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make a tinkering check with your intelligence modifier.
Taliesin: Okay. So... That's 23.
Matt: 23, okay. At the cost of roughly 150 gold pieces, as you have to go through a few different attempts to finally get the design right, and the metalworking you have here is not perfected. You're not at your workshop back at the keep, unfortunately, so you have to work with whatever you have here, and nothing here is designed for the--
Taliesin: No, I've got an okay workshop here.
Matt: Yeah. The one that you used before, previously, but that's from mostly discarded and-- in the time that you've been gone, it's been cannibalized for a lot of different uses. But it's makeshift. You manage to complete what you think could function. You're not entirely certain as to what the final effect will be, but it all seems to be in place.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: So you can write down 'Explosive Siege Arrow'.
Taliesin: Siege arrow.
Matt: And we shall find out in time what it does.
Marisha: Siege arrow. That's fun.
Taliesin: A few things I've been working on, and that's one of them.
Matt: So. Are you guys resting for the evening? Anything else you wish to accomplish?
Laura: That would probably be smart. I'm pretty tired after dying, so I'm going to go to sleep.
Matt: Okay. Vax, anything you want to accomplish before you--
Taliesin: God, the guilt. Okay. Yeah.
Sam: Can I buy a torch somewhere? Just a torch?
Matt: Sure! Yeah, torches are relatively easy to find. You want to try one?
Sam: Three.
Matt: Three torches. That's three copper.
Laura: I bring Trinket into the castle with me, just so you know.
Matt: After all this has happened, Trinket has been, like, almost locked to you. Even you going upstairs into the tavern, Trinket was like, (plaintive bear noises) stayed out front, 'cause Trinket's learned at this point, you can't really go into all the taverns.
Laura: It's hard, it's hard.
Matt: It's rough, being a bear.
Sam: And wherever we're eating, does it happen to be near Jameson the painter's workshop?
Matt: No, but it's about a 20-minute walk, if you wanted to go find him.
Sam: Be nice to check in with him. Grog, do you mind walking with me?
Travis: Absolutely not.
Sam: All right, so we'll truck on over to Jameson's.
Matt: Okay. You head up to it, and this gentleman is a painter as well as a stablehand, so you find your way to the facility, knock on it, and immediately as the door opens, the smell of fresh manure hits your nose and Jameson steps out. "Can I-- you!"
Sam: Yes! Hi!
Matt: "Hi!"
Sam: I've come back.
Matt: "I meant to deliver, but they told me not to, because apparently it's not there anymore?"
Sam: The town, you mean.
Matt: "Town, yeah, where I was supposed to deliver it to you."
Sam: It was wise of you to keep this precious artifact here, because it would've surely been destroyed en route or when it arrived--
Matt: "It's just the canvas, I don't have a-- It's a bit too large for my specifications of framing, but--"
Sam: I'm sure it's huge. Did you finish it?
Matt: "Yes, yes! Come, come!"
Sam: Can I look?
Travis: Oh please, oh please!
Sam: (laughing) Okay, let's go look!
Matt: He takes one of the hooded lanterns and turns up the oil wick on it, and as he turns away he brings you into the back stable area where it's been sectioned off, and you can see there's paints that have been dropped all across the ground and the hay, it's this multicolored spattering, this rainbow vomit across this section of hay floor, and there in all of its glory, stretched across and nailed at the corners to this far, far wall, you see a fantastical landscape of rolling hills and treelines rising up at the edges. You can see a mountainscape in the distance. The lighting he uses is magnificent. You can see why many people in the city specifically requested that you go to this gentleman. There atop this fantastic green hilltop, you see on this fine white and grey steed as it raises up, hooves in the air, is yourself, shirt open, chest slightly fuzzy and muscular. As you look off, your hair blowing in the breeze--
Sam: How's the face? How's the face?
Matt: The face is pretty damn spot-on.
Sam: Yes! (laughter)
Matt: The best likeness you can find for somebody who only had a brief reference, as he sketched you quickly before he left, and there behind, clutching you, from the side you can see Pike wearing these long greyish-silver and blue robes that are also flowing behind, a long train-- longer than it needs to be, stylistically it was a choice in the artistics point of this-- it is everything you hoped it would be. You paid good money for this piece.
Sam: I'm going to request-- Grog, I need a minute here.
Travis: Oh, yeah. I understand, take--
Sam: Just to weep.
Travis: Take all the time you need.
Sam: So I regard it for a few minutes, taking in the beauty and the wonder of all I've accomplished--
Marisha: I have a question. Would Keyleth and Scanlan be crying in rooms at the same time?
Matt: Right now? Yes. For different reasons entirely.
Sam: (singing) Somewhere out there...
Taliesin: (singing) Somewhere out there...
Travis: Look at the air, look at the air high-five. There it is.
Sam: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Taliesin: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Marisha: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Travis: So white. That was the whitest of white high fives ever.
Taliesin: I'm imagining this as a canvas of Lisa Frank majesty, by the way. Like, the greatest Lisa Frank Trapper Keeper cover in all the land.
Matt: Oh, man. (laughter)
Sam: After I weep for a few minutes, I thank Jameson again and how much did I pay him for this thing? You've gone above and beyond, Jameson, and I know that you're a humble man and you don't want me to spread word of your accomplishments, but please allow me to write you an epic poem or a song and tell of your artistic gifts and talents, please.
Matt: "That would be a fine tip, sir. Please, yes, do so."
Sam: I'll get right on it.
Matt: "Send them back to Whitestone, please, ask for Jameson. The more I work this, hopefully I can make my way out of this dunghole."
Sam: Don't worry, you'll have lots of commissions after this, I promise you.
Matt: "Great."
Sam: And I'm going to give him an extra 50 gold.
Matt: "I, um--"
Liam: That's more than the price of a book.
Matt: "Sir, I-- thank you. Thank you, thank you."
Sam: For art supplies to get your shop up and running.
Matt: "Of course." He looks down and he's gotten a little bit of paint on the coins, he's like, (muttering and stammering). He puts it aside somewhere. "Thank you--" Wipes his hands off on a nearby rag. "Thank you." And takes your hand and shakes it vigorously.
Sam: So, can it be--
Matt: Yeah, he goes in and he takes his little claw hammer down, starts pulling the nails out from the sides and gingerly rolls up the canvas. It takes a good, like, three minutes to roll the thing up, and it's quite heavy as he hands it over to you-- (heavy grunt) In your hand, yeah, it almost takes you off your feet.
Sam: Grog! Grog!
Travis: What?
Sam: Can you hold this for me?
Travis: No, it's you, I mean, you're so magnificent in it--
Sam: No, I can't do it.
Travis: I don't know it-- I really--
Sam: Grog! I watched you shit for an hour!
Travis: Hey, all right, I'll pick it up.
Matt: All right. You guys find your way out. At this point night has taken; you can hear the crickets starting to spread throughout the city. As the rest of the blue night sky takes on-- Evening is ready, do you guys have anything else to accomplish before the evening comes to a close?
Liam: Wait 'til it's quiet. And I leave the room that I've been given at Whitestone. And I find my sister's door. And I stand outside it, and I stare at it for a minute--
Laura: Vax? Is that you?
Liam: And I stealth away.
Laura: I open the door.
Matt: Roll a stealth check, roll a perception check.
Laura: Shit.
Liam: 25.
Laura: 22. Damn it.
Matt: Nothing to be seen. Must have been your imagination, Vex.
Travis: He's good.
Liam: And I wait for the door to close. And then I walk to Keyleth's door. And I knock.
Matt: You hear a knock at your door.
Laura: And horses.
Matt: The clomping of horse hooves in the distance, apparently.
Marisha: I open it. Hey. Hi. You okay?
Liam: I don't know.
Marisha: Come in. Sit down.
Liam: I go in.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: How do you feel?
Liam: I don't know. All I know is... that I felt her. I don't know magic, I don't know anything. I open doors, and only when the wind is blowing in the right direction, sometimes, I think. I don't know what happened, but I felt her.
Marisha: Do you still feel her?
Matt: Make a perception check, Vax.
Liam: 22.
Matt: As you're sitting there, looking down at the ground, as she asks this question, you notice the symbol of Sarenrae that you have stitched into the back of your glove, what was once a very vibrant, goldish-brass color has actually very heavily tarnished, and the metal itself seems to have cracked in three places. It was not this way a day before.
Liam: Yeah. I don't know if I did anything in there, and I wouldn't take it back if I did, but I don't know what I'm doing.
Marisha: I don't know if it was very noble or very stupid, to be honest. Probably a little bit of both. I can attempt a Greater Restoration spell, and see if I can sense anything.
Liam: I don't know anything about any of that. I'll let you.
Marisha: Can I?
Matt: Yeah. So as you prepare your mindset for the cleansing ritual that is the Greater Restoration--
Marisha: Just lay back.
Matt: As soon as the dull green energy begins to course across your fingertips, and as you touch the edge of his shoulder to impart his body with the cleansing energy, it courses through his shoulders, the spell completes. You sense no difference in your current physicality, mindset, and there's this pause, this silence, of no realization, that is suddenly shattered by the sound of a (caws). You look over and at the stone edge of the window you guys are staying in, you see stepping there a single dark raven, (clicks, rapid flapping) and it takes off and flies into the night.
Marisha: I think this goes beyond any natural realm that I have any bearing over. And I hug him. I thought I was going to lose you. And I'm terrified I'm still going to.
Liam: Keyleth, I love you.
Marisha: And I think I love you. I just don't know if I can allow myself to. I'm terrified to allow myself to. You do realize that, if by some crazy chance, we all somehow make it through this domination alive, with the Chroma Conclave, and I complete my Aramente, I'll still watch all of you die. Everything could go phenomenally well. And by becoming Headmaster, we enter a bit of a realm of immortality where I could live for a very, very long time. I'm afraid every time I look at one of your faces that it's going to be the last, and I feel like deep down I know that day is coming. So because of that I'm afraid to let myself feel anything deeper than I already do.
Liam: I quickly leave her room.
Matt: The door closes behind Vax.
Marisha: And for the second time today Keyleth bursts into tears. Why do people keep leaving me in rooms alone?
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Stop it, you're wasting water.
Marisha: We're in a drought, god damn it!
Laura: When was the last time you showered, Keyleth?
Marisha: It's been a while.
Taliesin: Makeup's runny.
Liam: Go water elemental.
Matt: It's the only way. All right, as you all find yourself coming to rest for the evening, some of you easier than others, eventually you get your full rest. Those who heal up to, say, full hit points for a good night's rest here, get your hit dice back, so not a whole lot were spent.
Travis: I lose my strength bonuses.
Matt: Morning comes to you all, and-- yes?
Liam: Sorry, just one detail. From there, I went and fell asleep in this idiot's doorway.
Matt: Okay. All right. We will go ahead and take a quick break, we will see you guys back here shortly to see what is in store for Vox Machina. So we'll be back here in a minute. [break]
Liam: Matt, shit on my face.
Matt: Welcome back, everybody!
Sam: It's too close!
Laura: They caught it, that one caught it.
Matt: That was pretty close.
Liam: All they heard was "ace."
Matt: It's all good. Welcome back, guys. We're going to go ahead and jump back in. So as you all, after that, for some, emotional evening, whether that be conversational emotion or, you know, having to go drop an emotional deuce. You know, that's important. You find yourselves waking up to a fresh morning in Whitestone, hints of blue sky breaking through the cloud coverage, and that's rare for this area because it's the northern portion of the continent, you know that, especially being so close to the ocean, a lot of the cloud, heavy precipitation makes its way in the direction of your town, so it's nice to have a little break in that. Nonetheless, as you guys come to consciousness and gather yourselves, your things, and your plans for the day, what do you wish to do?
Taliesin: We are a city of seasonal affectation disorder, so.
Laura: Well, I open my door and find my brother falling through it.
Liam: I'm awake.
Laura: Oh, good morning.
Liam: Hi.
Laura: Comfortable bed, I see.
Liam: Yeah. Sorry, I couldn't find my room.
Laura: Yeah, it's confusing, all these, all these doors.
Liam: What time's it?
Laura: I have no idea. My nature check tells me it's roughly, I dunno, eight? Nine? Something like that. Seven? Maybe seven.
Liam: Come here, you shithead. Don't fucking do that again.
Laura: It's not like I did it on--
Liam: Don't fucking do that again, all right? Just don't fucking do it again.
Laura: All right.
Liam: Fuck.
Laura: I can't breathe. You're about to kill me again.
Liam: You'll live, you'll live. Jesus. Whoever that is.
Laura: So-- (laughs) I heard a rumor that you sort of saved my life in a really creepy sort of way. I talk to people. I talk to so many people. I find out things. Secrets aren't safe when Vex is around.
Liam: Is there any coffee in this fucking castle?
Laura: Wait, wait, wait, I have a present for you, because I feel like you're going to really like it. Would you like it?
Liam: That's random. All right.
Laura: I have this armor that I think would be really great on you. Do you want it? It's really expensive. If you don't take it quickly, I might change my mi--
Liam: I don't want it.
Laura: Oh, that was expensive cardstock. (laughter)
Liam: I'll give you the leather armor after I have a chance to change.
Laura: All right. I love you.
Liam: (softly) I know. I know.
Laura: Let's get breakfast.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: From that point, the smell of coffee begins to fill the air from the inside of the Whitestone castle halls. The servants have prepared breakfast, and a meal is ready for you. Grog jumping to attention as the scent reaches your nose. The rest of you all slowly find your way back down. You eat--
Marisha: Do we come out and see Vax in the armor?
Matt: Are you putting on the armor?
Liam: I'm just looking at it in the hallway.
Marisha: So I guess I step out and see him looking at it in the hallway.
Liam: Still pretty tired, to be honest. Didn't sleep a lot in the doorway.
Matt: Yeah. Some of you guys step out, and you see Vax standing in the hallway, clutching in his hands, looking over all the various, like, pushed-in, engraved runes across the leatherwork, the raven feathers that adorn the bottom of the mantle.
Laura: Careful, it smells a lot like must and mold and birds.
Marisha: I walk by and... briefly lock eyes and keep going without saying anything.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Oh shit, you got the armor now?
Laura: He stole it, what can I say? He is a really sneaky, stealthy kind of guy.
Travis: Nice.
Laura: Yeah. Fair and square.
Liam: I just took it for fashion purposes, I suppose.
Travis: Oh, you need all the help you can get.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: Should we go out in the woods and unleash an undead beast that will kill us all?
Travis: Yes! Christmas morning! Who has that, by the way?
Sam: I do.
Travis: Oh! Yeah!
Sam: Don't worry, it's safe.
Travis: Where d'you keep it?
Sam: Oh! Hold on-- Got a pouch or some-- you know what? It's back in my room.
Matt: All right. You go retrieve it.
Sam: Got it!
Travis: Where's Percy?
Laura: Where's Pike? We should bring her with us. Can we bring Pike with us? I know she's taking care of Gilmore, but.
Sam: Mm, that's possibly more important. I think this thing'll be fine!
Laura: We need some sort of somebody that can heal, I think we've learned this for ourselves.
Sam: I can heal!
Travis: Yeah, we got potions, we're fine. It's probably, like, a big Saint Bernard. What's the big deal?
Laura: (sighs) Okay. We learn nothing, carry on.
Travis: Where's Percy?
Taliesin: I'm right here.
Travis: Oh! Shit, you were quiet. Hello.
Taliesin: (coughs) Hello. Good morning.
Travis: Need any coffee? An enema?
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: A coffee enema?
Taliesin: What!? No. I'm fine. Good morning.
Liam: I'm going to walk off with this shit.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And we go outside with the necklace.
Sam: Yeah, where're we headed?
Travis: The woods!
Laura: No. The caves. I thought we were going to the--
Marisha: Going to the caves on the edge of the woods.
Matt: Yeah. It's the caves that are--
Marisha: Going to go through the woods.
Liam: (sings) Into the woods!
Matt: So. You all gather together and make your way northwest of Whitestone, towards where you found the stone giant fortress and the series of caves that are in the mountain behind it. You get there; it's still seemingly abandoned. You case the area for a while. No noticeable movement other than a few woodland entities that exist in that vicinity.
Laura: Primeval Awareness! (radar sounds)
Matt: Okay. That is now the sound it makes every time you do it.
Laura: I like it.
Matt: Yeah, so hold onto that one. I'll make that a new ringtone sound for you guys. What are you looking for?
Laura: Oh, there's so many things I could sense!
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: What about sirens?
Laura: Sirens?
Travis: Wait, what are those things called? The things that took our horses the last time we were here?
Matt: Harpies?
Travis: Yeah, yeah, whatever.
Laura: Sure! Harpies.
Matt: For how many miles is it?
Laura: Six miles!
Matt: Six miles? Yeah, there's a few blips on the far, far western side of here. You get the essence way off in the mountains, there's maybe a small nest. Nothing that's immediately dangerous.
Laura: What about if I sit for one more minute and I think if I can sense any giants.
Matt: You do, to the far, far north. You get the sense that there is some sort of giant-based lifeform maybe two, three miles north of you.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: How's it look?
Laura: Well, I mean, clear of the things I checked for. No giants.
Travis: Sweet! Let's go! Up to the cave!
Matt: All right. So the fortress or the caves behind it?
Travis: Fortress or cave?
Laura: Were they both empty? I don't remember.
Taliesin: Everything was empty, if I recall.
Travis: Yeah. Small space.
Taliesin: Let's do the caves.
Laura: All right, sure. Cave.
Travis: Yeah. Cave.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Oh, if we stick to the woods, it's my favored terrain. If we go into a cave, not as much.
Sam: The caves would contain it. It can't fly away or anything.
Travis: So is it like, cave-fortress, are they same level? I can't remember.
Matt: It's a pathway that leads up into a small ravine in the mountain pass where you guys originally walked down into Whitestone. Up against the north side of where the mountain meets that ravine, there's a big stone fortress that is built into the side of the mountain, and then around that are a series of smaller caves.
Liam: (singing) Anything can happen in the woods.
Travis: Yeah, let's go to this fortress, then we got more room to move in case it does suck.
Sam: All right, fine, fortress.
Matt: You guys find your way inside, the cold morning air still has encompassed the stone floor itself, you can see there are still the scattered and slowly decomposing bits of meat and flesh in the far corner, you still see the splatters of blood that have turned black and cracked as it dried. No corpses here, as the corpses were retooled by the Briarwoods while they were in control. The fortress other than that is still empty, and seemingly untouched since you last left it.
Sam: All right, well, I'm just going to do it then!
Laura: Wait wait wait!
Marisha: Wait wait wait!
Marisha: Wait, there's doors open to the cave, right?
Sam: We're in a fortress.
Taliesin: We're in a fortress.
Marisha: Fortress. Whatever.
Matt: (laughs) Coffee's just starting to kick in for you guys.
Laura: Just barely! Do we have any buff spells or some shit that we should cast, to make us cooler?
Marisha: Should I throw a wall up?
Sam: A wall for what?
Marisha: Do I need to bar the entrance? Or are there doors?
Taliesin: Vex, by the way--
Matt: There are doors, but they're partially ajar where you left them.
Laura: Aww, put it on, it's useful!
Liam: No. We're not having this conversation.
Taliesin: Vex, by the way, I've got something for you.
Laura: What? Yes, dear?
Taliesin: And I pull out the arrow.
Laura: What is this?
Taliesin: This is an evening of unbridled guilt. Come here, let me show you. In theory, this is a siege arrow.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Shattering stone, shattering doors, breaking things that should not be broken.
Laura: Breaking hearts left and right?
Taliesin: If that is what you're after. It should work! Never forget you're my favorite, and I'm so sorry.
Laura: I kiss him on the cheek. Thank you, Percy.
Taliesin: That was much nicer than your brother.
Laura: Is that a black eye?
Taliesin: (stammering) I didn't sleep.
Laura: Huh. This is lovely, I can't wait to use it.
Taliesin: There'll be more.
Sam: All right, in three, two--
Travis: Wait hold on, hold on hold on!
Taliesin: In a circle! Aim it into the center of the circle.
Liam: And is it three-two-one, three-two-one-do it, or three-two-one and go,
Sam: On the one. On one.
Taliesin: It's Jenga, one one-thousand two one-thousand three one-thousand four one-thousand.
Sam: Should one of us leave the room in case it comes out and paralyzes all of us? Just going to throw that out there.
Travis: Oh yeah, we should, what do you call it, spread out?
Laura: Yeah, definitely, let's all surround it and make sure we're not all clumped up.
Taliesin: If only someone had armor that could make them immune to paralysis.
Liam: That's not a bad idea, you get controlled by things. Maybe you could wait just a little bit further back?
Laura: This was somebody's pet, all right? It's probably not smart enough to take control of our minds.
Liam: That's a big if.
Travis: I don't mind stepping out, but I would like to be able to see.
Laura: Yeah yeah yeah!
Liam: Yeah! We won't shut the door, I just want you outside of any potential blast radius.
Taliesin: Let's spread out in a circle; we'll let it loose in the center, that way it can't even see all of us.
Laura: All right, I like it. It only gets to see Scanlan.
Sam: It can see me.
Laura: I'm going to stealth.
Sam: Well, when a thing is born, it latches on to the first thing it sees, like its mama.
Liam: Yes, we're going to hide.
Matt: All right, stealth check from both of you guys?
Marisha: So we're going to try and talk to it?
Laura: Yeah, Scanlan's going to talk to it.
Marisha: Scanlan? You prepared?
Laura: Natural 20!
Taliesin: You just teleport, there's like a phase effect.
Matt: The two of you back off and find the nearby shaded corners, where some of the haphazardly tossed hides and furs are in the corner, you vanish behind the alcoves keeping a watch.
Laura: Trinket, don't stand next to me, it gives it away. Go stand next to Keyleth!
Travis: Is there a doorway in the fortress?
Matt: Yeah, there's the main doorway you guys entered, which is two--
Travis: Can I stand in that, then?
Matt: Sure, you stand there, in the entranceway that's pushed open, which is wide enough for a giant to push through. You got a little bit of room to each side, but you're there.
Travis: Vax, is this g-- Vax?
Taliesin: It's fine, you're fine.
Sam: Here we go, guys.
Marisha: So, those two are stealthed-- I'm at Scanlan's left shoulder, back a bit.
Laura: And Trinket's next to you!
Marisha: And Trinket's next to me. I'm rolling with Trinket.
Taliesin: I've got a little bit of distance, yes, that's good.
Matt: All righty, and there's Percy here, and Travis is off this way. Good to know.
Sam: I don't know how to use this thing.
Marisha: Yeah, we don't know how to use it.
Sam: By the power of Raven's Slumber, I command thee: (yells) awaken! Beast! Cruel or otherwise! Face your new master, and know his name is Scanlan! (laughter)
Travis: (laughing) Oh, holy shit! Never could've been better.
Matt: As you spend your bonus action to release the gate hold on the crystal, you guys see as he thrusts his hands forward, there's a burst of shadow energy that, almost like someone throwing a big pot of water, this blackness goes out of it, and then as it hits the ground, it spills into smoke on the ground, and as that dark form stops, it is in the form of an about waist-to-lower-torso-height creature. As the form coalesces into its normal self, you can see before you, shaking its head, a rather large, dark grey and black wolf. (growls, snarls)
Sam: Easy, easy.
Travis: Told you it was a dog.
Sam: Garlic? Galdric, Galdric, easy, Galdric. Easy. We're friends. Here.
Matt: He's backing up a little bit, snarling. You see Trinket starts growling, (growls).
Laura: Trinket, be nice-- oh!
Matt: As you say that (snarls) it looks over at you in the far corner.
Laura: (whispers) I'm natural 20! That still didn't see me!
Marisha: I pet Trinket, like, 'Chill, chill, be cool'.
Matt: Trinket backs up a little bit, but still locking eyes. You can see this wolf now, its gums and teeth are bared, its fur is all puffed up, its tail is-- it's definitely holding its ground and trying to make itself look as intimidating as possible.
Sam: Is it a small beast?
Matt: This would be, technically, borderline medium. This'd be medium, technically.
Sam: I can only speak with small beasts.
Marisha: Wait, use Speak with Animals?
Liam: (laughs) She swatted me and said, 'Put your armor on,' so I'm doing it.
Matt: Okay. That'll take you about 15 minutes.
Laura: Aw.
Liam: 15 minutes! Well, guess I'm doing it.
Matt: All right. You don't just slip on leather armor. (chuckles)
Liam: No, I get that, I get that, I would've guessed two minutes.
Travis: Can somebody check to see if it's actually a wolf or just looks like one? Like, check it?
Laura: Can I use my perception?
Matt: You're a bit far away from it right now. You can try to get closer if you want.
Laura: Can I sneak?
Matt: Yeah, make another stealth check.
Laura: I do get advantage, because of my cloak. Sweet.
Liam: You should yell out, 'I'm stealthing'.
Laura: I'm stealthing! Damn it. 19?
Matt: Okay. As you begin making your way forward, it doesn't seem to notice you.
Laura: Hey, it doesn't?
Matt: No.
Laura: Can I see it better now to perceive it?
Matt: Looking right at it, and from your experience in the wild as well, and Keyleth, you're getting it, this does not appear to be anything beyond a large wolf.
Taliesin: I'm going to get on my knees and put out my hand and call it. Galdric, Galdric.
Matt: Go ahead and make an animal handling check.
Sam: Animal handling! We've never done that before!
Laura: If I help my brother get on the armor, will it happen faster?
Matt: Probably.
Laura: I help him put on the armor.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: (whispering) Ow ow ow! That's too tight!
Laura: Well, you're not the same size as the other guy!
Taliesin: Yeah, it's a little bit better. Ten.
Matt: Ten. As you put out your hand, Galdric snarls, and as you say, "Here, boy." (growls and snaps) It lashes out at your hand. That is going to be-- That's a 21 to hit?
Taliesin: I'll take it.
Travis: Keyleth, can't you talk to, like, plants and shit?
Matt: You take six points of piercing damage as its jaws clench down on your hand, and you tear your hand away. You can feel the warmth flowing under the glove.
Taliesin: Gently, I'm gentle with it.
Marisha: I cast Speak with Animals.
Liam: I click my Boots of Haste!
Matt: You do?
Sam: Aren't you getting dressed?
Laura: He can dress faster!
Travis: Speed change.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Quick change.
Sam: Seven-and-a-half minutes! (laughter)
Matt: You guys all become immediately aware of the creaking of leather in the distance as the two siblings are in the process of fast-changing one of the other.
Laura: The rustle of feathers.
Marisha: Okay, I cast Speak with Animals. And I crouch down to the ground. And bow down a little bit, and I say: are you the one they call Galdric?
Matt: Looks over at you for a second. The growl stops, and its posture changes a little bit. It raises its nose. (sniffs)
Marisha: Was Purvan your master?
Matt: Looking at you as you guys hear Keyleth making this series of growling sounds.
Laura: Trinket totally understands you, no?
Matt: Strangely enough, Trinket does, Trinket's like, (confused bear noise).
Taliesin: Trinket is Scooby-Doo, apparently.
Travis: Shitballs! Taint! You going that way?
Marisha: Oh my god, I get a secret!
Sam: There are several items that are sold out at the store! If you'd like to go on and see what items have already sold out, check it out. (laughs)
Laura: We need to get more t-shirts in stock.
Sam: Yeah, we know that. We know that, guys. We know.
Laura: That needs to happen. But there is still the Critical Role logo t-shirt available. What is happening? What is he--
Sam: Is there a ring or something?
Laura: Is the ring still available?
Sam: I don't know.
Laura: If the ring is still available, check out our ring!
Marisha: I can respond back, right? Your master died a great champion for the Raven Queen. He has been paid a great honor, and now the Raven Queen has chosen a new master.
Laura: I push Vax forward.
Matt: You've gotten maybe part of the tunic on. (laughter)
Sam: Is he Donald-Duck-ing it right now?
Matt: Practically. There are undergarments, but not much. It's, like, bare legs and knees, part of an arm. Yeah, he got thrust out of the changing room about 20 seconds into it.
Sam: Nice.
Liam: I still walk toward the wolf.
Taliesin: Waddle.
Liam: No no no, I did the top, I did the top, c'mon!
Matt: The wolf turns his head a little bit curiously.
Marisha: I continue to speak to the wolf.
Liam: And I kneel. And bow my head.
Marisha: A great darkness has fallen upon our lands. Upon Othanzia. We could use all of the assistance that we can achieve. Would you be willing to find a new purpose? Join Vax'ildan--
Liam: Keyleth?
Marisha: Yes?
Liam: Tell him to come forward and look into my eyes.
Laura: (whispers) That's a bad idea for dogs.
Liam: Tell him.
Laura: (whispers) It's gonna bite your face off.
Marisha: Galdric. Please. Approach your new master and look into his eyes.
Laura: Give him some chocolate, man!
Matt: The wolf looks towards you, looks towards the loosely half-dressed half-elf.
Marisha: Look into his eyes. I said look into his eyes. And see the touch of the Raven Queen inside of him.
Matt: Wolf slowly stalks towards you across the stone floor. You can hear the claws of the wolf clattering against the stonework. As you can see it's partially, like, digging into the stonework with each step. It has purpose with each stride.
Liam: As it's coming, I'm taking daggers out and throwing 'em on the ground.
Matt: The wolf stops and looks up at you. Turns around and walks towards the doorway where you are.
Sam: Where who is?
Matt: Where Grog is. Grog, who's now at the door, at the exit.
Laura: (whispers) What's his name?
Taliesin: Galdric.
Marisha: Galdric.
Marisha: Galdric!
Matt: Keeps walking.
Laura: Galdric!
Sam: Going to stop him, Grog?
Travis: Well, I'm in the doorway.
Marisha: Grog, don't move. Don't move. Look at the dog. Don't move, and don't hurt the dog. Please just look at the dog.
Laura: I pull out one of my treats I have for Trinket.
Matt: Okay. Trinket starts lumbering up towards you (thudding).
Laura: Wait, wait, Trinket-- This is for your buddy Galdric. Galdric!
Matt: Just keeps walking, doesn't even look at you in the face, walks--
Laura: I throw the treat and say, hey!
Matt: It scatters across the stone. Walks between your legs and exits out.
Travis: I pivot on my back foot. I take out Craven Edge--
Taliesin: No!
Travis: No, I do, I take out Craven Edge and I sink it into the earth right beside his head. And I say, (shouts) heel!
Matt: Make an animal handling check.
Laura: Whoa, is it good, is it good?
Travis: 20.
Matt: As the sword (crack) into the rock outside of this fortress, it probably embeds itself a good foot and a half into the mountain. You guys all hear Grog's shout echo through the inside of the fortress itself, causing little bits of dust and small pebbles to dislodge from the roof, slowly fall down. The wolf has stopped and spun in its place and reached out and lashed the blade with its jaws and (cling) as it releases it.
Travis: Stay.
Matt: He sits.
Travis: That went well! (laughter)
Sam: Dog whisperer!
Travis: Good pup.
Sam: Are you its master now?
Travis: No, no, I don't think it has a master. This is a very powerful beast. But it needs a firm hand. And I think it needs a job. So. What do we plan to do with Galdric? Said his name right?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: We plan on having him help us kill some dragons?
Taliesin: I think he's a wolf. I think perhaps something a little less ambitious.
Laura: Trinket hides very well when dragons are around.
Taliesin: I think, perhaps, joining the Whitestone conclave might be a-- Having him guard Whitestone, perhaps.
Laura: Good, yeah! I like it!
Travis: I reach into the Bag of Holding and I pull out one thing of dry food rations, and a probably pretty rotten chunk of dark elf brain.
Liam: Where did we get that?
Travis: Oh, there's a veritable Walmart of shit in this bag. (laughter)
Travis: And I, like a hamburger patty, smash it all together.
Matt: The only reason you even know this was at one point dark elf brain matter is because that's what you willed to reach in and find. It does not at all visually match your memory of its--
Travis: Does it have a little bit of a viscous-y ooze, mostly?
Matt: Oh yeah, no, it's--
Travis: It'll soften up the dry food.
Liam: Gray Chicken McNuggets.
Matt: It'll soften up a lot of things. It's pretty terrifying.
Laura: It'll make the wolf vomit.
Travis: So I throw that on the ground, and I pour a little ale on top of it. (laughter)
Sam: Wolves love getting drunk.
Matt: Very good. It leans forward and smells it.
Travis: Yeah, no, it wasn't the best, I can do better. Okay.
Laura: Trinket goes up and starts eating it.
Travis: He's going to barf that all over the carpet later.
Liam: Forget the chocolate.
Travis: I need to carry beef in this bitch.
Taliesin: It goes bad.
Liam: We have Dork! We've got nothing of Dork left?
Laura: Oh, you know what I have, by the way? I still have, like, a cooler Bag of Holding. That we got from the Slayer's Take.
Travis: Oh! That's really good to know.
Travis: I pour into a little chalice some ale.
Laura: Like, it keeps things cold. Yeah, it's like a little bitty one, but it keeps parts from going bad.
Matt: It's nowhere near as large as a Bag of Holding, but it has a slow stasis for organic goods.
Sam: We should keep some food on hand next time!
Laura: Totally!
Travis: I offer him some ale, just to see if he even likes it. Some dogs like beer, some others don't.
Matt: Mm. Wolf doesn't seem to be interested.
Travis: Yeah, all right. Then I chug it.
Sam: So are we telling this wolf something or commanding it to come with us as we return to town?
Taliesin: I think he would be helpful to guard the town, at this point.
Laura: Well, he'll follow Grog, I suppose.
Sam: Let's go back to town and bring him with us.
Travis: All right.
Matt: You guys return to Whitestone. It's another, like, three-hour trek to find your way back down to the city. Stalks up next to you. Definitely seems to be attentive to your commands. Doesn't appear to be a bond per se, but of everyone that it's encountered so far, you're the only one that really gathered its respect.
Laura: I threw a treat at it. I don't understand.
Travis: That's a great thing to throw at a giant 400-pound bull mastiff.
Marisha: I spoke words at it. Apparently that's not good enough. Communicating.
Travis: Right, so we're walking back to town. We've got a giant fuck-off wolf with us. Vax looks like Edward Scissorhands.
Liam: I'm peeling that off as we walk.
Laura: What?
Travis: What?
Travis: No!
Laura: Leave it the fuck on!
Liam: I'm peeling it off.
Laura: It's really expensive. What, do you want to damage it?
Liam: I'm peeling it off.
Laura: (quietly) Fuck, he doesn't appreciate presents.
Matt: All right, so you take what little bit of the armor you had on, off, and are you putting your other armor back on?
Laura: He doesn't have any other armor. I took his armor.
Liam: I have regular fucking armor that I grew up in with you, you fucking shit.
Sam: Do you want to trade with me, Vax? I've got some armor you could take.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: You're a funny man.
Matt: All right, so you're back in town and you have a wolf.
Travis: Do we find a holding pen for the wolf?
Taliesin: I don't think we need to. I think we can communicate to him--
Laura: No. Tell him not to attack villagers.
Taliesin: Ask him if he'll be willing to keep the town safe.
Laura: Do it in a really aggressive way, though, Keyleth. Stern.
Marisha: Very aggressive? Okay. Okay.
Sam: We should find some food for the thing, too.
Marisha: If I turned into a dog. If I turned into a wolf, do you think he'd respect me more?
Laura: No, he'll probably attack you.
Travis: He'll mount you.
Laura: Or he'll bone you.
Taliesin: I'm not ready for that game.
Sam: Do it.
Travis: Let's be clear. (laughter)
Laura: Matt's like, "mm-mm."
Liam: Oh, you soured the DM. (laughter)
Taliesin: To be fair, that's happened before.
Laura: Yeah, I remember.
Taliesin: With the troll.
Travis: With the troll. It was so good. That was you, wasn't it?
Taliesin: No, it wasn't me. Was it you?
Sam: I don't know.
Travis: Who was getting humped on?
Taliesin: I don't remember.
Sam: Finalize this wolf so we can go kill something.
Marisha: I take my staff and I say, Galdric! I'm being assertive.
Liam: Yes.
Sam: She's the alpha.
Laura: (whispering) Grog, go stand behind her.
Marisha: You want a task? I'll give you one.
Matt: All right. How long does Speak With--
Marisha: I don't know.
Matt: It lasts for ten minutes, so you can cast it again. It's first level.
Marisha: Oh, has it not been ten minutes?
Matt: It has been more than ten minutes. It took you three hours to return.
Marisha: Okay, we walked back? Okay, I'll cast it again.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: Can I cast Speak With Animals on other people? I can't, right? No.
Matt: All right, so as you shout, go ahead and make an animal handling check, with advantage because of your ability to speak.
Marisha: With advantage?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: I'll take the-- what is that, 16? Plus a six, so 22.
Matt: Okay. Galdric turns to you and essentially leans towards you and you get the essence, the idea of a message across, and to keep me from having to walk behind now, at this point, as you guys have managed to make seeming amends at the moment, employs the idea of, "I'll listen if you give me a task."
Marisha: He talked back.
Laura: Have him guard the village.
Marisha: Okay. (louder) Galdric. Only a beast of your great fortitude--
Laura: Just fucking tell him to do it!
Marisha: Right, okay. Sorry. Would you like to guard--
Sam: It's a command.
Marisha: -- the town, Whitestone? (shouting) Guard this town, dog.
Travis: Keyleth, repeat after me.
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: In exchange for food, protect these lands.
Marisha: Galdric. In exchange for food, shelter, and a cozy fire every once in awhile--
Travis: I didn't say that shit. I didn't say that. He's a wolf. He doesn't need those.
Marisha: Patrol these lands.
Laura: Protect these lands.
Marisha: Protect these lands.
Travis: (quietly) Holy shit.
Matt: "For how long?"
Laura: (laughs) He already asked that.
Marisha: Why does he want details? Why does the dog want--
Laura: As long as we need you to.
Travis: No, no. A great danger approaches.
Taliesin: Until the danger has passed.
Travis: You'll know it when it comes.
Marisha: (clears throat) A great danger--
Laura: Approaches!
Marisha: Approaches! A great danger approaches. Your service is required until that danger--
Taliesin: Has passed.
Marisha: Has passed! Is no longer in effect. You'll know. You'll know, because they're fucking dragons, man. You'll know. Protect--
Travis: I walk over and put my hand over Keyleth's mouth. You stay. We feed you. Is there a tavern or a butcher shop or something nearby?
Matt: There is a butcher. As you're having this thought, however, Galdric turns back over to you and says, "I can feed myself."
Laura: Yeah, you can.
Matt: "But I will watch until this danger has passed."
Laura: Awesome.
Matt: "Then am I free to go?"
Marisha: Then you are free to go.
Matt: "Very well. I grow tired of service. I wait too long." And the wolf looks at you, gives you like an acknowledgement, and then walks off into the woods.
Laura: Bye, buddy!
Marisha: Thanks, Galdric. Appreciate it, man.
Laura: Man, that's a cool-looking wolf.
Marisha: I look at Grog. How was that? Did that sound okay?
Travis: That was the dumbest thing I've ever heard. (laughter)
Taliesin: You did good, you did good.
Sam: I thought she did very well.
Marisha: Thank you. It really liked you. You should learn how to talk to animals.
Laura: What is that? What is that you have? What is that?
Taliesin: I'm holding onto the Raven's Slumber jewel at the moment.
Sam: The thing that can capture evil.
Taliesin: It's empty now, and do you know what I bet would fit in it very nicely?
Travis: Me.
Laura: And we can carry him around and then pop him out. Wait, okay, wait. Is it going to hurt him? Does it hurt him? Is it like, it's bad?
Sam: Not only does it not hurt him, he does not age or feel any pain.
Travis: A willing creature need not make a saving throw.
Taliesin: It's automatic, and no time passes.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to try it, and I'm going to try it, and just to see how he likes it. If he's okay with it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hey, buddy, come here.
Matt: As you turn around and look, you see there's a small puddle on the ground where Trinket has vomited up. He's pushing dirt over it.
Travis: Yeah, you got to teach him to quit rummaging, that is really foul.
Laura: What was that? Trinket, what did you eat? Don't eat the puke. Do not eat the puke. Come here.
Matt: Trinket's like scraping dirt over it.
Travis: Got a carrot on your chin.
Laura: Trinket. Do you want to go for a ride? You like rides? Yeah? You want to go for one? All right, sit still. This'll be fun. I don't know how to use it.
Taliesin: Just point, yep.
Laura: I point to him with the--
Sam: You should probably say something cool.
Laura: By the power vested in me, I now pronounce you my Pokemon. (laughter)
Matt: Words be damned. It takes you an action or so to activate the crystal, but as you do, Trinket gives a confused look before Trinket's shadow seems to crawl up his legs until it forms into this circle, this dark core, roughly half the size of Trinket's form, before it shoots into the crystal.
Laura: Is he about this size, but I don't like that one, is he about this size?
Matt: A little larger than that before he goes into the crystal, but once he's in the crystal, it's small.
Laura: Oh, it's a little crystal?
Liam: Trinkachu, I choose you.
Laura: (gasps) Oh my gosh. That's really fun. Okay. How do I let him go?
Marisha: I think you-- yeah.
Laura: I release you.
Matt: Okay. As you do that, once again the same dark energy you saw earlier spills out and hits the ground in front of you, and from that dark shadow area Trinket's form emerges, standing there looking really confused.
Laura: How was it? Did it hurt? Can you talk to him? You can still talk to him. Talk to him. Ask him if it hurt.
Matt: (vomiting noises) Vomits a little bit more on the ground.
Laura: Well, that's not good.
Marisha: You know, sometimes the teleportation makes you lose your lunch.
Laura: Ask him how he's doing.
Marisha: Trinket? You all right buddy? You all right, there?
Matt: "Feeling sick."
Laura: Ask him how the little car ride was, ask him if he liked the ride.
Marisha: How was the ride? Did you feel all right? How was--?
Matt: "Yeah?"
Laura: Okay, would you mind, ask him if he'd mind doing that on occasion, you know, whenever I need him to.
Marisha: What was it like in there? Was it--?
Matt: "I don't remember."
Marisha: Okay, that's good, that's good. Would you mind--
Laura: Ask him if he cares if I do it again, ask him if he cares.
Marisha: Would you mind doing that, you know, frequently? On occasion. MATT "If she wants me to, okay."
Laura: What did he say, what did he say? He looked really cute when he said something.
Marisha: You have a lot of men who will do anything for you.
Laura: Oh, buddy! I go and hug him really tight and scratch his ears.
Matt: You do, and avoid the little bit of--
Laura: --vomit on, I don't even care! Oh my gosh, thank you! This is the best, this is the best and we can travel with him, we can climb with him, we can sneak around.
Sam: Hey, and if Trinket isn't in it, you can also use it to capture baddies.
Laura: I know, it's great!
Taliesin: And because of the way that the projection works, you could also in theory capture a baddie and then let them loose off a cliff and watch them drop.
Laura: Oh my god.
Marisha: Oh my god, you're right.
Taliesin: It's very convenient.
Laura: Oh my gosh. Okay.
Matt: So. You have a crystal, you've set a wolf on a path.
Sam: Where are we going next?
Matt: Where are you going now?
Taliesin: Your home, I imagine.
Laura: Don't we need to--oh, yeah.
Sam: What's our to-do list?
Marisha: We don't have to worry about it. We can, it's fine.
Taliesin: Fire Ashari it is.
Sam: Wait, wait, wait. What are the things that we need to do?
Laura: We need to check in on Keyleth's family.
Sam: Cobalt Reserve, Ashari.
Laura: Grog's family.
Sam: Did we already take care of Osysa's mate, Frostweald?
Laura: No, but that's down--
Taliesin: That's far.
Marisha: That's the other Vestige, correct?
Laura: Yes, that's over by Grog's family.
Matt: That's information about the Vestiges.
Sam: We need to steal an airship.
Taliesin: I agree, that's still very important.
Travis: I can't remember where, what--
Laura: They were by Kraghammer.
Travis: Thank you. I'm having terrible hiccups.
Sam: What about, we need to find Kaylie at some point. We also need to, who's gone, where's Allu-- where's Ki-- where's people?
Laura: Allura should be here in like a day. She should be here very soon.
Travis: What's close to here? (hiccups)
Taliesin: Nothing's close, we're specifically far away from everything.
Marisha: But we can go wherever we want as long as we've been there before.
Travis: Well, we should definitely go to the Fire Ashari.
Taliesin: Fire Ashari is the next--
Laura: We should go to the Fire Ashari.
Marisha: Oh god, I'm immediately nauseous.
Matt: (bear noises)
Liam: That's two of us.
Marisha: Oh, Trinket, buddy. What time is it?
Laura: (laughs) Do you need some water?
Matt: It's still, with the travel to and from, it's middle afternoon, like one o'clock in the afternoon.
Taliesin: Take it.
Sam: If we're going to go, do we need anything before we leave? We got everything we need? Potions and stuff? Want to buy some meat for your cooler?
Laura: Yeah, let's get some meat.
Matt: It's pretty easy to go ahead and procure it, five gold of meat will fill that thing.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: So go ahead and mark five gold off your paper.
Sam: How much, could I buy a medical kit somewhere?
Matt: Yeah, you could find a general store and purchase a medical kit.
Sam: How much is that?
Matt: I'm going to look that up right now.
Sam: All right, whatever, I've got it.
Taliesin: It's nifty that you have a book that tells you how much something like that costs.
Matt: Imagine that. It's like it's a handbook of some kind, it's crazy.
Marisha: Does anyone have any fire-resistant items?
Laura: He does.
Liam: I do.
Laura: Put it on.
Marisha: I might pick up some fire resistant potions as well.
Travis: I have this black iron plate that I haven't used ever. 'While wearing this heavy plate 'armor, the bearer gains resistance to any fire damage.'
Matt: Five gold for an herbalist's kit for you.
Laura: Oh, plate armor, none of us can wear it but Pike.
Matt: An herbalist's kit, like five gold.
Sam: Can that stabilize people?
Matt: If used with a medicine check, yeah.
Laura: Okay, I have this, which I can't wear.
Taliesin: What is that?
Laura: It's a purple and black robe. It was Lady Briarwood's robes.
Taliesin: What does it do?
Laura: Clings to nearby darkness as you walk. While wearing this robe, you gain resistance to piercing damage. Anybody need pierce resistance that can wear robes?
Taliesin: I'm pretty reasonable.
Sam: Do I wear robes?
Matt: Robes would be worn instead of your armor.
Sam: No thanks.
Laura: What about Gloves of Missile Snaring? That appeal to anyone?
Sam: Missile snaring? What does that do?
Laura: These gloves seem to almost meld into your hands when you don them, and when a ranged weapon attack hits you, you can use your reaction to reduce the damage by 1d10 plus your dexterity modifier provided that you have a free hand. If you reduce the damage to zero, you can catch the missile if it's small enough to hold in that hand.
Taliesin: Does it require attuning?
Marisha: They're pretty sleek.
Laura: It requires two, no it just requires one free hand.
Taliesin: Yes, but does it require attuning?
Laura: Yes it does, it requires attuning.
Taliesin: I might be attuned out at this point.
Laura: Anybody? I feel like that could be cool for you, Scanlan.
Sam: I think I can take it?
Taliesin: What's your dex? Your dexterity is not very-- actually, it might work out well for me, weirdly enough.
Marisha: Are you fully attuned?
Taliesin: I can undo something that I'm not using.
Marisha: Percy, you have access here in Whitestone to alchemy supplies, correct?
Taliesin: Matt, I have access to alchemy supplies here in Whitestone, correct?
Matt: (laughs) I mean, there are elements of your initial workshop I guess, that a lot of supplies have been cannibalized but a few things can be pieced together. Plus there was a lot of alchemical elements and tools that were utilized in the subterranean tunnels as part of the refinement process for the whitestone residuum, the large vats of acid that were distilled by the Briarwoods while they were here, and there are other elements of their own tinkering in the alchemical arts that remain scattered throughout the castle. So yeah, you can definitely find enough to tinker with if you want.
Marisha: I mean, we could take the rest of the evening and I can attempt to make some fire resist potions.
Sam: Eh.
Travis: All right, here's what I'm thinking, right? I mean, if we go after my herd, we're in for a fight. A big one. If we go to your Fire Ashari, we're doing recon and hopefully learning something, right?
Marisha: Well, we're going to be in for a fight at the Fire Ashari as well because there's a giant sunder in the fire plane, and last time I checked there were fire imps and elementals pouring through there.
Travis: Are those bad?
Taliesin: Eh.
Marisha: They're annoying
Taliesin: As long as we're quick we can go about it.
Marisha: Well.
Sam: What's our mission?
Travis: You really want to get the rest of the testicles of--
Marisha: I mean, we could theoretically see if there are survivors and I can attempt to close the tear in the plane. I don't know if I can do that. However, I don't know anyone else particularly more qualified to attempt it.
Travis: Allura or that bearded dude.
Marisha: We're talking about the Fire Ashari and possibly what to do there.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: We can go and look for survivors--
Laura: And bring them here.
Marisha: And someone should probably close the tear in the fire plane.
Laura: Should we wait for Allura then, before we go?
Travis: Well, if there are survivors, they might not be that way for very long if we don't go.
Laura: They've been there for a while already.
Marisha: If there are survivors--
Laura: Then they're surviving.
Marisha: They've survived. I agree. It's not going to be pretty.
Taliesin: I know you don't want to go.
Marisha: I really don't.
Taliesin: But we need to go. I say we take the rest of the day. You make your potions, we leave first thing in the morning.
Laura: Wait for Allura, hopefully she'll be here by then.
Taliesin: Maybe Allura will join us by tomorrow morning. If not, we teleport over.
Matt: Okay, you guys are going to rest for the evening?
Travis: Wait, hold on, is there like a house of entertainment in Whitestone? I know it's just getting back on its feet but you know.
Matt: That would be a question more for Percival.
Travis: Percy? I'm having a bit of a soul struggle and I'm wondering if I might bend your ear for a moment.
Taliesin: Sure.
Travis: Yeah, could I speak to you over here?
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Travis: Right, so, like, I want to get my freak on.
Taliesin: I don't feel that way about you. (laughter)
Travis: Yeah, no, I, I'm sorry.
Taliesin: I mean, you're very attractive.
Travis: That was very unclear. So I know this is like your home and stuff and you might not have been aware of it, but they have these houses where like....
Taliesin: Oh, where you get your freak on!
Travis: Yes.
Taliesin: Yes. Yes, we have them.
Travis: Oh good, do you think they're still in order?
Taliesin: Oh, I imagine so.
Travis: Could you point me in that direction?
Taliesin: No, I have no idea where they are. I do know that they exist. I actually had things to do here. I didn't have time for these.
Travis: Oh yeah, me too, important things. I was thinking for Scanlan in case he gets bored, you know, you've got to keep him focused.
Taliesin: I wouldn't actually know where any of these places were, would I?
Matt: No, and those that did exist in this town have not been...
Taliesin: I figured as much. I'm just fucking with him. Okay. No.
Travis: Oh, okay, well, I'll let Scanlan know. Just keep it between you and me 'cause he's very sensitive about these things.
Taliesin: Your secret is safe with my indifference. That's fine.
Travis: Well, my, my, indifference
Taliesin: I know you do.
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: You're wonderful.
Marisha: Can I start telling that to people in real life?
Taliesin: Yes you can. I do it all the time.
Marisha: Yes. Your secret is safe with my indifference.
Travis: Okay. I'm going to rest.
Sam: Before we set off on this, is there anything closer or more pressing? I don't actually know why we're going to her place, but I'm fine with it.
Marisha: To look for survivors and close the giant tear in the fire plane that evil, well not evil, fiery entities are pouring through.
Taliesin: It's a hellmouth, it's basically a hellmouth.
Travis: It's either that or we go goliath hunting.
Laura: That's next.
Taliesin: But this is quick, this is something that we can knock off the list.
Sam: All right, let's knock it off.
Travis: Yeah, right, let's just check it off.
Liam: As we're walking through town, do I see any weaponsmiths?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: Okay.
Taliesin: I'll help you make the potions.
Liam: 21.
Matt: Okay, that'll help cut down on the time. 21? There are two functional smiths left in the town. There were two more than that overall, that were more like blacksmithy, but they both unfortunately lost their lives in the insurrection. But there are two functional blacksmiths in this, yeah.
Liam: And one's nearby, to pass through?
Matt: About a ten-minute diversion.
Liam: I'm splitting off from the group.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: We've got to get out of here.
Liam: One's in front of me now?
Matt: Well, you find your way to-- it's a small blacksmith, and most of it's outside. Though the day is growing late, you do see an older gentleman, long, tattered grey hair pulled into a very tight bun in the back and a beard that is actually tied off to the side. Otherwise it would be hanging down into his work. He's wearing soot-covered clothes, big leather apron, leather gloves, and he's currently in the process of (ping ping) turning over and hammering out a piece of orange glowing steel.
Liam: Excuse me, sorry to interrupt, I have a very simple request.
Matt: He doesn't stop. He seems to, he acknowledges your presence but he's still working as he's listening. (smithing sounds)
Liam: I have six gold burning a hole in my pocket. I'm not looking for anything simple. Do you have a short sword? A regular old shortsword.
Matt: (ting) He looks over at you. "If that's what you're looking for, on that wall over there we've got two shortswords." (ting)
Liam: What's the difference between the two that I can see?
Matt: (smithing sounds) That you can see? Make a perception check.
Liam: 22.
Matt: Looking over them both, from this distance, they're both made with different hilt designs and different pommel designs, the grips are a little different but other than that the blades are pretty much identical.
Liam: I grab one off the wall. I slap down six gold, which I know is way too much and say, thank you sir. Pelor lives here. And I walk away.
Matt: Okay, as you start walking away he goes, "Hey."
Liam: Yeah?
Matt: "You're going to pay proper for that shortsword."
Liam: Oh, I'm sorry. How much does it cost?
Matt: "12 gold pieces."
Liam: My apologies. 12?
Matt: "12 gold pieces, friend."
Liam: So I put down six. I put down another 14. I really apologize. I was just confused.
Matt: "It's all right. No harm no foul." Takes the gold and scoops it and puts it into his pouch. "Have a good day."
Liam: I walk down the street going like-- it's big.
Matt: It's much bigger than you're used to, but it's got a fine balance to it and it's well-made. All right, so as you guys have all--
Laura: I've got an opal dagger you could have used.
Liam: I don't need your dagger.
Taliesin: We're going to make our potions?
Matt: Yes, yes. All right, so.
Marisha: I have another question.
Matt: What is your other question?
Marisha: Before we all go to bed tonight can we get like a fuckton of the green stone under Whitestone?
Taliesin: There's really not a lot of it.
Marisha: Say like $1,000 worth and maybe have like a real nice Heroes' Feast before tomorrow?
Liam: Wise as fuck.
Laura: Or in the morning.
Liam: Heroes' Breakfast.
Marisha: I've got to do it at night, because I have to Tree Stride in the morning.
Matt: You can choose either to create the potion or to mine the residuum for the evening. You cannot do both. Both are time, like, to pull that material from the-- because most of it that remains has been already embedded within the ziggurat beneath. You would actually have to physically chip it from the structure.
Laura: I have a plan, Keyleth.
Marisha: Yes?
Laura: We will cover the 1,000 gold from our own party funds and have someone here mine some shit for us and give it to us later.
Marisha: I like that plan, yeah. Sounds good to me.
Sam: How about the wolf?
Taliesin: So potions.
Laura: Percival, do you have people here who can mine? Looking for work, people--?
Marisha: Yeah, sure, why not?
Taliesin: I'll let them know that they should start trying to pull the residuum out of the wall, but it's dangerous down there.
Laura: Yeah, it is.
Taliesin: And tampering with it is definitely...
Travis: Necessary.
Taliesin: Should be ginger. It would, I'm trying to keep everything ginger down there.
Laura: So maybe we should take 1,000 gold just from your family stores then, huh? That might be smarter.
Taliesin: We currently have 1,000 gold from my family stores that are in the group treasury at the moment.
Laura: Oh, we do. No, that's 500. That was just 500. Just so you know.
Taliesin: I feel like it was more than that.
Laura: No, it was just 500.
Liam: Hey, de Rolo, do you remember what happened yesterday?
Taliesin: He's not there.
Laura: Isn't he, though?
Taliesin: I was going to do such a nice thing for you, but never mind now.
Laura: (laughs) No, no, no, do something really nice for me.
Liam: Where did I go? Oh, I went to buy a shortsword.
Taliesin: No, never mind. You went to buy a shortsword.
Laura: Dear, dear, dear, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Do nice things. All right?
Taliesin: I'm trying to be gentle with my family right now. They're taking on an awful lot.
Laura: You're right. They're taking on so many people.
Taliesin: And we'll see what we can do.
Liam: I'd like to think you hear me in your mind.
Taliesin: Always fucking hear you in my mind.
Laura: Let's just use the damned party funds for the time being. It's fine, Keyleth. This is a really important feast.
Taliesin: We're busy making potions.
Laura: All right.
Matt: So you prepare a Heroes' Feast before you begin this potion-creation process? Is that what I understand or not?
Laura: What?
Marisha: Can I make some potions and then, like, I make dinner for us before we go to bed?
Matt: It's going to take you about the length of a day to create the potion, with his help it takes it to about half, so it'll be about 12 hours of creating. Eight to 12 hours. So.
Travis: Pick one.
Taliesin: Pick one.
Marisha: I'll do a damn feast.
Taliesin: No potion?
Matt: You can do the potion as well. The feast only takes a moment to cast.
Marisha: All right, okay. Yeah.
Matt: I'm just saying, be aware that you guys will probably have, if you want to get a full rest after that potion creation process, you're going to have to wait until like this time tomorrow, like late in the day to make your journey. Which is fine, if you're willing to be patient about it.
Travis: Sure.
Matt: Yes, no?
Travis: Say one, just say one.
Marisha: Yeah, let's do it, let's do it. Let's go in prepared and then we can always rest on that side.
Matt: Cool. For a fine, fine dinner.
Laura: Just want to make sure we feast right before we leave so that it's most useful.
Matt: All right, so. You, everyone else goes to sleep while you and Percy work tirelessly through the night. If I could have you--
Liam: Fuck!
Matt: (laughs) Just for the sake of it, I want you to go ahead and make an arcana check.
Marisha: Aw, an arcana? Do I get advantage because of my little skill in alchemy? I'm skilled in alchemy.
Matt: Yeah. Oh, that's right you are, never mind, go ahead and do that.
Matt: Proficiency bonus, are you proficient in alchemy?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So proficiency bonus, and for this, use intellect modifier.
Marisha: Okay. Intellect, which makes it plus seven. Do I have advan-- ooh, I rolled a natural 19.
Matt: Okay. We'll say, for the fair cost of, reduced due to the roll, 450 gold pieces, you create a potion of resistance of your choice of resistance.
Marisha: Just one?
Matt: Just one.
Marisha: Fire.
Matt: It takes a long time, man.
Marisha: Fire!
Matt: Fire, all right. You create a potion of fire resistance. The materials cost you 450 gold to create, you finish it by about sunrise the next day. Everyone else begins slowly waking up after the night's rest as you guys both, bags under your eyes.
Laura: Oh, that was a good night's sleep, I tell you what.
Travis: Seriously.
Sam: Keyleth, could you--
Marisha: What? Oh, god, you snuck up on me.
Sam: Could you make me some tea real quick?
Marisha: Scanlan.
Sam: What?
Marisha: Go fuck yourself.
Sam: What, you were up before me, I thought--
Taliesin: All right. All right, this is fine.
Marisha: This is fine.
Taliesin: This is good.
Marisha: This is great.
Matt: You're doing a Heroes' Feast for breakfast, then? Is that how it's working?
Marisha: I'll take a nap. I'll cook breakfast, guys, good morning. Good morning!
Laura: Oh hey, good morning, Keyleth!
Sam: Why don't you sleep during the day, we'll all take our feast, and then blast off at night time?
Marisha: Because I have to teleport and cooking this feast are both 6th-level spells and I can only do one of those a day.
Travis: Man, it's hard being a druid.
Laura: Can anybody else make a feast? That's here?
Marisha: Pike. Pike. Pike?
Sam: She's with Gilmore.
Travis: She's not here.
Laura: (sighs) I miss Pike.
Liam: We all miss Pike.
Marisha: I'll cook breakfast, guys.
Laura: No, I'll cook breakfast. No, I won't cook breakfast.
Liam: That's a good idea, for you to not cook breakfast.
Matt: What's the plan?
Marisha: I'm cooking breakfast!
Matt: Are you cooking breakfast or are you summoning breakfast? That's my question.
Laura: Are you summoning breakfast and then you're sleeping and then we're leaving?
Marisha: I'm summoning-- yes, I'm summoning breakfast and then I'm sleeping.
Laura: And then you're sleeping and then we're leaving as soon as you wake up.
Matt: Okay, that's what I was wondering. We got the answer, okay, cool. Hoo, today's been a slog. All right, so you go ahead and you use Heroes' Feast, summoning forth a fantastical breakfast meal filled with coffee and eggs and everything you would hope for, the finest materials.
Laura: Froot Loops!
Matt: (laughs) Sure, Froot Loops is on the menu, why not?
Taliesin: Lucky Charms.
Matt: No Lucky Charms, sorry, those aren't available on Tal'Dorei. But yes, all you guys take an hour to finish devouring this, you finish your meal, all you guys get a 2d10 hit point maximum increase to your hit points.
Laura: Ooh, ooh, greens, greens!
Matt: And immune to poison, frightened, and all wisdom saving throws have advantage.
Travis: Damn!
Sam: Advantage on wisdom.
Matt: Yes, the usual.
Travis: Almost broke.
Marisha: And wisdom.
Laura: And you're immune to fear, right?
Marisha: Immune to fear, poison, and what else?
Matt: And you get advantage on wisdom saving throws.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: After which, Percy and Keyleth pretty much fall asleep at the table as it vanishes and they both collapse to the ground, eggs out of the corner of their mouth. Eventually they make themselves back up to sleep and the rest of you guys peter around for the remainder of the day while they get their full rest. It now comes to, at the end of that eight-hour period of time, I'd say about three, four in the afternoon before they finally wake up. You've restored your spells.
Marisha: Yay!
Matt: And the rest of you are ready to go about your business.
Laura: Let's go, let's go, let's go.
Liam: Wait! While they're sleeping, right--
Matt: Mm-hmm?
Liam: I take Scanlan aside.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oi.
Liam: Hey, buddy.
Sam: Hey, friendo.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: What's up?
Liam: We don't talk a lot.
Sam: Well, we start to and then you leave the room, usually. (laughter)
Liam: I don't handle personal emotional confrontation very well.
Sam: It's okay. I walk away. (laughter)
Marisha: Oh, shit!
Sam: Then I come back, I feel bad.
Taliesin: No, no, that was perfect.
Liam: Where did you go?
Sam: Just kidding, just kidding.
Liam: Pull up a chair, sit down, I want to ask you something.
Sam: I'm already as low as I can go.
Liam: You're right. How do you do it?
Sam: How do I do what?
Liam: How do you do it? You're risking your life as much as anyone in this group, you're almost dying every day. You're fucking smiling all the time. How do you do it? I'm kind of asking as Liam to Sam as well, but mostly as Vax to Scanlan. How do you do it? You almost died yesterday as well. Or two days ago, fuck. Why do you do it?
Sam: Well, Vax. I don't know, I mean, I like you people, okay? Everything before this was not as good. This is better. That's why. It's very simple. You had a shitty childhood, didn't you? You and the sister?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: I think Grog had some troubles. We've all had our share of shit before we all met. Now we're together, we're a family, this is better. That's how I smile. It's better than it was before. That's it.
Liam: We're probably going to die in the next month.
Sam: Yes, but it's fun while it lasts.
Liam: All right. Thought I might--
Sam: Glean some wisdom?
Liam: Yeah, but I'm just as confused as before.
Sam: Listen, I'm older than you.
Liam: How much older?
Sam: A bit. I've seen more than you have. And it's all shitty, so it just depends on how you look at it. You can dwell on the shit, or you can just leave it behind in people's beds and keep going.
Marisha: Oh god, that works on too many levels.
Taliesin: Oh god, that's too deep.
Marisha: Too deep.
Liam: You did that. Water under the bridge.
Sam: I walk away.
Liam: That little motherfucker shit in my bed.
Matt: All right. As you regather your will, path chosen; Keyleth, do you wish to prepare the transportation spell?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Let's do this.
Matt: All right. All of you gather and find your way down to the Sun Tree in the center of the town. At this point, it's later afternoon, you've been growing accustomed these past few days of taking action right around dusk, and as the sky turns from a blue to a bit of an orangish hue, you all find yourselves ready to transition back over to the continent of Issylra.
Marisha: Let's go. To the Sun Tree.
Matt: Keyleth steps forward, touches her hand to the Sun Tree, completes her mental incantation, and you watch the trunk once again tear open into the somewhat oval walkway into the tree itself. On the opposite side, what's your destination?
Marisha: Oh, god. As close as I can get to the Fire Ashari, I guess.
Matt: Okay. You recall, passing through, there were a number of trees towards the base of the mountain that were starting to grow petrified from the proximity to the ash that constantly falls from the sky. They died a long time ago and are slowly beginning to petrify. As the portal opens up on the opposite side, you can see beyond that the dark rock that formulates that mountain range. At the same time, you can see a dull orange glow, and you all begin to step through in rapid succession, Trinket racing up after Vex. All of you find yourself stepping out the other side, at which point you look up and you can see the pathway that you took towards the top of the mountain where the Fire Ashari called Pyrah, where they maintained their ever-vigilant watch on the tear into the fire elemental plane. What you do notice immediately is that the path that you took initially is no longer a simple walkway. Against the now very dark sky, this side of the realm itself, night is, actually, no, sorry. At this point, you've actually beaten the sun.
Marisha: Oh, do we gain a few hours?
Matt: Yeah, you guys have gained a few hours, technically.
Marisha: Awesome.
Matt: So it's still light in the sky from other parts in the distance, however, there is a perpetual dark cloud of smoke and actual storm cloud gathering across this mountain range. As you recall the first time you were here, that's the nature of Pyrah, it's always under this thick, heavy, soot-and-ash-filled cloud cover. The pathway that winds up the mountain, though, is instead a glowing orange mass of slowly dribbling molten rock that has filled that entire walkway, and it has come to rest at the base of the mountain where it has gathered and begun to cool. You guys are hundreds of feet off from this point as you step out of the tree. However, where you see the molten rock has reached the base of the mountain, you-- it's cooled and formed into solid rock at its base, and you start seeing flashes of the orange turning dark, then another section turns dark from the opposite side. And then a few moments pass and you can see the orange of the next section, up in like ten-foot segments, it's going dark and hardening on its own. You get the sense that your arrival did not trigger this more than it has been happening since before you arrived.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to figure out what's up?
Matt: Sure. Actually, this would be a perception check to see if you can ascertain.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16. It's difficult to make out at this distance, but you can see, along portions of the jagged mountainside, a collection of small figures that are making their way up the mountain, and their slow ascent is met with the lava flow cooling in sections.
Marisha: Do they look like people, like humanoids?
Matt: It's hard to tell from this distance, they look human-ish, humanoid-ish.
Taliesin: I attempt to use the optics on my gun to get a better look at them.
Matt: Sure, go ahead and make a perception check.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18. A little bit of a clearer look through, they do appear to be humanoid. You do see two arms, two legs. You can't gauge size comparison from this distance.
Sam: How far?
Matt: At this point, they're probably a good 800 feet up the mountain.
Marisha: 800 feet?
Taliesin: Are they dressed like the Ashari that I've met?
Matt: From what you can make out, their color palette shifts, there are reds and browns, some stand out as an aquamarine white. The Ashari you saw were a pretty consistent color palette. This is a little more varied.
Taliesin: I don't know who these people are.
Marisha: They could still be Ashari. Just in their elemental forms. Are there any birds around? I look up, do I see birds in the sky?
Matt: There are no birds in the sky. Unfortunately, because of the nature of this area, especially as the oppressive fumes and dust continue to pour off from the top of the caldera of this mountain range, it has made it not fitting for any sort of aerial life that you're used to seeing. You glance around for about a minute or two and you don't see any sort of bird life in the air.
Travis: Did the ground cool where they were walking? Could we follow them up?
Taliesin: We should.
Marisha: Let's stay far behind. Let's go quietly.
Laura: Let's walk. Stealth? I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: Okay. Everyone make a stealth check, including Trinket.
Travis: You don't want to put him in the thing?
Sam: You could.
Laura: (gasps) Okay.
Liam: Try it out.
Laura: I put it on a string so I could put it around my neck because it's a necklace because it's cooler that way.
Matt: Well, it has a chain on it that it came with.
Laura: It's got a chain on it, so it's around my neck.
Matt: All right, so you take it, you put--
Sam: It has a chain and a string now.
Matt: Chain and string.
Marisha: The string's so you don't forget.
Matt: Exactly. You trigger the necklace, pointing it in the direction of Trinket, and once again Trinket is absorbed into the crystal, vanishing within the inside. All right.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17.
Sam: Pass Without a Trace is--?
Travis: Plus ten. I rolled shitty.
Laura: 30.
Liam: 35.
Marisha: 32.
Taliesin: 29.
Sam: 25.
Matt: Okay. You guys begin making your trek up. How are you going up the mountain? Are you scaling the cooled flow?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: That's probably the safest route given the fact that most of the other side of the mountain range itself is pretty jagged, and elements of it, because of the formation of this giant volcanic caldera, there are portions of broken stone and obsidian glass that sticks out the side.
Marisha: As we're walking up, I fall behind and I slip Vax the potion of fire protection.
Matt: All right. You guys continue in pace with this, eventually, and make another perception check?
Marisha: Much better, that's a natural 19. 30.
Matt: 30. Okay. Looking up, as this cluster of individuals makes their way towards the very top of the mountain, seemingly not taking sight of your traveling group, you're beginning to see the nature of each section of this flow cooling. And what you're seeing is the group will move up a bit, stop, and there appears to be a burst of-- sometimes it looks like very strong wind, sometimes it looks like a very localized sleet storm that is brought against the side of the mountain and is actually forcefully cooling the flow down temporarily, at least in those sections, before it begins to spill over and continue its slow molten descent, but they're doing their best to continue to force it back up the mountain and--
Laura: Those are druids.
Marisha: Those are druids.
Marisha: I cast Skywrite in the clouds above us, in the smoke.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I write--
Laura: "So, how are you guys doing up there?"
Taliesin: "Hi."
Marisha: "Hi. Hey you guys." I write, in druidic symbols, "Keyleth, Kaitiaki."
Sam: What's that? Is that her?
Matt: Okay. You notice the pace in which this group has ascended comes to a halt at the very, very top of the mountain range where it ends, and there's a slight pause before the clouds shift a second time and it says, from what you understand, "Kaitiaki. Survivors remain, Keyleth."
Marisha: And I respond with, "Help has arrived."
Sam: You guys are texting?
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Matt: Druid texting.
Laura: What are you saying?
Taliesin: Stop looking at your phone.
Laura: What do they say?
Sam: Why don't we go over there and talk to them?
Marisha: They're survivors.
Travis: Well, let's go.
Laura: Are they nice?
Marisha: They're survivors. What does it matter?
Travis: And we go.
Marisha: Let's go. And I tell them, you know, "Arriving. Stand down. Here we come."
Taliesin: "Lol."
Marisha: "Lol. Winky-face."
Liam: As we travel, because I was too out of it to respond and she's way ahead, I take the potion that Keyleth gave to me, because she didn't have to, I've got the David Bowie armor on now.
Matt: You did don it. Okay.
Liam: Yes, yeah. Before going to bed.
Marisha: Oh you did, okay.
Liam: And I press it into Vex's hand.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hey, I took your, all right, I'm going to take it.
Matt: What was your choice of resistance? I assume it was fire. Okay. All right. As you guys progress up, and it is, though it is a safe route, it is still a relatively steep incline and you're all having to work together to find handholds, and it is very arduous physically getting up there. I would like everyone to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Laura: A constitution?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Oh, do we get advantage because of the feast?
Travis: No, that's only wisdom.
Laura: Shit.
Liam: Come on, Colville meteorite die.
Travis: 17.
Liam: I'm so weak.
Laura: Come on, jade.
Liam: Natural 20!
Laura: You motherfucker!
Liam: Thank you, Matthew Colville.
Laura: I'm rolling my giant jade dice, because it's green.
Travis: Way to announce it.
Laura: Womp-womp. Oh, that's a six.
Travis: (laughs) You're fucked.
Marisha: 20.
Taliesin: 13.
Sam: Five.
Matt: Okay. As you guys begin to get partially up the mountain, the proximity of the heat from the-- because the exterior of the rock has cooled, but it's still molten beneath and there are parts of that are still cracking open, and bits of the heat are still pouring through, plus the general physical exertion from the not-very-hardy physiques of both Vex and Scanlan, you both suffer one level of exhaustion from the ascent up the side of this mountain.
Laura: Oh, Trinket's in his thing, he's not worried at all.
Taliesin: I don't actually know what one level of exhaustion is.
Matt: You guys have disadvantage on ability checks. All your skill checks right now, until your next long rest, are at disadvantage.
Travis: Levels of exhaustion suck.
Sam: Not saving.
Matt: However, as you guys are approaching towards the top, you can see now the humanoids that were at the top of this mountain crest have been since keeping the flow at bay and each time it begins to crest over again and continue its flow, it's blasted again from the side and cools and it's building this very, very slow gradual outcropping--
Marisha: I use my cantrip Gust and cool areas alongside as we ascend.
Matt: Okay. You glance up and you now have a better view of this group, and what you do see ahead of you, specifically Keyleth, appears to be a cluster of about eight or so Fire Ashari-dressed individuals. You can't make out their physical details yet. Along with five other entities that are dressed in the colors and vestments of those from Zephrah.
Marisha: Oh shit!
Travis: From who? From what?
Liam: What's the matter?
Laura: What's up? What's happening?
Marisha: I run up.
Matt: Keyleth goes running up.
Marisha: You said seven or eight from Zephrah?
Matt: There are five from Zephrah.
Laura: Are we going to, we're going to follow?
Liam: Yeah, I'm breaking out of stealth and running.
Taliesin: Ah. Yeah. No. We're running now.
Laura: I walk. I'm pretty tired. You and me. Let's just walk.
Sam: Yeah. You can carry me.
Taliesin: Cardio. God.
Matt: Okay, it takes a while to get up there. As you guys begin to approach, a little bit behind Keyleth, and you look, you see the only two notable Fire Ashari that you see there are Nastoen, which is a human female that you saw was one of the four that first greeted you as you approached Pyrah when you got to the mountaintop. She looks a little rough, but she's definitely in one piece. The other one that greets you, and immediately you recognize as Flamespeaker Cerkonos, who currently does not have his right arm. It is charred and is, through some semblance of flame, cauterized to where he no longer has a shoulder and part of his torso is a black mass of burnt skin, probably intentionally, but as you approach he puts his hand out and goes, "Hail, Keyleth."
Marisha: Hail, Cerkonos. And I run up and give him a hug.
Matt: He pats you on the back and there's a coldness to his look, his expression. You can see in a brief instant, though there is strength and determination, there is a moment as he looks into your face that you can see the sorrow of losing most of his people.
Marisha: And I look back at him and I say  I'm so sorry.
Matt: "This is not your fault. We had this coming. We are the able-bodied few you see."
Marisha: Are these all that have survived?
Matt: "We are 25 living. The rest reside at the base of the mountain, to be watched, or are the watchers. But our attrition is of our own making. We helped outsiders too long ago."
Marisha: What? What do you mean, like, how long ago? 12, 15 years?
Matt: "We helped seal a drake in this rift."
Laura: Thordak.
Matt: "That is the name they call him. We helped bring and bind the beast to this rift, sealing within it the heart of a primordial flame, one of the few pure essence crystals of our plane. Such a binding will not allow it to leave. It is a punishment for the most terrible of evils that the Ashari take under their order. We carved from the crystal in bind. This beast was too strong and took the entire crystal, but it seemed enough. It seemed enough."
Marisha: Cerkonos, it's not your fault. There are greater forces at work here, beyond us. That's something that I am desperately trying to reassure myself of every day.
Matt: And a voice comes up from over the mountain range, raspy, older, and with a casual importance to it, and it says, "So, are you claiming some semblance of dealing with this?" And as it steps over, the face looks down with recognition. "My god. Keyleth."
Marisha: Who are you?
Matt: You guys look up and you see long, silver-haired half-elf in later years dressed in the blue and white robes of the Air Ashari. You see before you Korren, your father. "You live."
Marisha: Dad!
Matt: He steps forward and goes in, as he steps away from Cerkonos, takes you in his arms and holds you extremely tight against him.
Marisha: I'm sorry I didn't check in sooner. I didn't want you to be disappointed.
Matt: "Shh." He puts his finger up to your lips, holds you back and looks you over and with a smile on his face, you can see the hardness of his expression fade. "Keyleth, you've grown."
Marisha: A lot's happened.
Matt: "You look just like her."
Marisha: I haven't found Mom.
Matt: "Her path was her own. I'm just glad that you have maintained yours." He wipes the tear from your face and says, "How goes the Aramente?"
Marisha: Well.
Laura: She's kicking ass.
Matt: "Good. Good." And he places his thumb at the corner of his eye. "We were called naught but a day ago by the surviving Pyrah. Told of the angry mountain and the terrible drake that sundered the rift. I helmed the team while the majority of our people stayed to keep Zephrah cloaked and safe from the marauding beast. We've only just made our way up the mountain. Your arrival is quite fortuitous, as we need all the help we can get."
Sam: How can we be of assistance?
Matt: "Come. See what remains of Pyrah." He turns around and walks back over towards the top of the mountain.
Marisha: Daddy.
Matt: He stops. Looks over his shoulder towards you. "Yes?"
Marisha: It's good to see you again, father.
Matt: "It's good to see you as well, daughter. Now come. Show me what you've learned." Goes back to walking. The rest of the Fire Ashari stand up, acknowledge and recognize those of you that stand here before, visiting once before. Cerkonos looks about. "You show strength and honor by coming here in our time of need. This will not be forgotten. Now come." As you follow them up over the top of the mountain, you see once again before you the caldera of this once-volcanic mountain has been blown apart in areas. You can see sections of large black stone that are now pushed up into jagged obelisks where once was a relatively smooth blackened shale countryside. You can see there are pits of molten rock that have been punched through the floor and have gathered into these pools where the air above is slowly shifting and warped by the heat that is now released above the mountaintop. The flow of lava that descends down the side of this mountain continues and swells and heads inward towards the Cindergrove. The Cindergrove, from what you can see from this distance, is but a fraction of what was once there, most of the trees now torn apart and scattered amongst the top of this mountain. You can see bits and pieces of the various petrified trees thrown hundreds of feet from the center. There are still standing, defiant trees amongst what once was the Cindergrove, but they are very sparse, many of them now blackened by what you can see in the very distance beyond the broken huts and homes that once held the Pyrah, you can see in the distance moving, glowing dots of various elemental energies spiraling outward from a very large central red rift that sits there pulsing and pulsing with bright, almost sunlight energy. It's like staring into the sun at the very zenith of its movement. You have to avert your eyes even staring towards this rift, now a good 30, 40 feet taller than it was when you last returned here. What was once the portal in the ground has now ruptured and is emerging, slowly piercing out of the top of this mountain. Undaunted, your father and the other Ashari continue walking forward with no words.
Laura: I rush forward a little bit to talk to him. Question. Your majesty? I want to help, we all want to help as much as possible, but I don't know any magic. Most of us don't. Are we going to be able to do anything?
Matt: "Well, I certainly hope so. If you've survived this long with my daughter, you've picked up a few tricks."
Laura: Well, that I have.
Marisha: Father, I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for these people. They are the most capable that I know.
Matt: "This is good. Because that's who we need right now."
Marisha: However, since we're druids, we're a little bit more, you know. Geared. Prepared to deal with the fire. I can cast Protection from Energy on a couple of these people, if you wouldn't mind maybe grabbing the other two?
Matt: "I will do what I can."
Marisha: And I cast Protection from Fire on Percy, you have it, you have it, do you have it?
Travis: Well, I really don't even know what I'm going to do here.
Marisha: Well, it's going to protect you from fire.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: Scanlan?
Sam: Hit me, babe.
Marisha: I'll do Percy and Scanlan. Father, can you--?
Matt: It's a concentration spell, so you can only really have one person going, and that's your concentration.
Marisha: Can only have one person going.
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Well, good.
Marisha: I could cast it at higher levels. Can I cast it at higher levels?
Travis: I'll take a mulligan on this one.
Marisha: Can't do that with this one? Fuck.
Laura: Do Scanlan. Do Scanlan.
Sam: No, I'm fine, don't worry about me.
Marisha: Well, I'm going to cast it on myself, for starters. Because I want it.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: So I'm going to cast Protection from Fire on myself.
Laura: What does a potion of fire resistance do?
Liam: Halves.
Laura: The same thing?
Laura: Halves all fire damage?
Marisha: Halves all fire damage?
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. As the cluster of you begin stepping deeper into the caldera, you begin to approach the outskirts of the remnants of the Pyrah tribe's homestead. You can see where most of it has been either completely burnt to a cinder or lies tattered by some great force, shattered. And you start, as you're walking through, you can see where the landscape itself, all the jagged bits of black obsidian glass are shooting up out of the ground and there's broken pieces of the dark rock and volcanic material, and it isn't until your eyes begin to focus that you realize that elements of this rock is not rock at all but the twisted and charred remains of the Pyrah that didn't escape in time, blending in with the ground and landscape surrounding. The rest of the Ashari continue pushing forward, not taking notice, focused, as before you, you can see the rift, still blinking ever-bright, in the center of the remains of the Cindergrove. You steel yourselves.
Marisha: I turn and I look at them and nod and follow in my people's footsteps.
Matt: And that's where we'll end tonight's session.
Travis: Oh shit.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: Okay. We're cooking with gas now.
Laura: As Marisha collapses in a pool of tears.
Taliesin: Cry more, cry more!
Matt: You knew this was coming.
Laura: Yeah, man. You're going to have a headache tomorrow, dude.
Marisha: I'm so tired. I'm tired.
Laura: Aw, we've got exhaustion, Sam. That's balls.
Sam: Yeah, that's not great.
Liam: Thanks for tuning in to Therapy Thursday, everyone.
Travis: Where we take shits and talk to swords.
Laura: There you go.
Matt: Got a little bit of column A, little bit of column B, we got some drama, we got some personal issues, we got some reunions, we got some hardships, we got--
Taliesin: Wild animals.
Laura: Yeah, so many things!
Matt: And a travel method for Trinket.
Laura: Oh my god, I'm so excited about it!
Matt: I wasn't sure how you guys were going to use that one, as soon as you mentioned it I was like, all right, that's what they're doing. That's a way to do it. Yeah. Well cool, guys, we'll be back next week Thursday with Chris Hardwick, who will be joining us as a guest.
Laura: Yay!
Marisha: How is he going to be here?
Taliesin: As himself. He's going to be playing himself, it's going to be very exciting.
Travis: Guys, I'm a human. Usually.
Liam: I'm super busy, I'm super busy.
Taliesin: Out of the rift suddenly comes Chris Hardwick.
Marisha: Super busy, but I'm super successful.
Liam: I'll help save the world, but I got like 50 things on my schedule.
Matt: Yeah, so we'll be back then. I think April 21st is going to be our 50th episode. We're going to be doing a fun little evening there. We'll have Critmas coming up, probably end up being that night, maybe another night that week, we'll have details coming up soon, we're trying to figure out the schedule on that. This'll be our big 50th anniversary Critmas blowout, and then we're going to scale it back to like an annual-type event it looks like, both to save the people who work this channel Thursday nights and stay super later to get here, to save the length of the episodes, and to help all of us who have to then go to work sometimes very early the next morning.
Liam: We love you, but I need to sleep. It's as simple as that. We love you, and we love Critmas, but it's a health thing.
Matt: So what we'll be doing is this will be our big blowout Critmas, we'll still do it probably for the holidays, and we really implore you guys to give to charities, send us stuff, we still read them, we'll still do Periscopes, those of us who get gifts, some of us will open them on Periscope for you, so we'll still have the interaction, we'll have to do it on our own time and not at 11, midnight.
Travis: 12, 12 30.
Liam: 12 37.
Taliesin: On a 7AM call.
Matt: So this'll be our big general blowout. So if you're planning something for the next Critmas, this'll be the one to get it in for. But yeah, you can check out the guide to Critmas on Geek & Sundry, it has a list of all our supported charities if you want to give there. It's highly recommended. Thank you guys so much for those who donated to 826 tonight so we can go ahead and help out the Seattle branch.
Marisha: 826 Seattle! We love you.
Matt: And yeah. Do we have anything else?
All: Happy St. Patty's Day.
Laura: You guys are hopefully sitting at home being very good.
Liam: For fuck's sake, take an Uber.
Matt: All right, guys. Well, have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? Bye!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around playing Dungeons and Dragons and say inappropriate things before the camera starts.
Travis: Every time!
Matt: Anyway, we have back in person our illustrious rogue, Vax'ildan.
Travis: Welcome back, baby!
Matt: Happy to have you back. Let's get through our announcements quickly so we can hop into the game, because we have a lot to discuss. A lot of things to see. A lot of places to go. First and foremost, if we can give an awesome shout-out to our sponsor Loot Crate. Once again been awesome to the show. Once again, they have their theme this month. Sam, did you want to say a thing or two?
Sam: The theme this month is Sam. (laughter)
Sam: It's an odd theme. It's all shirts that I've worn. No, the theme this month for Loot Crate is the anti-hero. That's part of the Loot Crate theme and the Loot Wear theme. Not just the box, but the bag as well. But you know what I love?
All: What do you love, Sam?
Sam: I love toys. I love socks. I love shirts. I love posters. I love collectibles. I love pins. I love boxes. And I love deals. And you can get all of those things in combination if you get a subscription to Loot Crate. If you use lootcrate.com/-- that's a forward slash-- CriticalRole, you will be instantly shown a showcase of all the Loot Crate offerings. And you'll get three, not one, not two, a little less than four, but $3 off a monthly subscription.
Laura: It's just the first month. It's just $3 off the very first month.
Sam: Well, that's not as good. (laughter)
Sam: But let's be real, it's still pretty good.
Travis: Where'd you get that great t-shirt you're wearing?
Sam: I am the best at advertising. (laughter)
Taliesin: Why did you have those notes with you?
Sam: (clears throat) Goodbye, Loot Crate. (laughter)
Sam: $3 off the first month is great, though. It's still great. It's still a good intro. It's essentially like getting-- I don't know, I'm done.
Laura: It's $3 just for writing a word.
Liam: It gets you in, and when you're in, you don't want to get out.
Travis: And they got really good stuff. You got your t-shirt from Loot Crate, Voltron.
Sam: Oh! I'm wearing a Loot Crate t-shirt right now. It fits. It makes me look strong and handsome.
Matt: It's true. It's true. If that $3 can buy you a six-inch sandwich at an undisclosed location where sandwiches can be constructed, purchased by artisans.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: Thank you so much, Sam.
Sam: Sure, I did really good.
Matt: You did great, Sam. That was wonderful. Taliesin, you're handling it next week.
Taliesin: (groans) Okay. (laughter)
Matt: All right, next announcements. Two weeks from now, the first Thursday of September, I myself, Marisha, and Taliesin will be out of town. We'll be in the middle of the desert. However, the rest of the crew here will be playing a one-shot game, dungeon mastered by our wonderful, recently proven skilled dungeon master here, Liam O'Brien.
Liam: I'm all growed up.
Matt: Somehow in the canon world of Exandria. So we'll see how that plays out for you guys. I'm really excited to see what you pull together, man.
Liam: I have something very delightful planned.
Matt: So that'll be fun. So look forward to that in a couple of weeks. We'll be thinking of you guys while we're not here, but watch this guy be evil. It's going to be great. Anything else anyone wants to discuss?
Liam: I would like to announce that I am so goddamn happy to be back in this room.
Travis: Yeah! Back in the pilot chair.
Sam: Wait a second, pilot chair?
Marisha: Just don't think about it too much.
Matt: Can I also point out today that the official World of Warcraft Twitter made a Critical Role joke?
Taliesin: Is that true?
Matt: Someone sent them a piece of fanart that had a Jaina and an Illidan talking, and the Critical Role, or the response to me from World of Warcraft, was: the Legion is coming towards you. How do you want to do this? That made me happy. So let's dive in to tonight's episode of chaos and heroic whim.
Liam: What's going to happen?
Matt: Out here, we dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. Last we left off, Vox Machina, in their search for the Vestiges of Divergence to gain artifacts powerful enough to rival, hopefully, the power of the Chroma Conclave, a group of chromatic dragons that have been terrorizing the countryside of Tal'Dorei. The party has just finished their journey through the Feywild, a strange, magically overgrown realm of fey creatures, illusion, and apparently, corrupt tree-bros. After a fight with this long-mentally disturbed fey, heartbroken and driven to vengeance and soiling the land around him, you defeated him and took from him the bow, Fenthras, which you've been seeking. Your Vestige, Vex.
Laura: That's right. That's right.
Matt: You then gathered hands and through the magical capabilities of Keyleth, the druid of the Air Ashari, you managed to Plane Shift the rest of the party back to Whitestone itself. Speaking of which--
Laura: Already? Already?
Marisha: How long have we been gone?
Matt: All right, and I also need Scanlan, Percy, and Grog to roll wisdom saving throws.
Sam: What did we do to deserve that?
Taliesin: We all deserve it. We know we do. That was terrible. I have a thing called Resolve and I have one usage of it left. May I use it?
Matt: You get to reroll a saving throw? Yeah, you may.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: Would this be magic, Matt?
Taliesin: That's double.
Marisha: Goddamn it.
Matt: It's a magical effect.
Travis: We're in trouble.
Sam: If it's not magic, then I have an 11.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Guys, drama needs conflict.
Taliesin: Eight.
Travis: Six.
Laura: Oh my god!
Liam: Hot damn!
Taliesin: I'm so excited.
Matt: No. As the portal shifts closed behind you, you all step out into the center of the Whitestone city square. You can see behind you the Sun Tree where you guys left originally. It is midday. Clouds are high in the sky. Little breaks where you can see beams of sunlight coming through. Looks like there's a darker rainstorm coming, probably in the next half-day or so, off in the distant northwest, and there are now townspeople looking about at the group of you guys. Keyleth, Scanlan, Vex, and Vax: returning, your mind feels a little fuzzy, but overall nothing seems to have affected you. You're glad to be back. Percy and Grog, you are very confused how you got here and not quite sure why nothing has happened since you gathered here as friends. Yes?
Taliesin: So do we have a straight piece of missing time? Are we still waiting to go to the Feywild?
Matt: As far as you guys know right now, you guys are still waiting.
Marisha: That's horrible for Percy. You've wanted to go your whole fucking life!
Travis: All right, I'm ready to go!
Taliesin: How long does this spell take?
Travis: Yeah, do we have to wait long, because I have the pee. You know? Where you're like hide-and-go-seek pee?
Taliesin: I did, but I feel fine now.
Laura: Ready to go to the actual castle?
Travis: Feywild.
Liam: Keyleth just brought us back. We're back.
Laura: We're back from the Feywild.
Taliesin: You're a terrible liar. (laughs)
Liam: That's true, but it's irrelevant. What the fuck are you talking about?
Taliesin: What are you talking about?
Marisha: Does the name Garmelie ring a bell?
Laura: If he doesn't remember we went, does that mean I lose my title?
Liam: Maybe you can work it out?
Marisha: You titled Vex'ahlia.
Taliesin: I did what?
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: You gave Vex'ahlia a title in your Whitestone kingdom. She was the Duchess of some hut.
Taliesin: Can someone who can't successfully lie to me please explain to me what's going on?
Laura: Baroness. Lady Vex'ahlia, Baroness of the Third House of Whitestone, Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt.
Taliesin: How do you know about the Grey Hunt?
Laura: I don't know anything about the Grey Hunt, but it's written down on a piece of paper you gave me, Percy.
Taliesin: Is it written on a piece of paper?
Marisha: It is written on a piece of paper.
Laura: That I actually threw out because I fixed up my notes. So I don't have the piece of paper in this world binder.
Travis: What a dicklord. You did not throw out the paper.
Marisha: Someone wrote it down, right?
Travis: You piece of shit. Why did you throw it away? What a fucking--
Taliesin: This is how I know you're lying, because if I had written that down, you wouldn't have thrown it away. That's ridiculous.
Laura: No, no, it's definitely right here.
Liam: Are you certain you're not trying to do comedy right now?
Taliesin: I feel funny. I don't know-- for the sake of actual sanity, does she actually have the piece of paper that he wrote down?
Sam: Did he write something down?
Taliesin: I did, I wrote it down for her and handed to her.
Laura: He did, and it's just, it's in my-- so I don't have it.
Matt: You would've had it with you. You would've definitely had it with you. And yeah, she does.
Laura: I would still have it. It's just not in this particular not-in-that-world binder.
Liam: It's not in this realm.
Sam: The binder that Vex carries is much, much better.
Taliesin: It's got like fur. And some like--
Laura: Keeps it under her arm the whole time.
Liam: There are more worlds than these.
Laura: It's got a happy kitten on it that says "hang in there."
Liam: It says life-- (laughter)
Laura: Life needs things to live?
Taliesin: I don't know what's so funny about that either. I don't remember any of that.
Liam: It grows on you so quickly, though.
Laura: Grog.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Show him the paper, Vex.
Laura: Oh, here. It's right here. Right here. That's your handwriting, don't you see it?
Marisha: We were committing.
Taliesin: It's fine. I'm happy to commit to this. Why? What hap--? What?
Laura: Oh god.
Marisha: We were in Syngorn.
Sam: Wait, I think I can help. I'm going to cast Modify Memory on Percy.
Laura: And Grog's just content sitting over here completely blank.
Liam: Eating chicken that he found on the road.
Taliesin: This is so exciting.
Marisha: Little gamey?
Taliesin: I've never seen him laugh like that before.
Matt: This is-- this is a way to do it. All right. All right.
Sam: I can help you remember, Percy. Just look into my eyes.
Taliesin: I don't want to.
Sam: Look into my eyes. (laughter)
Taliesin: Well, that's getting giffed. Okay, yeah.
Laura: But wait, are you just going to make up what he remembers? No!
Matt: Percy, I need you to make a wisdom saving throw.
Taliesin: Oh, and I'm out of Resolve.
Matt: What is your spell DC? Is this with the cone? Scanlan, is this with the cone?
Sam: With the cone. I want this to work.
Marisha: You're going to pull-- screaming in his face.
Taliesin: Wow, eight.
Marisha: What the fuck?
Matt: Scanlan, how do you modify his memory? Because at this level you can alter the memories of an event that took up to seven days ago.
Travis: What level are you doing?
Sam: Level seven.
Matt: But you can only modify ten minutes of it.
Liam: Speaking as Liam, remember that this is a man who gave an evil sword-- he gave crystal meth to Grog.
Taliesin: The best crystal meth! The finest crystal meth in Christendom.
Sam: I can change any memory. Ah, what was it called?
Taliesin: Ten minutes.
Sam: What was your title called? There's nothing on this piece of paper! (laughter)
Travis: Inception.
Laura: Lady Vex'ahlia. Baroness of the Third House of Whitestone and the Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt.
Sam: Jesus Christ. Baroness of what?
Laura: Of the Third House of Whitestone.
Taliesin: And Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt.
Liam: I have no patience for any of this shit.
Sam: Whitestone and Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt.
Laura: Of all the ten minutes to have him remember, maybe that's not the one to focus on.
Taliesin: It's not remembering. He's going to be making it up. I'm not actually going to remember it, he's going to lie.
Laura: Make up something wonderful for him. He's wanted to go there his entire life. Make something magical.
Taliesin: You don't have time to have this conversation. This is happening right now.
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Taliesin: This isn't happening. Fuck with me. I'm so excited.
Matt: Scanlan.
Sam: Oh my god. When did we leave? How many days has it been?
Matt: It's been close to a week in the Feywild total, all the nights you've rested.
Sam: I can only modify ten minutes of time.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: So I can't build the whole story up.
Matt: No, he'll remember ten minutes that you plug in right now.
Taliesin: And by remember meaning whatever you explain.
Sam: All right.
Matt: And remember, as truth, whatever ten minutes he hands out. This spell is one of my favorite spells in the game.
Travis: This is amazing.
Sam: All right, I don't know. I'm going to make him remember that we landed in the Feywild together as a group. It was a beautiful field filled with naked nymphs and fey creatures that all came to him and gave him a wonderful full-body massage.
Taliesin: Very uncomfortable, all right. But no, that was tension. Okay, yes.
Sam: Vex saw him and he did not want anyone to know about this moment that he had. So in a fit of panic, he gave her something, anything, a title. A title to make her keep her confidence. The title was Lady Vex'ahlia, the Baroness of the Third House of Whitestone and Grand Mistress of the Gray Hut. (laughter)
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: She agreed to keep his secret and he had a wonderful time before his memory fades.
Taliesin: Oh my. Wait, that was-- we were-- but there was-- you shouldn't, no! Yes! I did do this. Yes.
Laura: You remember?
Taliesin: I do, and we will never discuss why again, but yes, I did do this, and I'm so glad I wrote it down correctly because that was very embarrassing. I'll have this approved.
Laura: Approved?
Taliesin: Yes, well, I'm going to make sure I have to-- of course inform-- Yes.
Travis: Who's yes?
Matt: It seems the awkward curse of the Feywild has set into a couple of your allies.
Taliesin: I, apparently, am missing an awful lot of time. But this did happen. Yes, okay.
Liam: Well, Percival, look at this. Show him the bow.
Taliesin: Oh, that kind of bow.
Travis: Whoa!
Laura: Oh, Grog, it's really badass. You killed the guy that was holding it. You.
Travis: Me? So it's mine?
Marisha: I pull out the piece of the petrified crocodile. We killed this, too. This is all that's left of him.
Travis: What? Those are like amazing things.
Laura: Wait, is this normal? Would we have known that this is normal for people to lose their memory when they come out of the fucking Feywild?
Matt: No, you would have no idea.
Laura: We wouldn't have learned any of that in our studies. No?
Matt: Your studies aren't extensive on the Feywild, and the people that may know, partially, are suffering from the circumstance.
Travis: There's a petrified crocodile. What else did you see while we were in this magical place?
Sam: To be honest, my memory is foggy as well.
Matt: No, a little bit. But you guys weren't heavy studiers. You weren't the most studious children.
Laura: (whispers) I was a studious child.
Matt: For certain things.
Laura: I was a very studious child. He cheated off my tests all the time. I was incredibly studious.
Marisha: Percy, I am so sorry. I know how badly you wanted to go there. But here's the good news. Now that I've been there, we can go back at any time.
Taliesin: Really? You promise?
Laura: Grog, did this happen last time you went to the Feywild?
Travis: What?
Laura: When you-- do you remember-- okay.
Liam: I really don't think we need to worry about Grog so much. I think he's fine.
Travis: Thank you.
Laura: You killed so many things, Grog. You fought so many people.
Taliesin: Oh god! Did we get alcohol? Did someone give us alcohol?
Laura: No.
Taliesin: Damn.
Liam: But that can happen today.
Taliesin: Yeah, but it won't be fairy alcohol, but I know.
Marisha: Yeah, we've been, naturally, without alcohol.
Laura: We need to find Pike. Pike came to help us.
Taliesin: How long have we been gone for?
Sam: Pike was there.
Laura: Five days?
Sam: I don't know, it's a bit foggy, but a few days.
Liam: Guys, let's just go find a wizard and some alcohol, in whichever order.
Taliesin: I'm going to go file this and I'll meet you in a moment.
Laura: There's Gilmore, we could talk to him. Allura? Maybe she can help.
Taliesin: Here. I'm going to make sure that that's finalized with the correct spelling.
Liam: Jabba the Hutt. Not that grand to me. I start walking off towards the castle.
Sam: We're in Whitestone?
Matt: You're in Whitestone, currently, yes.
Liam: Come on!
Sam: All right, let's go.
Travis: We just left there.
Liam: Just eat your pigeon and come along, Grog.
Taliesin: Strange. Suddenly, I am hungry. Are you suddenly hungry?
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: We should eat something.
Laura: I make sure Trinket's out of the necklace.
Marisha: Yes, I could use a glass of wine.
Taliesin: I could use a carafe of wine.
Matt: Trinket licks the side of your face. Nuzzles you as you walk towards the castle.
Travis: Wait, if you got a bow, and there were pixies, and you gave her something, did I get anything? Did I pick up any diseases?
Laura: Lots of diseases.
Sam: You fought bravely. And often. You wielded your weapon strongly and proudly, and had many definite physical encounters, and were never frozen. And showed your power and defended us to the best of your ability.
Liam: You waded through blood, Grog.
Travis: Can I insight check Scanlan?
Matt: (laughs) You can. Scanlan, make a deception check.
Travis: Six!
Sam: Okay, good. 17. (laughter)
Taliesin: Holy Jesus.
Matt: Seems legit, and a part of you is disappointed that you can't recall this memory. But even just them speaking of it is almost half of the fun, so.
Travis: That's pretty great. I like all those things you said.
Sam: You were great.
Travis: Did I get any new weapons? I won't be able to pull it out of the bag of holding unless I know what's in there.
Sam: That's true.
Taliesin: I'm going to check my pockets for anything interesting.
Travis: I don't have pockets.
Laura: Percy, your sketchbook.
Taliesin: My sketchbook, yes, what about it?
Laura: You made sketches the entire time.
Taliesin: Oh my god! I did!
Matt: And you look through the pages and there are sketches you don't remember drawing.
Travis: Oh fuck! I mean, oh fuck!
Taliesin: This is so weird.
Marisha: You had a lovely time.
Taliesin: This'll do.
Marisha: We can go back. We'll take a lovely vacation.
Taliesin: No, no, this and liquor will do.
Laura: You used your lightning javelin. You--
Matt: As you guys approach--
Laura: Yes! You have a little statue. You have a little statue, Grog.
Sam: Oh, that's right. A little statue of a dog that might be magical.
Travis: A little statue of a dog.
Sam: An onyx statue of a dog.
Travis: Can I reach into the bag of holding for an onyx statue of a dog?
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Sam: I've seen it, I can reach in there.
Matt: One of you guys can reach in there and get it if you want to. I just want to see if he can.
Travis: 11.
Matt: Unfortunately, your lack of imagination is finding it difficult based on the words you were given to formulate enough of a solid creative thought.
Laura: It's black. Onyx means black.
Taliesin: Honest statue of a hog. It's an honest statue of a hog.
Sam: Doesn't know what onyx is. He's picturing--
Matt: He barely knows what a dog is at this point.
Travis: If you want to reach in here and reach in my bag. Oh.
Liam: Sam, you can do this to me too.
Matt: And there you have it. The onyx mastiff is there before you.
Laura: It's an onyx mastiff. It's an onyx statuette of mastiff. If you use an action to speak the command word--
Liam: Which we don't know--
Laura: I know. And throw the figurine to a point on the ground within 60 feet of you it becomes a living mastiff for up to six hours.
Liam: I thought the guy told us we'd have to figure it out. Did he whisper anything to you?
Laura: It was etched on the bottom and I totally understand it.
Liam: Oh, you read Elvish?
Laura: I do.
Liam: You're partially elvish.
Laura: It's right there.
Sam: So wait, it's insta-dog?
Laura: It's insta-dog.
Sam: And then what does it do? Can it fight?
Laura: It fights. It has sight and hearing checks. It bites and it claws just like-- oh, no. It just bites.
Sam: And what happens if it gets killed?
Laura: I'm looking, I'm looking.
Travis: It has an intelligence of eight.
Sam: What's your intelligence?
Travis: Six.
Sam: Oh my goodness.
Laura: The creature reverts to its figurine form. It reverts to a figurine early if it drops to zero hit points or if you use an action to speak the command word again while touching it. When the creature becomes a figurine again, its property can't be used again for, ugh, seven days.
Travis: Get to the bottom part, come on.
Laura: Mastiff has an intelligence of eight (laughs) and can speak Common. It's smarter than you.
Sam: Oh, it's a talking dog?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: I wonder if it has a name.
Matt: It can also see invisibility.
Sam: It can see invisibility?
Matt: That's why it's a good guard dog if you--
Laura: And objects within that range.
Sam: I like this dog.
Liam: The only important thing on that paper.
Marisha: And how long does he last? He just lives until he's done?
Taliesin: Six hours.
Laura: Sorry, I didn't mean to read all that and make it not interesting.
Travis: If you set camp though, good sentry.
Sam: But we need to know the magic word.
Laura: We know it. It's good doggie.
Sam: Oh, we know the word already?
Matt: It's part of the enchantment, yeah.
Marisha: Good doggie.
Sam: Can you teach us how to say that in Elvish?
Taliesin: Don't teach him how to say it in Elvish.
Laura: You can say it in Common. He understands Common.
Taliesin: He understands Common, that's fair.
Liam: Vel'ena. Vo'el'ena.
Sam: Vo'el'el'ena?
Laura: Yeah, that's it.
Sam: Vo'el'la'la'la.
Travis: All right, we start walking back to Whitestone.
Laura: Grog, I'm sorry.
Sam: Let's get the dog out here.
Taliesin: Let's hold off on the dog.
Matt: As you guys make your way towards the castle, there's a small group of figures. You see three armored Whitestone soldiers with one figure following them. Different outfit, looks to be simple dark blues and grays. Dark skin, short dark hair, carrying his crossbow at his side. As you make eyes, you immediately recognize this as Jarett.
Marisha: Jarett!
Matt: Jarett is coming down and he sees. "Aye, friends, it has been a while. I'm so happy to see that you survived. It's been a while. Is everyone okay?"
Liam: How long?
Matt: "Aye, most better part of a week."
Marisha: So it is like Saturday here, right? Time runs the same?
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: So it wasn't yesterday?
Sam: Why did you taste the wind?
Matt: "I don't know why. It's a strange question." (laughter)
Taliesin: It tastes like Saturday, certainly.
Matt: "More confused by the question, but it's fine. All right."
Laura: How are things here?
Matt: "Well, (sighs) let's just say better for the time being." And as you look up, what you didn't notice before when you saw the clouds is there's this slight light blue hue to the entire sky.
Taliesin: Excellent.
Matt: There's this very faint shimmer to it. And he goes, "Ah, the barrier is now up, which is good. As soon as they finished that, Allura, Drake and Kima all left to find information on the green dragon."
Liam: Where?
Matt: "I did not inquire as to the location, but they said they should be back in the next few days."
Laura: Cassandra might know.
Taliesin: She will.
Marisha: When did they leave?
Matt: "It's three days ago? They were hoping to get insight on Thordak's current situation while we amass as many armored folks here as possible and continue to reach out for allies. I think that is the main goal right now, is to find as many allies as we can. It was interesting to put a stake into this fight."
Laura: So you're leading an army?
Matt: "Well, we're building whoever we can in this vicinity. There's not many. At the very least, defend, in case this ends up falling."
Laura: And what's your role in it?
Matt: Welcome back. Slight little technical issue there. We're going to roll back in. Little bit of information, step into the moment. As Jarett has walked down the steps of Whitestone and began a conversation with Vox Machina about the current situation here, he says how, "Currently, Allura, Kima, and Drake are off trying to find information on the green dragon, Raishan, and trying to discover what best can be done regarding the attack on Thordak in Emon. Here, I am doing the best I can to build what armed forces we have at our disposal, and we're trying to reach out to bring whatever allies are willing to put their stakes into this battle. But yes, this is a monumental task based on my own experience, and I'm doing the best I can. But bear with me, it's--"
Laura: We have faith in you, Jarett.
Matt: "Thank you, I'm glad somebody does. Asum actually just arrived here. About two or three hours ago."
Laura: Yes. We were wondering what happened to him.
Marisha: Haven't seen him in a while.
Matt: "As were we. Last we heard from Gilmore that he disappeared with Tofor within Emon after the attack."
Liam: Shaun's still in the city?
Matt: "Shaun is still in the city. I believe he's actually up meeting with Asum and Cassandra right now in the castle."
Taliesin: Let's clean up and head in that direction, I'd imagine.
Matt: "Certainly. Well, if you need me, I'll be around. Just--"
Marisha: Jarett?
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: Has there been any eyes on the green dragon here recently?
Matt: "None of us have seen the dragon. None of us know its whereabouts, and attempts to scry have been balked. I do not know."
Marisha: Okay, thank you.
Matt: "It's all right. I believe there is information on the whereabouts of the white."
Marisha: Do we know where?
Matt: "I do not know. That is more for what they hold at the castle."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "Yell loudly if you need me."
Marisha: Thank you.
Matt: "It warms my heart to see you all safe."
Marisha: Same.
Matt: He gives a little salute and a smile, and continues with the other guards back towards the center of the city. As you guys ascend the steps to Castle Whitestone, you enter the large gates that slowly creak open as you come to the familiar interior. You can hear the voices echoing in the distance from the nearby-- what was once the guest dining area of the castle has now been converted into a war room. As you approach the outside of the doors, they're partially ajar; on the inside you can see your sister, Cassandra, sitting at a table. Gilmore is leaned back, arms crossed, tugging on the end of his chin goatee, and you see Seeker Asum currently facing towards Cassandra. They're in mid-conversation right now. As soon as you enter the room: "It is good to know that you all survive, as they've told me."
Marisha: Same to you, Asum.
Matt: As he turns and looks towards you, you can see the side of his face that has all the heavy tattoos now bears heavy acid scars that have blended the tattoos into the scarring. It's not a very pretty sight, but he seems to at least be in one piece right now. He still has his thick, hooded cloak around his shoulders, and where normally he has a shaved head, some of the hair is growing in in areas that can grow hair based on the damage to this side of his face.
Sam: What happened to you?
Matt: "What happened to me is I made out a lot better than many of the people there that day. This-- I'll take this."
Marisha: I'm so sorry.
Matt: "It's fine. I've had worse. Trust me. Come, sit." Cassandra sits up. "My brother." She comes up and gives you a big hug and holds you for a second.
Laura: Pardon our appearance. And stench.
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: Do we smell?
Laura: We're covered in that black messiness, I assume.
Taliesin: I hadn't even noticed, actually.
Matt: You do. And it is. Its scent has faded a bit, but you all still are not in the most presentable means. However, the conversation's dire tone seems to be enough where no one pays much mind to it.
Taliesin: We were successful. I will let the others fill you in with some details, although I do-- and I'm going to double check, and I'm going to find the brief letter explaining what I've set up with Vex, although it will not have any of the reason why, but it will have at least the nature of what's been done. And we have acquired, well, Vex. Vex'ahlia, if you would.
Laura: Another Vestige.
Matt: As you pull it out, they all step back. Gilmore leans forward. "Very good."
Laura: I would love for you to take a look at it, Shaun.
Matt: "I would love to have a look at it." He takes it. As you hand it to him, it actually curls around the back of his hands and whips back into a strong, tensile stance, and he-- "That's weird." He takes it and starts looking over it as Cassandra looks back. "I'm glad you're all safe, and apparently named. Welcome to Whitestone, Lady Vex'ahlia."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: She takes it, folds it. "I'll have this put in the books immediately."
Taliesin: I appreciate your kind generosity.
Matt: "I will request more information soon."
Taliesin: We'll see, yes. That might be complicated, but yes.
Matt: "Anyway, have a seat. Asum, please, inform them of what you've been telling us." As you all find a seat, he sits there quietly, his eyes darting around in his head, ruminating over the thoughts and trying to formulate his presentation. He crosses his fingers in front of his face. "Things are a bit of a mess within the city. None are allowed to leave. Living under the watch of the wyvern guard, hundreds of lizardmen worshipers of Thordak have been watching the city from above. Some have tried to flee beyond the walls, but ultimately end up being returned at the end of a set of talons and not seen again. Thordak calls a gathering every dusk of the surviving populace. Tens of thousands forced to come and gather at the center of the remnants of the Cloudtop District. He gloats, instills fear in all that behold this, and offers forgiveness to those who offer fealty to him. All are to cheer his name, applaud his statements, and thank him for his mercy. Those that fail to do so are pulled from the crowd by his lizardmen and devoured by the beast himself, lined up to the slaughter as a show. And there is laughter from the beast that pushed them into his maw. Most of the wealth of the city is now amassed in the ashes of the district, forming a massive wall of shiny chunk and coin, like a nest around the fucking beast. He's enslaved a number of the greatest sculptors of the city to begin making his likeness in the surrounding stone. They chisel away at the tall, proud walls of the interior, showing his terrible face where it does not belong. A vain fucker. He's crazy, that one. What's more dangerous than an intelligent dragon than one who's crazy? I've been keeping an eye as best as I can. Thordak gives direct orders to his wyvern guard often, some off to communicate, I presume, with the other members of the Conclave; I know not. I've been stuck within the city. Most survivors stay indoors. I've been working with the Clasp, believe it or not, to shepherd over a thousand people below the city streets for protection. The lesser of two evils, to be sure, but at the very least, at the moment they have nothing to gain by working against us at this juncture. Naught but six hours ago, the Cinder King was roaring in anger, his cries echoing through the streets. The people fell to their knees, thinking this was the end. Stepped up from his volcanic throne, and sent the majority of his army eastward. I used this distraction to slip into the now-unguarded Lyceum, find a port scroll and a sigil for Whitestone before they returned. Came here to see all of you alive, so that's the best news I've had in weeks. That's the best I have to bring you about the current state of the city."
Marisha: That's our home.
Matt: "That's our home."
Taliesin: What is eastward?
Matt: "Kymal. Westruun. Technically, here."
Laura: Did you bring any other survivors with you?
Matt: "I was the only one who could make it into the Lyceum unseen. Tofor is still back there, fighting the good fight. She's working with Shenn. They're trying to get as many below ground as possible, and out of harm's way."
Liam: And Greyskull Keep?
Matt: "I haven't seen it. I've been within the city walls."
Laura: Did you say Thordak's wife? Did I mishear you?
Sam: Wyvern guard.
Marisha: Wyvern. I heard wife.
Laura: Wife and guards is what I heard, and I was so fucking confused.
Matt: Sorry.
Marisha: Wait, his wyvern guard is often...?
Matt: He sent a majority.
Marisha: Oh, that's still me manufacturing shit. Okay.
Taliesin: We don't know where they've been sent. We don't know why.
Sam: Eastward.
Matt: "That's all I've seen."
Taliesin: We need to find out where they're going.
Matt: "I had to use that time to get to the Lyceum. Usually it's too heavily guarded."
Taliesin: No, of course. Just making a list.
Laura: You've done so much.
Matt: "I've done so little. There's more to be done. But the more time that passes, whatever it is they're planning, I'm sure is getting closer to fruition."
Marisha: Do we have any known whereabouts on the white or the green dragon?
Matt: He looks over and Gilmore steps forward, sets the bow down, and says, "First and foremost, this is a glorious piece. I could only hope to eventually create something of its majesty." He hands it over. "A bit creepy in ways, but I think you'll make good use of it. Once we complete the barrier and put quite a bit of concentration each day into maintaining it, of which Pike has been of great aid to me, between the arcane and divine magics, I think we found a fine balance. Hopefully. But anyway, I've been putting the rest of my energies towards trying to procure this information. The green, Raishan, as I believe you've told me, eludes my watch, my gaze. There is a lot of protection around that one. I get the sense that of those in the Conclave, she is probably the most trained in my arts."
Laura: She's the one that released Thordak, so that wouldn't surprise me.
Marisha: She's on my shit list.
Matt: "I think she's on a lot of people's shit lists. Mine as well. The white, however. I know not its name, but I was able to look towards it. I was able to find it sitting amongst a large pile of rock and rubble. Looks like a fallen city, crumbled and destroyed. From what I saw, there were smoldering ruins, toppled landscapes of buildings and temples, arcane crystals crashed and cracked, deep inside a ravine. There, the white dragon perched, setting up this slow-rolling winter amongst a shivering horde of dragonborn."
Travis: Oh, shit.
Marisha: What did he just say? What?
Liam: Shivering horde of dragonborn.
Travis: Amongst a horde of dragonborn.
Laura: Draconia?
Matt: "What remains of it."
Liam: Fuck.
Matt: "That was days ago."
Taliesin: That's a card we no longer have.
Matt: "I need to be careful when doing this."
Liam: The city was razed?
Matt: "From what I could see, yes."
Travis: Did you see any motion? Any slaves?
Matt: "Oh, yes. There were many survivors, but they were not in the best of states."
Travis: This white dragon, does he bring weather, or any sort of change? It's all ice and snow, yeah?
Matt: "The very essence of each ancient wyrm, if you will, carries with it its own element. It slowly transforms the landscape around where it takes up its new den. If it seems to sit atop the remains of the once-proud Draconia, then it now falls under the icy grasp of the beast."
Liam: And the will of the people there?
Matt: "I could not look that deep. My apologies."
Marisha: Is this just with a simple Scrying spell? Okay.
Taliesin: We must be careful. We cannot let Whitestone be discovered.
Marisha: Yes, and as we've learned before, Scrying can alert your position.
Matt: At this point in time, you guys hear heavy footsteps heading up from the lower floor of the castle. You hear two voices shout out, "Lady Cassandra! Lady Cassandra!" They enter the room real fast. You see one man, probably in his mid-20s or so, sweat pouring down his face, his eyes wide. "My lady." At that point you hear, echoing outside of the castle, this loud, piercing, shrieking roar.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Matt: (roar)
Laura: Shit balls motherfucker.
Matt: It's distant, but even at that distance, it is loud.
Laura: Gilmore, does the screen keep us hidden?
Matt: You look back, and even in his most damaged state, Gilmore had an essence of confidence, and this is a moment where you've never really seen him so pale. "We're about to find out, aren't we?"
Travis: I'm going outside.
Laura: I'm going outside, too.
Liam: I walk up to Shaun and slap my hand on his forearm and say, what about the bow? Is there anything you can tell us about the bow?
Matt: "In due time. Keep it at the ready."
Marisha: I turn to Cassandra. We need to get all of the citizens underground, immediately.
Taliesin: We can't fit everybody.
Matt: "We can certainly try." She turns to the guard. "Gather everyone we can. Gather--" And there's another roar from outside, this time louder still. "Go! Now!" Everyone starts rushing down the stairs to the outside of Whitestone Castle.
Marisha: I go out and I do a Skywrite in the sky again.
Laura: Wait! Skywrite?
Marisha: They already know we're here!
Laura: No, they don't! They don't necessarily.
Marisha: Making pictures in the clouds right above the city. It's fine.
Sam: Maybe not.
Laura: I wouldn't Skywrite anything right now, Keyleth. That screen could keep us hidden. He could be searching for us right now.
Marisha: And what about the citizens?
Sam: We'll find another way to alert them. Send out the dog. I don't know.
Matt: Are you guys exiting the castle now?
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: Do it by hand? We might not have that much time.
Matt: As you step out into the front open patio area, just outside of the castle's main gates, you look up and that faint blue shimmer that encases-- and you can now see it as a dome, and it comes down around, just directly around the city, closing at the very outskirts of the castle. You look in the distance as you see a few dark shapes growing larger and larger.
Marisha: They're coming this way!
Taliesin: Hold.
Matt: I need you to make a perception check, all of you.
Marisha: Fuck!
Travis: 17.
Sam: Nine.
Marisha: 26.
Taliesin: 23.
Liam: 26.
Laura: 16.
Matt: All right. Vax, Keyleth, and Percy. You guys glance off and you can see there are a number of shapes. It looks to be probably two, three dozen large winged entities flapping. You can't make out too much of the detail of their form, but you can definitely see some sort of aerial transport with large wings. At the forefront of them, you see one far larger than the rest. While you can't make out the details at this distance, the one thing you do catch is the bits of sunlight that peek through the clouds, hitting the side of its hide. A bright, piercing white color.
Travis: Fucking fucked.
Matt: You see it coasting at an angle around the outside of the city, making its way very quickly towards the outskirts of the town.
Marisha: It's Thordak's army. Asum said himself we're eastward. We're directly in its path.
Taliesin: Hold.
Marisha: Dragons have truesight. They already know we're here.
Sam: Maybe they can't get through this.
Marisha: Any second we wait longer, more people could die!
Laura: Send out the guards.
Matt: The guards are already running down, by the way, based on Cassandra's orders, and are making their way towards the city. You can already see people coming out of the streets and looking up, covering their ears. Some people are falling to their knees and crying.
Marisha: Percy.
Taliesin: Pick them up. Keep running until the moment they can't.
Liam: They know we're here. This is not a coincidence. They're not flying by. They know we're here. They know.
Matt: (whoosh) You now see the dragon and the flying horde have just come within a mile of the southern portion of the city.
Marisha: Percy!
Taliesin: Wait!
Liam: Do it.
Laura: No. Don't do it!
Liam: They're coming for us!
Taliesin: This is my home. Wait.
Travis: This is his home.
Marisha: Percy.
Taliesin: Keep moving.
Marisha: You have five seconds to come up with a better fucking plan, or I am doing it.
Taliesin: Spread out. Keep moving. Find a position.
Matt: Okay. What order are you guys rushing down in?
Liam: What are we looking at from our vantage point?
Matt: You guys are looking down at the wide, 60-foot earth path that leads down from the base of Castle Whitestone into the city itself.
Taliesin: If I'm towards the front, I'm moving everyone towards the house where we made the tunnel that goes underneath the Sun Tree.
Matt: All right, so we have Percy at the front.
Travis: I'll be right behind him.
Matt: Okay, Grog's right behind Percy.
Laura: I'll follow behind Grog.
Liam: We're up above, though? Or are we on ground level at this point?
Matt: You guys are now on ground level. You're above on the grade that leads down into the city itself.
Laura: I pull out the broom and I get on the broom.
Matt: Okay, so you're on the broom.
Marisha: It's clear they're not deviating the path.
Laura: It's not clear. We could just be in their way.
Travis: He said they're curving.
Matt: They're now curving around the outside of the western side of the valley.
Taliesin: What are you going to write? What are you going to write?
Marisha: I would throw up the De Rolo crest, just like before. It's a good alert sign.
Laura: People would just come out screaming. They won't know where to go.
Marisha: Then come up with a better damn plan.
Matt: (roar) Echoing through the valley. You watch as the entire crowd of these entities flies around the west side of the city, curves past. The shadow of the light of the sky, you can see the dark, heavy shadow of the dragon and the wyverns pass over the western side of the city. You can hear distant screams as people begin to freak out at this. It passes over the western side of the city, flying right towards the castle.
Marisha: Percy.
Matt: Arcs past the castle, over the forest, and the entire cluster slowly flaps down and lands at the southernmost beginning peak of the Alabaster Sierras, just north of the city. The dragon (crash noise) lands.
Taliesin: Alert everyone you see.
Marisha: They're scouting us.
Taliesin: Tell them to get underground. Tell them to be silent.
Laura: They don't see us, but they know we're nearby.
Travis: What direction are they looking?
Matt: Right now, they're looking in all directions, actually.
Laura: We need to get everybody underground while we can.
Liam: We have time. We have time.
Taliesin: Thank you. Find everyone. Tell them, silence. We still have the cavern we built underground. Start making it larger.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Shall we scatter? Spread the word?
Laura: Spread the word. Tell everyone to get underground.
Taliesin: Under the tree.
Marisha: I go to the cavern under the Sun Tree and I start casting Move Earth and I start clearing it as fast as I can.
Matt: Okay. It's going to take you a while, but you begin building this cavern.
Marisha: As fast as I can.
Taliesin: More people.
Sam: Where are we telling people to go?
Travis: We're scattering.
Taliesin: There's the inn that was broken. It's got an entrance. They either go there or they go underneath the castle.
Sam: That can hold 30, 40 people?
Taliesin: She's making it bigger.
Laura: Can we send people under the castle as well?
Sam: Okay, under the castle, yeah.
Matt: You guys all begin scattering, grabbing everyone you can. The guards are starting to gather people, and as you get the word out, people begin to quiet, holding their mouths. The guards are holding people silently. People begin ushering en masse up towards this giant exodus from the city, pouring like a funnel up this walkway to the base of Castle Whitestone. Keyleth, as you're down there, you're pressing. The dirt itself is slowly molding its way into this large cavern, pressing downward further and further and opening, further down and opening.
Marisha: Fallout cavern style. Big, lower, bigger, lower.
Matt: You get about three platforms down before the earth stops responding.
Marisha: What do you mean?
Travis: Fucking ziggurat!
Marisha: The fucking ziggurat!
Taliesin: Other way, other way!
Marisha: I go the other way!
Laura: Don't empty out the earth too much, or it won't support the city.
Marisha: Fallout style. Little pods.
Matt: All right. You start creating all these various things, and people start ushering in. It's getting to the point now where there's so many people. You hear crying children, families pressed in, you're feeling claustrophobic and the room's getting hotter and hotter the more bodies that are in there. You keep concentrating and pushing the earth out. You can feel the sweat beads pouring down your face, concentrating, concentrating. You hear the crying and sobbing, and people trying to comfort those that are freaking out. Every now and then you hear a distant echoing cry, a scream of a dragon in the distance, and everyone in the room tenses, and the sobbing gets even louder, then hushed again with whispering silence. You keep pushing and keep pushing, opening. You guys all begin to gather the rest as you watch, with that final cry, the dragon and the wyverns pick up (whoosh) and swoop towards the center of the valley, arcing to the west, and do a wide sweep of the mountain range. (flapping wings)
Laura: Where's Gilmore?
Matt: Gilmore has been bringing people en masse down to the castle. You haven't seen him for a number of-- probably 15, 20 minutes or so. The dragons coast around, and begin to disappear in the southeastern distance where they came from. You do, at this point, catch Gilmore, who has moved to the top of the castle and is currently, arms out, concentrating, pouring all the energy he can into that barrier.
Travis: Looks like the spell worked.
Liam: Good work. Good work.
Laura: Gilmore. Good job.
Matt: He eventually comes down from the top of the castle. He is-- eye sockets are sunken. You can see he's pouring with sweat. "I'm going to need a spa day. Because I'm done."
Laura: Where's Pike?
Matt: You guys find Pike. She, during this whole period, was over by the temple of Pelor that she was helping right and construct. Going over and finding out where she's been placed, you guys see that she's shepherded in a good 200 people into that temple, and has been keeping them divinely protected the whole time. As soon as you approach the outside, the people begin to slowly disperse back into the city. Pike walks out, looking out to the sky and locks eyes with you. "You're back!" Runs up and gives you a big hug. Jumps into your arms at this point. You catch her, and realize how heavy she is with the armor on, put her back down.
Laura: I drop her, because I'm fucking weak.
Matt: "Guys! Hi!"
Laura: You did an amazing job with that.
Matt: "That was mostly him. I've never done something like that before. That was-- everything okay in the Feywild? I'm sorry, I lost my connection. We had to finish this ritual."
Laura: No, it was fine.
Marisha: Hi, Pike. Sorry.
Matt: "Don't be. I'm glad you're all okay."
Sam: Do you remember the Feywild?
Matt: "Yeah. We were--"
Sam: Okay. Just making sure.
Laura: He doesn't remember, Pike.
Matt: "You don't remember?"
Travis: Yeah. Apparently, we went to the Feywild, and everybody remembers it but me and Percy.
Matt: "Why is that?"
Laura: I don't know.
Taliesin: It's funnier that way.
Marisha: Maybe you can look at his head later.
Laura: Maybe there's a way to cure it.
Travis: I'm just too smart.
Matt: She walks up and takes a look at you, walks up to Grog. Has a good look at the side of your head, knocks you in the temple a few times.
Travis: What do you see?
Matt: "There's nothing... physical. I'll try a restoration." She would have, let's see here.
Sam: Pike stats!
Taliesin: I was about to say, you have an Ashley app. That's so adorable.
Travis: Don't make me any dumber.
Laura: Grog, that's not possible.
Matt: Yeah, she's going to try Greater Restoration. Let me check something here real fast.
Sam: That was not fun.
Laura: No.
Marisha: Percy, are you sure it's okay for me to let these people out?
Taliesin: Of course it's not, but yes, definitely let them out. We'll have to make it more secure and safer.
Laura: I think it's gotten quite a bit away from us.
Matt: So Pike reaches up. The gauntlets begin to glow, and as she touches each side of your temples, your eyes close. As some of you watch this, Grog's eyes flash open, and where his pupils and the whites of his eyes were, you now see a flash of divine golden orange light. As it fades, you are slammed with a series of memories that were previously taken from you, and you recall every moment in the Feywild.
Travis: (surprised noises)
Sam: I'm sorry! I'm sorry, you didn't get to kill anything. I'm sorry.
Laura: No, he did! He still killed the big bad guy!
Sam: Oh, you did! You did, you killed the one thing. Okay, good.
Travis: I got petrified!
Laura: Yeah, well, stoned.
Travis: I tried diplomacy! Never again.
Sam: Lesson learned.
Travis: Holy shit.
Laura: Can you only do that one time a day?
Matt: "No, I can do it once more."
Sam: Maybe... well...
Travis: No, it's okay, yeah! Percy will remember the nude massage.
Matt: She walks up to Percy.
Liam: Think of what he's losing, though.
Taliesin: I'm not losing it.
Laura: Potentially.
Taliesin: No, because it doesn't matter. It's there anyway.
Sam: Actually, I don't know. I don't know.
Matt: Yeah, you have overlapping memories. So she reaches up and you bend down. She takes your glasses off. Hands them to Vex. Reaches up and touches the sides of your temple. "Now, concentrate." Close your eyes, and there's a burst of warmth towards the front of your lobe, almost like someone's dipping your head into hot water. And with that, there's a smattering of memories that are rushing into your mind. It takes you a moment. Your head swims, and you have to almost sit down. You almost stumble off your back foot as your brain now has to reorganize those lost moments. Seven days now immediately restored.
Taliesin: Seven days, ten minutes.
Sam: Greater Restoration kills Modify Memory.
Taliesin: Oh! But do I remember having the fake memory? Or do I not remember having a fake memory?
Matt: You would remember the spell being cast. You remember the fake memory, but you're aware that it's fake.
Sam: And that I did it?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Oh yeah.
Sam: Fuck.
Liam: Just say thank you, Percival.
Matt: "Did it work?"
Taliesin: I give her a big hug. I'm so tired. I'm sorry. I'm going to sit down.
Laura: What?
Matt: "Glasses?"
Laura: Oh, but they're so fun to look through! All right.
Taliesin: They'll give you a headache.
Matt: She takes the glasses, and as you're resting, she takes your hand away from your head and puts them back on.
Marisha: I start slowly releasing people from the pods.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: People begin to emerge, and where once there was this air of tension, fear, and desolate acceptance of the end, there's laughter. There's smiles, and even more tears as people begin to realize they have another day to live.
Laura: Can we tell the people as they come out, I know you'll want to celebrate, but please keep it as quiet as possible tonight. We don't know when it could be back.
Matt: There's a stillness and a slow understanding and nodding. While everyone takes in the information, one young woman, smeared dirt on her chin, dried tears on her cheek, steps forward and goes, "Thank you. Thank you." And everyone else starts saying, "Thank you. Thank you. Thank you." This sea of thank-yous begins to spread through the crowd immediately in your vicinity.
Sam: Don't thank us. Thank Shaun Gilmore.
Laura: Gilmore and Pike. Allura.
Matt: They all quietly go back to their silence and begin to slowly disperse themselves throughout the city where they were before this incursion happened.
Marisha: I go up to Percy.
Travis: I forgot that Shaun was Gilmore's first name.
Laura: He was like, who's Shaun?
Sam: Intelligence of six.
Liam: So fucking method. Method, man.
Matt: Keyleth.
Marisha: I hope you know that I would never--
Taliesin: Shut up. Thank you.
Sam: I hope you know that I was only trying to improve your life with a wonderful happy memory, and it was mostly true.
Taliesin: I know where you sleep. People work for me.
Matt: Asum has caught up to you now as you guys are walking back to the city. You can see him. He's still, eyes to the sky, not truly trusting this quiet. He goes, "It seems we don't have any time to lose. What resources do you have to fight back? What have you learned? Please tell me you have better news than I have."
Travis: Well, we've got a few of these Vestiges, so we're a little powered up. But we're not quite sure what their full abilities are. It's significant, but we think they do more, we're just not sure how much.
Matt: "What more do you need?"
Laura: Can I fly up in the air while this conversation's going on?
Matt: Sure.
Sam: Don't go too high.
Laura: Not too high.
Sam: We don't know where the thing is.
Laura: No, I know, I want to go to the very top where I see the shimmer.
Matt: Yeah and it's a squat shimmer, not a full dome and it's like a very extended type dome.
Laura: Okay. But it's high enough, that I mean it's higher than the castle.
Matt: It's high enough where you can get about 80 feet up and you start to see enough detail in the shimmer where you're like, "Okay, I'm getting close."
Laura: Okay. The direction that the dragons went. Is this stupid? Can I shoot my Oracle Arrow in that direction?
Sam: No. Absolutely not.
Laura: Why?
Sam: (high-pitched) Why would you bring attention to us?!
Laura: It's an arrow!
Liam: They're long gone.
Matt: They are gone. The time has passed. They're miles and miles and miles and miles and miles at the speed they were travelling. You're a good shot, but I don't know if you could arc an arrow that far.
Laura: Oh well, I guess that's true. I thought it was a ten-minute, because it's Fenthras I thought it was a long-ass arrow.
Travis: Can't you tell what direction the dragons were heading?
Laura: Oh! Wait, okay, so the Oracle Arrow, is it like you fire it, and then it shoots somewhere and it sticks there and I can see through it for ten minutes?
Matt: Correct. Or see through it as it's fired, the minute it leaves the bow you can project your sight through the arrow for up to 10 minutes.
Sam: It can't fly for infinity?
Matt: No. It still arcs like a regular arrow.
Laura: That makes sense. I foresaw it just going, because I thought it was like a special kind of arrow.
Liam: It's really good for people without flying brooms.
Laura: Right. Cool. Then I'm not going to use it. Because now I understand how it works. I've learned something.
Taliesin: What direction were the wyverns travelling, were they travelling back? Or were they travelling along--
Matt: They were heading southeast.
Travis: So not back, they came from the west, right?
Matt: They swooped in from the west, from that side.
Taliesin: But they originated in the west, and they are currently travelling southeast?
Matt: Correct. However, it was Vorugal, it was the white dragon, which from what Gilmore is saying has been roosting over at the top of the ruins of Draconia.
Taliesin: Which is to the east.
Sam: So this was not the group that had set off from Emon.
Travis: To the west.
Taliesin: No it's-- Draconia is to the southeast. Why do I know that?
Sam: Here, here's the map. We're up here. This is the group that was coming from Emon. These guys came from somewhere over here? Where's Draconia?
Laura: Can I cast Primeval Awareness and see if it's within six miles of us right now, still? Or if it's farther away from that.
Marisha: I thought that Draconia's on a whole another continent.
Taliesin: Yeah, it is. It's over here.
Matt: It's over on Wildemount.
Laura: I want to see if they're just camping out around us or if they're going away.
Taliesin: Are they going back?
Matt: Using for dragons, I assume, right?
Laura: Yes. It's my favored enemy.
Matt: Yeah. I would say as part of your Primeval Awareness--
Sam: If this is the United States, we're in Maine. Emon is LA.
Matt: Yeah. Sensing at this point, with the day of travel and everything, you have no sense of dragons in that direction or anything.
Laura: Okay. They're further than six miles away.
Matt: Yeah, there are minor essences in the northern area, but nothing beyond what you've already sensed in the Alabaster Sierras. Nothing on the level of strength that the draw of an ancient dragon would bring on your radar.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: To answer your previous question, there are four Vestiges left.
Taliesin: That we know of.
Liam: There's a dagger, there's a cloak. Armor. There's a staff.
Sam: Wait, there's other objects that we haven't--
Matt: "All right."
Marisha: Four left. Because we have Whisper, right?
Laura: No, no, we don't have Whisper.
Marisha: So there's five.
Matt: "Do we have any other allies, friends, people who are sworn to aid us and--?"
Travis: Ooh! Yeah, yeah! Your parents.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: That's right.
Laura: Technically, the elves of Syngorn are building an army. However, who knows if they'll actually come through.
Taliesin: The werewolves could be called upon.
Matt: "I think they would understand it would do them well to help what is a threat to all of us."
Taliesin: You would think.
Sam: One werewolf has vowed allegiance to us.
Laura: In the Feywild.
Travis: In another plane of existence, which I don't know if that's a problem.
Matt: "Not going to count on that one."
Taliesin: It's not as ridiculous as you think.
Sam: Yes. Your former pals.
Taliesin: Whatever remnants of Draconia perhaps?
Matt: "Wait. So the last time we saw the main portion, the bulk of Emon's army from Fort Daxio was sent to Syngorn before this attack happened?"
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: "Do we have any knowledge on their whereabouts?"
Marisha: A lot are there.
Matt: "They're there?"
Marisha: A lot of-- at least all of our guards from Emon are in Syngorn, right?
Laura: No. Our guards aren't in Syngorn.
Marisha: Not our personal guards, but Emon's guards.
Laura: No.
Matt: You did see quite a few soldiers from Emon there.
Laura: Oh we did?
Sam: Yes.
Laura: I was distracted.
Matt: That's okay. You did have a lot to think about with your dad.
Taliesin: They would not answer our call but if someone has relations with the Clasp, they are always an option for manpower.
Matt: "Well, I have been dealing with them and definitely-- they're not much of an army, but they're definitely good at acquiring information and I currently have a few of them trying to find out as much as they can about Thordak."
Marisha: There's also the Ashari druids, who will definitely want to help our cause.
Taliesin: This is very true.
Matt: "That is good to know. Well, any more that come your way or any possibilities you have to bring more to our cause, please, do so."
Sam: There's a candle-maker who might help out. I would put him in the strong maybe category as well.
Taliesin: Don't mention that Vex flies.
Matt: "Good, well keep tabs on those you've found and any possibilities of others, especially those who have... I don't know, more of these Vestiges that you speak of, or armies at their disposal. Big weapons, anything. I'll take anything at this point really."
Taliesin: There are options but we need to discuss what happened today. This changes some things.
Travis: Yeah, we need more offence, less defense. I don't know if that will work a second time.
Taliesin: You're mad. We need defense. This is not a site of a victory, this is a site of our end. We need bunkers.
Laura: Yeah. We need to move everybody underground the same way we did in Emon.
Marisha: I can spend more time fleshing out and reinforcing the bunkers to make them--
Taliesin: I'll discuss a warning system to get people underground.
Sam: But when the dragon came here just now, they saw nothing, correct?
Taliesin: We hope.
Sam: Is there a way that we can spread false rumors that the city of Whitestone has been magically moved to another plane or something?
Laura: That's wonderful. That's smart.
Sam: Some way of getting that word to Draconia or I don't--
Taliesin: Putting the word out that we're other places than we are. Putting the sound--
Matt: Asum thinks to himself and goes--
Liam: Can't we drop it into the Clasp's pipeline?
Matt: "I can do that. Definitely. We can find a way to get that information. There are a number who have sworn allegiance to Thordak and, you know. Some folks who don't see honor but the necessity to stay alive override any sort of previous friendships."
Travis: Best not to mention our name. I don't think we're cool with the Clasp after our last meeting.
Laura: Yeah, they don't like us.
Matt: "Good to know. I'll look about planting that information. I'll do the best I can in that regard. I've been told that you've already felled another of the Conclave, is that correct?"
Travis: Yes.
Laura: That's true. Umbrasyl. Dead and gone.
Matt: "That will certainly stir some attention from them."
Laura: Yeah, and if not that, then the message left in there.
Taliesin: They know we did it.
Travis: Strange that he had all those wyverns with him, though. Umbrasyl had none. He was by himself.
Liam: They don't like each other, though, this is some sort of loose partnership.
Travis: Yeah, but didn't they say the white one was more savage. More emotional?
Laura: The white one was more vain.
Marisha: Yeah, the black one, Umbrasyl is the one that's--
Sam: Oh you're right, the white one is a hunter, it's primal. Hates others. You're right.
Taliesin: Maybe the army's going to head to-- no, we could be so lucky if it was on its way to attack it.
Marisha: Black ones like torture, right?
Laura: Yeah, they like to make people suffer.
Taliesin: I feel like there should be trading cards.
Sam: So the white one's like Predator?
Laura: Shut up! There's notes somewhere in here!
Matt: "Just be warned  fell one dragon, that might make them nervous. Fell another and that's almost certain to bring retaliation."
Taliesin: We were hoping to distract them.
Matt: "Well, the next wyrm you decide to fell will probably be the start of this war."
Travis: Can we ask, why would it bring retaliation? How would they know it was us?
Taliesin: We did sign the card.
Marisha: We left our names.
Laura: Maybe the next one we can sign as somebody else.
Travis: What if we don't sign it?
Liam: Even if we don't, they probably are going to get much more vindictive overall.
Marisha: And just as much as we can scry on them, they can scry on us. I'm sure they've been watching us.
Taliesin: I don't think they know where we are. I think they know when we travel, I just don't think they know where we are.
Matt: "Have any of the living ones seen you?"
Laura: Have any what?
Matt: "Have any of the living ones seen you and know you for who you are?"
Travis: When we killed the first one, there were a bunch of jewels in the wall and we saw a bunch of eyeballs.
Taliesin: He did not know our name, but he has seen us.
Laura: Raishan saw us, the white one saw us, all of them saw us.
Matt: "Then it is very possible."
Sam: Wait a second, you just said no one knew we were here, none of them knew we were here.
Taliesin: Here.
Sam: They just attacked here. And we just got back here.
Laura: Gilmore was scrying on them. It took three days for him to get here. That's how he knew.
Sam: Because Gilmore was scrying on them. Got it. Not because we have a leak.
Taliesin: We probably do. We should assume we have a leak.
Sam: I'm going to blame Shaun.
Taliesin: Is he Shaun now?
Matt: "You're more than welcome to."
Sam: Sorry! (chuckles)
Matt: He's sitting down, wiping his brow with this really fine scarf.
Marisha: Judging based on what happened in Emon, we know that they have an insider, we just don't know who yet.
Sam: They do? We know this?
Taliesin: I would assume that there's nothing we say that they don't know at this point.
Laura: They struck during a political--
Marisha: During a council meeting.
Laura: Somebody has to be telling them things.
Marisha: Someone probably very high up.
Laura: It could be Raishan taking the form of a human again, for all we know.
Sam: Who was there and lived? Besides us?
Matt: Jarett catches up, by the way. (panting) "Is everyone all right?"
Laura: Yes. How are the citizens? Did you get everyone in there?
Matt: "Everyone seems to be safe and accounted for. There was a lot of fear, of course, but elation, whatever you did." And he looks at you and looks at Shaun. "Whatever you did, keep doing it, please."
Travis: I insight check Jarett.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Travis: Seven.
Matt: It's hard to read that fella. Slippery.
Liam: Can I do an insight check on Asum?
Matt: You may.
Laura: What are you doing?
Sam: Ooh, that was a Luck.
Liam: First one was good anyway.
Laura: Oh, you're just hoping? First one was really good.
Liam: Damn. I can choose whichever one I want. 21.
Matt: 21.
Laura: About Jarett?! You're insighting Jarett?
Sam: Seeker Asum.
Taliesin: Perhaps we should not have... assumed.
Marisha: Hey, Travis! How is it you're on this side of the table?
Travis: Well I was looking for a Loot Crate. Have you guys seen any Loot Crates?
Sam: Oh! Well I've got some of the great swag that you can get in a Loot Crate. Why this shirt came in one last week.
Travis: That's incredible! How do I get one of those?
Sam: You go to LootCrate.com/CriticalRole to see your selection and then if you sign up, you get three dollars off the first month, which is a really good deal!
Taliesin: Ironically when we played the game at home this is exactly what we'd do.
Matt: Totally.
Liam: Sam who are you talking to? You're facing a potted plant.
Sam: I'm talking to Seeker Asum! He's a big fanboy.
Matt: Gilmore stands up and catches the edge of Vax's shoulder.
Liam: Hey.
Matt: "All right, so, what's your plan? What's the next order of business?"
Laura: Get you a drink, I think.
Matt: "A drink would be great."
Taliesin: I think we talk and drink.
Laura: Yes. We need to talk about barricading underground. Making it more secure.
Matt: "Come. I can definitely use that right now." You guys are led into the nearest open-- it looks to be an unused tavern, but there are drinks, ale and things that are at the ready. There isn't much commerce currently happening in the city, since right now everything's in survival mode, so there's no exchange of money, you guys are presented with drinks. The lanterns are lit on the inside from other villagers that are just happy to help. And the central table is set where you all sit around and quietly have a few sips.
Liam: While everyone's sitting, can I just pull him over to a corner for a second?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: How are you doing, personally?
Matt: "Me?"
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: "Wondrous! I'm doing great! (chuckles) I'm exhausted."
Liam: Shaun, I--
Matt: "I'll be fine."
Liam: You sure?
Matt: "Yes, I'm fine."
Liam: All right.
Matt: "It's been a long time since I put my energy and talents towards anything beyond making shiny things. Feels nice to be helping others."
Liam: Well, I feel we're seeing your true talents.
Matt: "I'm at my wits' end with these. Do you want to see true talents? You should ask Allura to show you what she's capable of when she gets back."
Liam: She is pretty nifty.
Matt: (sighs heavily)
Liam: Well, come on, come and have a drink.
Matt: And he like leans on you a bit and you both make it back to the table. The rest of you--
Sam: This booze is okay, but Grog, I could really use the finest wine I've ever had.
Travis: Oh shit, hold on.
Laura: We've got some fancy-ass bottles.
Travis: I reach into the bag of holding and I grab five expensive-ass bottles of wine.
Liam: Holla!
Marisha: Scanlan and I will share one.
Sam: Good idea.
Laura: Just one bottle between the two of you?
Sam: We don't weigh very much.
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: I'm involved in this. This is exciting.
Matt: You guys scatter the wine amongst your glasses. Drinks are had as you begin to discuss the plan.
Taliesin: Pour one for the landlord as well. He's letting us drink our wine in his room.
Matt: Asum leans in. "All right. So. Vestiges. Defenses. Allies, what's the next plan? What's the next--"
Travis: Well, I've a question. If I were to call somewhere a City of Brass, where would you think that would be?
Matt: Asum goes, "There are cities that use brass in parts of construction in Wildemount, that's as far--" Gilmore leans forward and goes, "No, that's in the Elemental Plane of Fire. That's a dangerous, terrible place that you should never go."
Travis: We were already there once, actually.
Taliesin: Terrible dangerous places you should never go are practically our middle name.
Laura: We saw Thordak there, actually.
Matt: "Oh! Even more of a reason not to go!"
Marisha: Well, he's here now, so Fire Plane's probably safer!
Taliesin: She's got a very fair point.
Laura: Why do you ask, Grog?
Travis: Well, look, the Plate of the Dawnmartyr is in a City of Brass, but I don't know where that is.
Laura: I bet that sounds something Pike would like.
Travis: Draconia is in Wildemount?
Matt: "Draconia is in Wildemount, yes."
Travis: Right. And so is the big white fuck, right?
Taliesin: Yes. Are any of the Vestiges in Wildemount?
Travis: The City of Brass?
Matt: "Whereabouts are the Vestiges?"
Liam: One at the bottom of the sea.
Laura: One is in Marquet?
Marisha: The City of Brass is in the Plane of Fire. We've covered that.
Sam: It's not in Draconia? It's in the Plane of Fire?
Marisha: The city is in the Plane of Fire.
Sam: Correct. Where's Ank'Harel?
Marisha: Ank'Harel is on the continent of-- what's it's called?
Matt: Gilmore chuckles to himself, "Ank'Harel. It's been awhile." And looks at--
Marisha: What's the continent? I suddenly blanked on it. You just said it.
Matt: Marquet.
Marisha: Marquet. It's on the continent of Marquet.
Matt: Ank'Harel is also where Jarett is from, which is where you first heard. Gilmore smiles. "It's where I grew up, or nearabouts, at least."
Sam: Where you grew up, Gilmore?
Matt: "Well, not in the city, a little ways out a bit."
Sam: You're Marquatian?
Matt: "Originally, yes, but I've been living here most of my life. Soon as I had the opportunity to leave-- It's a free plane here in Tal'Dorei and all the shops I can muster... until they all got destroyed."
Laura: Good times.
Matt: "It's fine. I'd made the bottom floors too small anyway. More space. Next time."
Liam: You ever want to revisit home?
Matt: "Maybe. Nah. I need to stay here and maintain this."
Laura: Yes you do. If you don't mind.
Sam: What about the endless maze of the Abyss? That's another place that we're supposed to go.
Marisha: Also another plane of existence.
Matt: "I don't know much about the Abyss, but I know that it's probably the worst place ever."
Laura: Abyssal. That's where demons come from.
Travis: Worse than the Fire Plane?
Matt: "That's correct."
Laura: That's the thing that killed Pike.
Travis: Wait, isn't that where the rakshasa's going to be?
Marisha: That's in the Nine Hells.
Liam: He's a devil.
Taliesin: Ironically is somewhere else entirely.
Liam: And I think we can table Meowmix for a little bit. Somebody told us it takes a while.
Laura: Months and months.
Marisha: Months but we also don't want to wait until--
Liam: Not forever.
Travis: Who's got a map?
Sam: I've got a map.
Travis: Where's the Ozmit Sea?
Taliesin: Before we even think of this, we should see what we're-- I don't think we're going to collect all of the Vestiges. We should see what other Vestiges we think are going to be helpful.
Sam: It's like the Pacific Ocean.
Travis: Which direction is it? Towards Draconia?
Sam: No. Draconia's across the Atlantic Ocean in France.
Marisha: But the Ozmit Sea is where the Water Ashari reside. And I have to go there anyway. It's also where Pike is very familiar. I'm pretty sure that's the sea that she sailed?
Liam: And the Vestige there is the staff?
Laura: Whisper, right?
Sam: Whisper, the blade.
Marisha: Whisper, the blade.
Travis: Well, look, hey, so I have an idea, right. Someone mentioned that the white dragon is very vain and very savage. He's got like all those wyverns around him. That's a little bit of a bitch for us. We're usually good one dragon on all of us. You got a whole gang, worse for us. So what about if we played to his vanity, and maybe sent him knocking on one of his Conclave brother's doors. Maybe start a little beef that maybe's not there.
Sam: How do we do that?
Travis: I don't know, the idea just popped up. I'm looking for your help and shit.
Liam: He's a big picture man. Here's the detail fellow.
Travis: You know how tired I am right now?
Laura: We're so tired.
Taliesin: I think that we've been thinking about this the wrong way. I think that we've been treating this as a battle. And we have to start treating this like a war, which is a very different creature.
Sam: Are we guerrillas?
Taliesin: We are absolutely not.
Liam: Beret.
Travis: Wolverines!
Taliesin: We need to reinforce this city not as a final stand, but as a place where there might be survivors. Because if they come here, there's no battle to be fought. It's just a loss.
Laura: We need to take it--
Marisha: Elsewhere.
Matt: At this point Jarett steps out from back of the room and says, "The more time that goes by, the more chance there is that the battle, the war, will be fought here. On our turf. The faster we move, the better chance we have of bringing it to theirs, so let us not dilly-dally."
Marisha: You mentioned about having our own mole at one point. Our own inside man.
Travis: Yeah. Scanlan.
Sam: I'm not going to volunteer myself as a slave to the dragon.
Travis: Keep thinking about it.
Liam: You are a sexy dinosaur.
Sam: I'm considering it.
Travis: You'll be the Hercules Mulligan of Vox Machina.
All: Hercules Mulligan!
Taliesin: I would like to talk to some of the magic users about installing some sort of-- or perhaps helping me install a non-magical dragon raid signal so that the population knows to be quiet, and knows to quietly go underground. In the event of the next fly-by.
Matt: They all look at each other and Gilmore nods. "That's actually, I wouldn't say rudimentary, but it's definitely within my skill set."
Taliesin: Would triggering it possibly alert them to our existence? Does it make holding up the shield--
Matt: "Not if I can maintain it underneath the barrier."
Sam: Does the barrier block sound and visuals?
Matt: "It should."
Sam: And is there any way that we can help you make this barrier more permanent and stronger?
Matt: "I don't know. This was crafted for this reason. This isn't a long standing existing incantation. This was crafted through the minds of Drake Thunderbrand and Allura and myself and Pike's aid. This is a new magic, it's experimental, and to be perfectly honest, I'm very glad it succeeded because I was--"
Laura: Just guessing?
Matt: "Essentially."
Liam: Also, Gilmore, as a sidebar, what about that black ball beneath the city? Has anything been learned of it?
Matt: "We've been a bit distracted."
Liam: That's what I thought.
Taliesin: I would like to put it to use.
Laura: Wait, what?
Taliesin: We're at war.
Laura: We can't move it.
Taliesin: We're not going to move it.
Sam: We're going inside it.
Taliesin: I want to put the private council table in the room with it.
Sam: In the room where it happens?
Laura: So they can't scry into the room, it cancels all magic.
Taliesin: So no glamor will survive, no magic will survive, no trick can be allowed.
Matt: "I love your mind, Percy. Have I told you that? I love your mind. I love it."
Taliesin: That's probably a bad sign, but thank you.
Matt: "We'll do that immediately. It sounds like a grand plan." Asum says, "Not a worry. We'll do that immediately."
Sam: We'll just have to Seeker Asum that it happened? (laughter)
Taliesin: We should move quickly. We should pick a couple of Vestiges and move quickly, collect them. Start finding more allies, move quickly. But we should not dally too long.
Marisha: And I agree, we might not be able to wait to get them all before we start taking on dragons. We might want to do both.
Matt: Jarett says, "If you're looking to go to the Ozmit Sea, you'll probably need a ship of some kind. It's quite a far travel and that distance as well and the docks on the west coast right now are, well they're locked down at Emon."
Taliesin: Could Cabal's Ruin--
Laura: How long is the travel to Marquet?
Matt: "Travel by boat, across the Ozmit, maybe about a week, a week and a half. Skyship, maybe half as long."
Sam: Airship. Airship. Airship?!
Matt: Gilmore actually steps in and is like, "Technically, I have a teleportation sigil outside the city. I could probably just get you there."
Sam: Wait, to go to where? Marquet?
Liam: Walking is really good for the health though.
Marisha: And first level characters, which we are not.
Sam: Hold on. Before we decide that Marquet is the thing.
Taliesin: It's Cabal's Ruin, correct? We're going to search for Cabal's Ruin.
Travis: Are we at all just forgetting the fact that Draconia is lying in ruins?
Taliesin: We don't have time.
Laura: No, it's not about time. The dragon is sitting on top of Draconia.
Sam: So we know where to find him to kill him.
Laura: Unless we know how to take on that dragon, we can't save anyone.
Sam: wE've killed dragons before.
Taliesin: I will feel better with one or two more Vestiges in our pocket.
Liam: By the skin of our teeth, Scanlan. By the skin of its gut.
Taliesin: We got lucky.
Sam: I like Grog's idea. Is there a way to explore that any further?
Marisha: Pitting the dragons against each other?
Sam: Yes!
Taliesin: I think it's a great idea worth exploring.
Liam: Seeker Asum is on it. He said that he was going to--
Sam: Seeker Asum is great, but we're the best in the business. I wouldn't leave our plan A to someone not us.
Laura: Seeker Asum is telling people that this city has been magicked away.
Matt: Asum is also still at the table.
Marisha: Yeah, he's right there.
Taliesin: We're drunk, we will talk about you in third person as much as we want.
Laura: We're just reiterating the things that you told us you were going to say.
Matt: "That's all right."
Taliesin: We figured you would speak up if you had issue.
Laura: Plus it's really fun to say your name.
Matt: "Never heard it before, I assure you."
Travis: How far away is Draconia from here? Travel wise?
Matt: "Well, my usual travel to Wildemount is across the northern channel here. I'd say you're looking at about two weeks of travel by ship across the Lucidian Ocean."
Marisha: Or we can always teleport. I can Tree Stride. I can always Tree Stride.
Sam: Have you been to Draconia?
Marisha: I can scry and look at a tree.
Matt: Tree Stride is a short distance. You mean Transport via Plants.
Marisha: Whatever. They all sound the same. I can scry, look at a tree, and then we go through that tree.
Sam: If there's any trees left.
Laura: There's definitely at least--
Marisha: I'm hoping there's a tree on that continent.
Liam: Are we talking though about how scrying is a little dangerous right now?
Marisha: When you're scrying on dragon.
Laura: When you're scrying on a tree.
Marisha: Yeah, the tree doesn't know it's being spied on.
Travis: Doesn't Draconia have an army there? If there are any survivors, anyone we can bring back to Whitestone, shouldn't we be accumulating those people?
Taliesin: I think if there's a dragon sitting on top of them, removing people from him is--
Travis: We're sneaky, we're so sneaky!
Laura: Are we sneaky?
Travis: Yeah! Pike's not even here.
Laura: You have your memories of the Feywild, do you remember sloshing around in that black sludge? Very loudly?
Marisha: Do you remember us walking into the town center to kill Kevdak? That wasn't sneaky.
Travis: No, no that was personal.
Taliesin: Grog, I think you're thinking of a battle we can win, as opposed to a war we're losing.
Travis: Yeah, no, look I'm not trying to pick a fight with a dragon, I'm just going to make sure that dragonborn are there and we can help them.
Taliesin: We can help them by killing the dragon.
Liam: Yes.
Travis: Wow.
Taliesin: Vax is agreeing with me.
Matt: "Actually that's pretty sound. If you manage to defeat the dragon there, you'll probably gather the survivors and have them join the cause against Emon. If you have means of transporting them. Remember, once a dragon is down, it's--"
Laura: It's on.
Matt: "It's on."
Sam: Grog is the best thinker.
Marisha: Yeah. We pull the trigger on one, we pull the trigger on all of them.
Laura: I can't believe if we fight one that means we have to fight--
Travis: Well, listen. Again, I'm not trying to kill the white dragon.
Taliesin: What is the white dragon going to do--
Travis: I want him to go pick a fight with the other dragons.
Laura: How are we going to do that, though?
Liam: We're working on that as a side venture. What are we going to do there to make that happen?
Marisha: We can't really stroll up to it and be like--
Travis: You guys don't know how to pick a fight? You honestly can't brainstorm one way to pick a fight?
Marisha: We are very good at picking fights. It's getting the dragons to pick fights on others.
Sam: We can probably plan a ruse.
Laura: Oh, and how would you do it, Grog?
Travis: I would talk mad shit to the white dragon on behalf of the green dragon. I would rep the green dragon.
Laura: Oh my god, Grog, he will never see through that! That's brilliant.
Liam: You are really strong. That's the end of it, I have nothing else to say.
Travis: I'm just saying, I feel like an opportunity's being wasted here.
Taliesin: I think an opportunity's being tabled briefly.
Marisha: We've got to think about it.
Taliesin: I don't think this is nearly as time sensitive.
Travis: Fine. Someone else do the thinking.
Marisha: Breeding hostility between the two is something that could take weeks, which we don't have.
Taliesin: Well, we could start it. It's also something other people can do while we do other things.
Liam: Yes. Delegate.
Marisha: But how? It literally involves going to one dragon and saying: Hey, did you hear what that other dragon said about you? That's all I got.
Taliesin: Well, there are other ways to do it. In traditional warfare, you can do things like cause damage to the property of one dragon and leave scant evidence that the other dragon, or one of the dragon's people, was somehow responsible. Have a raiding, somehow get wyverns to raid near--
Marisha: Wait, hang on. That first thing you said.
Taliesin: Yes. It's the easiest level.
Marisha: I think I might have an idea. Okay, we know the white dragon is vain.
Laura: Right? We know that?
Matt: All dragons to an extent are vain. It's part of the nature of the chromatics.
Sam: White dragon loves the thrill of the hunt.
Matt: The white dragon is the most comparably primal. They're all in various stages of hyperintelligence. The white dragon is the one that's the most... beastlike.
Taliesin: If the white dragon is a hunter, the easiest way to incite damage is to sneak into the city and start mauling and killing Draconians that are left over, and just leaving bodies everywhere that he wasn't responsible for.
Marisha: What?!
Taliesin: That is the sort of decisions we're going to start having to make.
Laura: What if somebody can Polymorph into a little green dragon or something?
Marisha: Yeah, you went to 11 there on let's start continuing the genocide.
Laura: Fuck shit up as a dragon and leave evidence behind as a green dragon.
Sam: I've seen the green dragon. Raishan?
Matt: You have seen the dragon.
Sam: How big?
Matt: Gargantuan. And you cannot Polymorph into dragons. You can only transform into beasts.
Sam: I understand.
Matt: Fairly large, yeah. I'd say probably-- Raishan is the smallest of the dragons you saw, but even at the smallest of them, is still a good 30 feet to the shoulder.
Sam: I could do that.
Liam: Gather all the papier-mch you have in the city.
Sam: I could do something pretty close to that.
Travis: I bet you could do a lot of incredible things.
Sam: Are you Tony Robbins? (laughter)
Taliesin: I think this is a conversation that can continue through Marquet. I don't think we're going to come up with the best idea tonight.
Marisha: But we need to get something started. Here's what we learned.
Sam: At dawn.
Marisha: At dawn we drink some more. We learned that Thordak is enslaving sculptors to build his image all around Emon. What we have learned is it seems that each of the dragons have picked a city, a domain. Maybe this domain was part of the bargain to join Thordak's cause. Help me, you get your own city.
Taliesin: A reasonable and astute observation, yes.
Marisha: So I bet the white dragon would be real pissed off if statues of Thordak started popping up around Draconia.
Laura: Or the green dragon.
Marisha: Or the green dragon.
Travis: Or maybe even statues where Umbrasyl's nest was.
Taliesin: Let's pick a dragon.
Laura: Vorugal is the white dragon?
Sam: Raishan is the green. Here's the problem with goading Vorugal the white to find and kill Raishan the green. No one knows where Raishan the green is, including Vorugal.
Laura: How do you know Vorugal doesn't know?
Sam: Because Raishan's the shapeshifter, and no one knows where she is, including Gilmore, who's been scrying for a week to try to find her.
Laura: Yeah, but the white dragon might have some way to communicate.
Travis: Do we know how they communicate?
Liam: Yes, we do. There were some baubles in a wall in Krieg's secret cave.
Laura: They have other balls, right?
Travis: Gilmore, Asum, do either of you have a theory on how they communicate?
Matt: Gilmore looks to Asum. "I have not been to any of their bases. Asum, you've been watching Thordak." He looks back. "Within his domain in the Cloudtop, he has... apparently an overhead airplane."
Laura: It's very loud.
Matt: Trust me, it was strange. "He has a number of various spies that are sworn to him that act as his network of information to and from the Cloudtop and his throne of black glass and molten rock. He does have singular pillars placed around that contain four orbs that he would speak into on occasion."
Marisha: And didn't we see something similar in Umbrasyl's and when we killed the blue?
Laura: We saw orbs in Umbrasyl's?
Marisha: Yeah, remember, it cracked and it was like, I'm coming for you! And we were like, we don't know what that means! And we ignored it.
Laura: That was in Brimscythe's.
Liam: Did we see that in the black?
Travis: They were broken already.
Matt: Yeah. They were already shattered.
Laura: He shattered them. Fuck.
Sam: Why did he shatter them?
Laura: So that we wouldn't be able to scry on anyone else. Or he was pissed!
Sam: He was pissed at the other dragons, maybe.
Liam: But it's not safe to assume-- Asum, sorry-- that they're not in communication. We have to assume that they are. I'm so sorry.
Matt: "It's all right. It's not like my childhood friend Purvon." (laughter)
Taliesin: There is a thought. This is a very good idea. You've got a very good idea.
Sam: What's the idea?
Marisha: I said we start planting statues of Thordak or Raishan in other dragons' territories. Ultimately, though, what we need is we need someone who knows the dragons' weaknesses. We need to know what pushes their buttons.
Sam: We know what pushes their buttons.
Taliesin: We need to know what pushes the reset button. Why am I speaking in video game metaphor?
Liam: What?
Taliesin: Nothing. Drink.
Sam: We can throw up some statues and cause some havoc, but if they have these orbs that communicate with each other, then the white can call Thordak and say: Hey, what's up with these statues? And Thordak can say: No, it's not me.
Taliesin: Not statues. Idols. Small images of the white dragon for worship.
Liam: You're gambling on jealousy.
Taliesin: Start hiding them in places. If we start seeding them, especially in Emon, as if he is trying to get people to worship him in other cities as well, silently, quietly underneath--
Sam: We'll make t-shirts that say Team Vorugal.
Taliesin: We just have to make sure that we don't use the stone from here.
Marisha: Well, because we know that Thordak is definitely vain.
Taliesin: And this will piss him off. And if he says what are you doing, I don't know anything about this.
Laura: Yeah, he would deny it. Of course he would deny it.
Marisha: And we're assuming-- sorry-- that they'll ask instead of jumping to conclusions.
Taliesin: I like it.
Laura: Even if he jumps to conclusions, he would be pissed.
Sam: But we know that Thordak is a total asshole-- Sorry. (laughter)
Sam: So we know he'll be pissed off, more or less.
Matt: His scarred eye twitches for a moment.
Marisha: And we wonder why people hate us.
Matt: Asum leans into the conversation and goes, "We have many crafters and artisans that are within the grasp of the Clasp as well, within Emon. We can begin to have these made and scattered throughout the various offerings brought to the center of the city."
Taliesin: Little shrines, hidden in ruins.
Matt: "I like this."
Marisha: Hashtag Team Vorugal.
Matt: "We can make this happen." You can make that happen. Hashtag Team Vorugal.
Taliesin: I still will admit that Cabal's Ruin is one of the Vestiges I feel would be-- and not just because I would like to use it.
Marisha: Is Ank'harel and the Ozmit Sea in the same area? Can we hit one on our way to the other?
Matt: The Ozmit Sea is in between Tal'Dorei and-- from your perspective, it's Tal'Dorei and Marquet, and the Ozmit Sea is what's in between.
Taliesin: So we could do a triple.
Marisha: We could do a triple. Because I have to get to the Water Ashari at some point.
Taliesin: And that's very important, because we need them on our side.
Sam: Between what and what?
Taliesin: Ozmit Sea, so it's over here.
Sam: It's between what and who?
Matt: The Ozmit Sea is between Marquet and Tal'Dorei.
Sam: Is this Tal'Dorei?
Marisha: We're on Tal'Dorei.
Sam: So Marquet is Japan.
Matt: More Australia.
Sam: Got it. Is this world round? Can we go the other way?
Taliesin: Actually, this world is shaped like a d20, so we're on the flat part at the five.
Sam: Can't go the other way?
Matt: You could eventually get there. It is round.
Laura: Would I know how fast dragons can actually fly? If it's a two-week trip to get to Draconia from where we are--
Matt: Two weeks via ship. Ocean ship.
Laura: Okay. If they were flying, how fast could they get there, potentially?
Travis: I'm only saying, maybe it's empty, right?
Marisha: What is?
Travis: Draconia.
Matt: I'm going to make some mathematics here, if you'll excuse me.
Travis: I'm only saying, if they were just here--
Sam: But we could bamf there right now.
Laura: Check it out and get out before they get back.
Travis: Get people out, do recon, whatever.
Sam: Plant some seeds.
Marisha: Plant some seeds.
Laura: They've probably left a good amount of army there to keep people under control. We'd have to get in and out in a couple of hours.
Sam: And what would our mission be?
Liam: Dump a couple of statues.
Laura: We don't have them.
Taliesin: Let other people do that.
Sam: Wait. What about, instead of dumping statues, we find these orbs? We find his lair, we find his orbs, and we call Thordak and we do a voice like: Yo, Thordak! You're a dickhead! I'm going to come kill you! Or we just smash them.
Taliesin: I don't know why everyone's so excited about the notion of pissing off the dragons to the point at which they all come here, but it is a way to go.
Sam: They don't know we're here.
Taliesin: They know we're here.
Travis: I'm just pointing out an opportunity where there is one.
Sam: That's true.
Matt: A few days.
Laura: It would take them a few days to get there?
Travis: A few days? We would have a whole fucking day!
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: At this point in time, it's mid-afternoon, evening.
Sam: We have to rest.
Liam: Percival, even just for intelligence, even if it was brief, even to see what is going on there.
Taliesin: We have to make sure that we can get out immediately, and we also have to agree that if things start looking too iffy, we run.
Marisha: I have an idea.
Sam: You have the best ideas.
Marisha: Thank you.
Sam: Lay it on me.
Marisha: Can you Seeming us to all look like lizard army members?
Sam: Tomorrow. And we'll look like us, except vaguely like lizard people.
Travis: Why not wyverns?
Sam: First of all, the lizard army, is that different from wyverns? So they're just scaly creepers. I can do that.
Laura: Have you seen the lizard people?
Sam: No, but I'll see them when we get there.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You've come across a few of the lizardfolk. They attacked you in Emon. They were on the wyverns. They're humanoid. They're a little larger than one of your half-elf companions or Percy.
Marisha: We fought them on the airship, too, right?
Matt: No, those were bandits. You fought wyverns.
Sam: We could be lizard people, for sure.
Laura: Wait, what?
Taliesin: We could look like lizard people, and it would trick anybody who wasn't a dragon. And if the dragon came, we would be fucked. That would be the end. That would be game over.
Sam: (singing) We could be lizard people!
Taliesin: I'm going to go on record as saying I do not think this is the right move.
Liam: What do you think is the right move?
Sam: He wants to go to Marquet to find some cloak that may or may not help us in a week.
Taliesin: Will help us. Getting three more Vestiges, two more Vestiges, just a little bit more power before starting to play chess again.
Laura: Really the only point of going there would be reconnaissance. That's it. No fighting.
Travis: When else are we going to know for sure?
Taliesin: There's an ancient dwarven saying, and I'm trying to remember where I heard it, but it goes somewhere along the lines of, it's never a three-hour tour. That's my fear.
Travis: Yeah, I know an ancient dwarven one that says no risk...
Sam: That's it.
Taliesin: Your mind is a grandfather clock, you know that.
Travis: Thank you.
Taliesin: It's correct twice a day, easily.
Sam: If we go, what is our mission?
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: To get as many innocents out as we can.
Laura: No. That sounds wonderful, but if we get people out, they're going to know something happened.
Marisha: I figured if we find good fighters once again, and do our tree, our teleport thing--
Sam: We can get 13 people out. That's it.
Marisha: But it could be the 13 people that could change the tide.
Taliesin: This is not going to be a fight of 13 people.
Sam: We had a group of 50 goliaths, and they were all killed instantly.
Marisha: That's what I'm saying.
Laura: Plus, if we're lizard people, the survivors aren't going to be wanting--
Taliesin: They're going to be wondering who we are, first off.
Laura: They're going to be afraid of us.
Sam: I would only want to go there if we had a distinct plan to disrupt or trick or steal.
Travis: Disrupting communications is a great tactic.
Taliesin: We're not going to be able to disrupt communication.
Travis: You don't think we're going to make it to the jewels and smashy-smash?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: I don't think that's a good idea.
Sam: And I slice the dragon's throat! And I say, I am victorious!
Liam: That sounds like a plan. Let's go.
Matt: So what are you guys doing?
Taliesin: Tightening up. We're going to go. What are we going for?
Sam: Smash the orbs.
Marisha: Well, here's something else I want to put into perspective. If I scry and teleport us to the black dragon's lair, I can do one more scry, and then I would burn my seventh level spell to get us there again, and then I'd be tapped out.
Laura: So we wouldn't be able to bamf out.
Marisha: We wouldn't be able to bamf out that day. We'd be staying the night.
Sam: But I can get us a safe place to stay for the night, no matter where we are.
Taliesin: But it means this is not a one-day, this is a three-day mission.
Marisha: I could not teleport us. It depends on how many times. I've got two teleports, so I can teleport us there and teleport us out, but we'd be doing it from here.
Taliesin: We teleport to the black dragon's lair, we sleep overnight, teleport in, teleport out. And then sleep overnight, teleport either to Whitestone or to Marquet.
Sam: Can you teleport today? Or are you done?
Matt: You can only use that once per day, though, right?
Marisha: I used Plane Shift. I didn't use Transport Via Plants. Yes. Wait. No. I Moved Earth. I can't do it today. It has to be tomorrow. And if that's the case, it's tomorrow, then we lose that two-day grace period. Unless we go right now and sleep overnight in Draconia and start first thing in the morning.
Taliesin: And risk a very reasonable reason that they would know where we are.
Matt: As far as I know, Plane Shift can't teleport you on the same plane. It brings you specifically to another plane of existence.
Marisha: Yeah. I'm saying I cast Plane Shift from the Feywild to here. That's all I'm saying. But I used that, and that's a seventh level spell.
Sam: So if we go to Draconia tonight, if we want to sleep in the mansion, we can't, because I changed his memory.
Laura: Oh fuck.
Sam: So we would have to sleep out in the open as lizard people.
Laura: Nope.
Liam: Too many negatives now.
Laura: This is danger zone.
Marisha: We're getting a lot of cons. There's not so many pros.
Taliesin: We need to sleep anyway, because we're exhausted.
Travis: Oh man. I can find all sorts of problems with a situation if I look hard enough.
Taliesin: That is so astute. It's 12 00. My god, he had a thought.
Travis: Opportunity. Honestly. There's a dragon's perch, and he is vacated, and it will probably never happen again as far as we know.
Taliesin: I disagree. I think the next time they come to attack and kill us, it will be vacated.
Travis: Cool. While they're killing Whitestone because we didn't take advantage of this moment, then we'll go to Draconia.
Taliesin: I agree. I legitimately agree.
Laura: We can sleep and wake up in the morning and teleport there.
Taliesin: We do have to sleep, regardless. There's no getting around sleep.
Laura: We can't fucking go there when we haven't slept, Grog. We'll all die.
Taliesin: We can't actually get there right now.
Marisha: There's also no guarantee that they're going straight back there. Maybe they're heading somewhere else. They were heading with an army to somewhere. It's probably not a city they've already conquered.
Taliesin: They were heading southeast.
Matt: Southeast is what you saw, yes.
Sam: That's where they live.
Taliesin: So they're probably heading back home.
Marisha: Balls. Then where did they come from? What were they doing?
Liam: They were fishing.
Taliesin: They thought that we might be here, and they took a quick look around, which is why I don't want to make any more noise around here.
Sam: Let's sleep.
Taliesin: I'm going to go to the barkeep.
Matt: There is no barkeep here. This tavern has been opened just for you guys to be served. There is no current owner here. Most everyone who helped you open this are yourselves and a couple of civilians that were just there.
Taliesin: Is there a civilian waitress?
Matt: There is no waitress. There are a couple civilians outside, but as soon as you guys started talking, all the civilians left the room.
Laura: They're so nice.
Taliesin: There's no barmaid at all?
Liam: Your nobility is showing, Percival.
Sam: I need a young boy. (laughter)
Liam: These white gloves are sullied. I need a new set of white gloves, please.
Taliesin: They're shooting mittens, and you're so uncouth.
Sam: I have an Unseen Servant. Do you need a servant? I make an Unseen Servant for him.
Matt: There's a wisp of air.
Sam: Command him as you see fit.
Taliesin: Never mind. This is what I get for trying to be nice to anybody. I've learned my lesson.
Sam: I tip the Unseen Servant.
Matt: You toss the coin and it (clinks) to the ground.
Travis: I pounce on it.
Matt: You (soft impact) into this weird cluster of air. It's pushing your beard hair back, and your mouth is full of all that air pushing into it as you reach into the Unseen Servant, grab the coin, and pull it out.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Well done. You got a gold.
Taliesin: We'll sleep for now. We'll wake up in the morning, and we'll either go in one direction or the other.
Laura: Good plan, guys. Good plan.
Marisha: We came up with nothing.
Taliesin: That's so not true. We came up with a lot. We just have to sleep and then make a decision based on what the world looks like in the morning.
Liam: Dream about a cloak, Percival. Maybe we can get you a cloak.
Taliesin: That cloak sounds useful.
Marisha: All right, let's sleep. Let's go to the castle.
Matt: You guys find your way to the castle.
Taliesin: As a side, I want to grab Vex for a quick walk on the way to the castle. I want to go by the cemetery. Has it been worked on, by the way? I suppose I'll find out.
Liam: You did say Vex, right?
Taliesin: Vax.
Liam: You said Vex.
Taliesin: Vax. I've been drinking. I've not even been drinking, I've been pretend drinking.
Matt: All right. You grab him.
Taliesin: I have something to show you.
Liam: What is it?
Taliesin: You'll like it. Well, I don't know if you'll like it. I don't know what you like. I'm going to take him to the cemetery, to the crypt. The title I gave your sister doesn't come with much, but it does come with one, at the moment, tiny plot of land, on which a crypt sits. This was the resting place of the father and grandfather and assorted family members of the man you killed the first night we came here.
Liam: You want my sister to live in a mausoleum?
Taliesin: No. I want something else to live in a mausoleum. This is actually for you. Open it. I go and I light the two little torches on the side. This is very traditional, and it should open. Do you trust me?
Liam: Uh...
Taliesin: Good answer. I'll go in first.
Matt: Percy enters the building.
Liam: I follow.
Matt: Okay. As you enter the mausoleum, the gentle flickering of torchlight that was lit by Percy shows the interior, though it is low-lit partially, and your darkvision does catch you. What was once a relatively decent mausoleum seems to have been gutted, retrofit, and now you see standing before you, is a mostly constructed shrine to the Raven Queen.
Taliesin: I figured it would be a good idea. I've had my fill of gods, but I'm not so foolish to think that we do not need them still. This is here when you need it.
Liam: I am having trouble.
Taliesin: Me, too. I do not want to die who I am. I would like to live long enough to be someone else. I think you understand that.
Liam: I've been really angry at you.
Taliesin: I've been encouraging it.
Liam: I don't know if it's entirely fair, but I can't shake it. I don't know that I'm willing to let go of it yet.
Taliesin: Good. I certainly do not deserve it yet. I don't know if I ever will. But I can't think of anything else to do with my time on earth right now, other than... this. I am finished with gods. They will not help me. Maybe you will.
Liam: Percy.
Taliesin: Yes?
Liam: I've always liked you. From the beginning, I've always liked you.
Taliesin: I've always liked you, too.
Liam: You are intelligent and charming.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: And good in a tight spot.
Taliesin: It's the open spaces where I suffer. The tight spots, I feel very good about. It's the open spaces. This is a very tight spot.
Liam: I would like to be friends with you again. I just have a condition.
Taliesin: Yes?
Liam: My penchant for forgiveness with my sister's welfare is razor thin.
Taliesin: I know.
Liam: If you can respect that, then we don't have a problem.
Taliesin: Do you know why I titled your sister?
Liam: I have some idea.
Taliesin: She thought she was missing something that-- and I use this term loosely-- ordinary people... We have a magic we use, to convince people that we deserve the things we get, those of us who were born this way. It was treating her unfairly and limiting her ability to see her world for what it was worth, and it was a simple and easy fix. She is going to wake up one morning-- not yet, but soon-- and realize that money will not make her happy, and that trying to please that awful father will not make her happy. The first step in that is realizing that he's weak, and there's no better way to do that than being better titled than your parents.
Liam: I don't agree with that line of thinking.
Taliesin: I know. But you are not her. And I'm not saying it's the truth, but it is what I believe is in her heart. I think perhaps that might lift. I will never hurt her. I will never hurt anybody intentionally, especially not you, any more than I already have. In return, I ask: never take your eyes off me. Never trust me. And that is the best friend that you can be.
Liam: I will recommit to that same promise I made.
Taliesin: You can like me. I would love that. And in fact, I hope that I can earn your like.
Liam: I do like you.
Taliesin: I just never want to earn your trust.
Liam: Well, then it's your lucky day.
Taliesin: A gentle title will suit your sister well. I'm leaving.
Matt: Percy walks out. You're left alone in the silence and darkness, looking at the small shrine before you.
Liam: I'm on board. You have me. Whatever you will. I have something I need to take care of, which you know, and I hope you will help me with it. But I do not take your gift lightly. You have me. I close the door again and head back to town.
Matt: Back into town. You guys quietly keep your distance in your walk, find your way back to the castle to your respective rooms, and an evening's rest takes you all.
Marisha: Do I hear Vax go to his room?
Matt: Are you waiting to hear Vax go to his room?
Marisha: I'm waiting to hear Vax go to his room.
Matt: Actually, knowing Vax, you wouldn't hear anything. (laughter)
Liam: 30.
Matt: You wait for a long time, and no sound comes to your ears.
Marisha: I go to sleep.
Matt: All right. And with that, as you guys rest for the night, we're going to take a quick bathroom break. We'll be back here in a few minutes. We had a friend come and deliver a gift to Laura, which you can see presented on the table now. It is a replica that someone, Kiki Day, made this awesome prop replica of Fenthras.
Laura: I wish you guys could see it up close. Obviously, we're going to send a picture on Twitter so you guys can see it, but it lights up different colors!
Matt: Design based on David Rodriguez's concept art for Fenthras.
Laura: It's got Elvish for "protector" and "growth."
Matt: That's so badass.
Laura: Did I say it right? Protector, not protection? Protector is right!
Marisha: Protector and growth.
Laura: Say what?!
Matt: That is awesome.
Laura: Thank you so much!
Matt: Thank you, Kiki!
Laura: You're unbelievable.
Travis: Should we put it down?
Matt: All right. There we go.
Laura: Lean it up against the table.
Matt: So. As you guys come to consciousness the next morning, the storm has come in now--
Laura: By the way, I got terrible sleep. I replayed everything Saundor said in my head a hundred times.
Matt: Make a general wisdom saving throw.
Liam: You're paralyzed from fear.
Laura: I am terrible! Wisdom saving throw? 12.
Matt: 12? Okay. Your evening is hard-pressed. You do manage to get a full night's sleep; you do not suffer any exhaustion. You do manage to get rest, though the nightmares do come in memory of your last encounter at the Feywild, and Saundor's words still swimming around in your head, finding cracks in your sense of self. But you still are stalwart against the choice you made and the friends that were at your back. And as you all come to consciousness, the sound of rain outside of the castle against the exterior stone greets you with the morning. You can smell the fresh rain in the air, and eventually come down to find breakfast prepared, a meal earned.
Taliesin: Not chicken.
Matt: Not chicken, no. This is eggs, fruits. A classic Whitestone breakfast. Chicken is available, but strangely untouched.
Laura: Baked beans. Tell me there's baked beans!
Taliesin: The thick, single-slab bacon.
Liam: Blood pudding.
Marisha: Basically an Irish breakfast.
Matt: There are a few farms here, most are in the surrounding fields south of the city. It's good. It's fresh.
Taliesin: The rain is good. It will mean that they'll have an easier time figuring out the water level while they're digging out beneath the Sun Tree and making sure that it's secure. I love this weather.
Sam: Well? To Marquet or to Draconia? What's it going to be? Should we vote?
Taliesin: An attempt at an object of power or an attempt at friends in power?
Sam: Which is which?
Taliesin: Draconia has friends in power.
Marisha: Speaking of friends, we should probably check up on ours.
Taliesin: (long sigh) That is true. We haven't heard anything, but that is true.
Marisha: We haven't heard anything about him.
Laura: It's terrifying.
Marisha: I know.
Sam: He's probably okay.
Travis: Who are we talking about? (laughter)
Sam: Jarett.
Travis: Oh.
Sam: Our only friend in Draconia.
Taliesin: I personally would assume that Tiberius would either be on his way to one of the two cities, if he were so inclined. And if he had survived. And if he wasn't working in the city itself to keep it functioning.
Marisha: He's hard-headed enough. So all of those things are very true.
Taliesin: And again, we're at war. This is not a battle. We do not win by going to Draconia. We do not win by going to Marquet. We win months from now.
Marisha: You're starting to make less and less sense, Percy.
Taliesin: No! I'm making perfect sense.
Liam: Part of the traditional Whitestone breakfast is--
Laura: A rambling de Rolo.
Taliesin: Breakfast needs things to live. (laughter)
Liam: I think you got that backwards?
Sam: Whitestone continental breakfast. Two eggs, rambling tirade. (laughter)
Laura: Vote, then?
Liam: Vote.
Taliesin: I'm all right with a vote.
Sam: All right, all in favor of going to Marquet to find a Vestige that will maybe give us some more power that we need to kill a dragon, say aye!
Taliesin: Aye.
Liam: Aye.
Sam: All in favor of going to Draconia, where we don't really have a great plan but I think we're going to go try to fuck up a dragon's lair and maybe rescue five people and probably die as lizard people, say aye.
Laura: Aye.
Travis: Aye.
Sam: Aye.
Marisha: Aye.
Laura: I've changed my mind. I want to go to Marquet now.
Sam: Three to three.
Laura: Sorry. Oh shit! I didn't mean to fuck that up. Trinket, what's your vote?
Taliesin: Hold on, let's see if Ashley texts in the next ten minutes.
Matt: Three versus three. Are you going leave it up to the dice, being a game of DND?
Sam: Let's do it.
Marisha: Where's that coin we have?
Taliesin: I have it. I have it right here. Yeah.
Liam: You could also do one to ten and 11 to 20.
Taliesin: One or 20. Ready?
Sam: Wait, we're just doing one flip?
Laura: Yeah!
Sam: No. What?!
Taliesin: Yes. It's flipped!
Laura: What is what?
Marisha: Okay! 20 is Marquet and a one is Draconia.
Sam: What about all the other numbers?
Taliesin: There's only two! It's a coin!
Matt: 20, Marquet. One is Draconia.
Taliesin: And any other number, we stay home.
Laura: What is it?
Taliesin: We're going to Draconia, and we're going to see if we could find Tiberius.
Sam: Oh god!
Laura: Let it be known, I don't think we should go as lizard people anymore.
Travis: Why?
Laura: I think we should go as ravaged Draconians.
Taliesin: I think we should go as Draconians.
Marisha: We can make ourselves look like dragonborn with Seeming?
Taliesin: I think that's a better plan.
Laura: At least that way, they'll trust us.
Taliesin: We don't have to teleport to the middle of nowhere. Well, we do need to get farther away from here. Is there any way to get farther away from where we are right now before we--
Liam: Can we get back to Umbrasyl's lair? I thought that was a good idea.
Sam: We could go there and there and back.
Taliesin: Well, as long as we commit to 24 hours in Draconia no matter what.
Marisha: We can go to Umbrasyl's lair, but it'll take an extra day, because I can only teleport us so many times.
Taliesin: I think 72 hours is a perfectly reasonable amount of time to dedicate to this prospect.
Laura: Pop in, scry, pop into Draconia, look around and next day, pop out. Can we do that?
Sam: Yep.
Liam: If we stop at Umbrasyl's lair, is there anything we can do to run Grog out like a labrador? I'm worried about him not getting enough playtime in.
Sam: In Draconia?
Liam: No, in the mansion. Can you bamf up anything for him in the mansion?
Sam: You're talking about tonight?
Liam: No. We're going to go camp somewhere for a day, right?
Laura: No, we're going to Draconia.
Liam: Right now?
Sam: Go to the black dragon lair, then go to Draconia, then spend a night there.
Liam: I've been travelling with these fuckers for years, and I still don't understand magic.
Marisha: Hold on a second. We have two choices if we're going to Draconia: we can either go to Umbrasyl's lair to scry from there, then teleport there, which means we will be staying the night in Draconia.
Sam: In Draconia?
Taliesin: In Draconia.
Marisha: In Draconia.
Marisha: Or we go to Draconia right now, blindly, and then I'd still have a spell to get us out.
Sam: But they could track us back here.
Laura: How can we go there blindly if you don't know where a tree is?
Marisha: Well, I'd scry.
Sam: And then they'd know where we are.
Marisha: They could theoretically, if we get caught.
Laura: We would only scry on a tree. We wouldn't scry on a dragon.
Taliesin: I have a compromise.
Sam: Actually, can I just throw this out? The only thing that would detect us scrying is currently flying over the ocean. We can scry right now.
Taliesin: Let's scry from the giant's cave outside the city.
Laura: It'll still take a couple of hours to get there, though?
Taliesin: Couple of hours to get there. It's fine. It's nine. It's seven--
Laura: It's 5 00 in the morning!
Taliesin: It's 3am! Why are we awake?
Matt: You're still drunk somehow.
Taliesin: We get far enough outside of the city so at the very least--
Sam: To the giant's lair! To scry!
Matt: North of the city, up into the beginning stages of the Alabaster Sierras, you find the abandoned fortress that is there, embedded on the side of the mountain wall. Keyleth, you are attempting a scrying spell? What are you scrying on?
Marisha: Okay. I have the map of Draconia, let me just see if I can scry--
Sam: You know what you know in Draconia? Do you know what you know in Draconia? You know Tiberius and you know his armor, and you know his objects and personal effects?
Marisha: No, we don't know if he's in Draconia.
Taliesin: We may end up somewhere random.
Sam: That's true. but what do you know what is in Draconia?
Marisha: I know of the things that Tiberius has told us.
Sam: Do you know any of his friends or his family? Have we met his family?
Matt: You have not met his family. You've never been there.
Marisha: I don't need to have a known location, right? I can just scry in a general area, yeah?
Matt: You need generally a creature of some kind.
Sam: What about his little pet?
Laura: Are you not scrying on a tree?
Liam: Lockheed.
Marisha: Lockheed has a higher chance of being dead than Tiberius.
Taliesin: I think that's underestimating, or overestimating-- I don't know.
Liam: It's a coin flip.
Taliesin: It's a coin flip, really. He's small.
Marisha: Well, this could answer our question. If I can't find anybody, then we might be going to Marquet.
Sam: That's true.
Taliesin: Go for it, then. See what happens.
Marisha: I guess it's Tiberius, then? He's all I got. It's got to be someone that I know? It can't be something I've heard about?
Matt: It can be something you've heard about. A person or a creature.
Taliesin: A person or a creature, not a place?
Matt: Not necessarily, no.
Taliesin: Can it be a magic object?
Matt: It would be a creature of some kind.
Travis: We know about Tiberius. We know about Kruvanis Stormwind.
Sam: We know of Lockheed.
Liam: The Mending Wheel. A creature only? Oh shit. Fucking magic!
Laura: That's what he just said!
Marisha: Are we gambling on Tiberius being there?
Sam: You're going to gamble on Tiberius?
Marisha: I am gambling on whoever we scry to, because they could all be dead.
Sam: How many times can you scry?
Marisha: Theoretically, four times.
Laura: I've also got a Scrying Stone.
Taliesin: Start with the stone.
Marisha: That's right, you've got that goddamn thing. Give me the stone.
Laura: Here.
Marisha: Thank you!
Taliesin: I think we should call it rock. The Rock.
Marisha: It doesn't go away, right?
Laura: No. it's a Scrying Eye. You can use it once a day.
Marisha: Yeah. Let's do this!
Sam: Start with Tiberius.
Taliesin: Start with Tiberius. We'll work our way down.
Marisha: Start with Tiberius.
Laura: I was going to bring it out!
Taliesin: No, you did wonderfully.
Laura: It was just sitting there.
Matt: You take the object. You close your eyes, focusing on the memory and the life essence of Tiberius Stormwind. You project your thoughts into the ether. The nature energies carry you into the darkness, and there is no response.
Sam: No response?
Matt: No response. The scrying spell finds no target.
Taliesin: That can mean a lot of things.
Liam: Yes, does that stretch across the planes?
Sam: Does it?
Matt: Generally, it's on the same plane of existence.
Sam: Okay. What about his father?
Taliesin: Or Lockheed?
Sam: Well, Lockheed would be with--
Taliesin: Not necessarily. How many times have we found stray cats?
Laura: It's true. Maybe scry on Lockheed.
Marisha: Can I try it? Will it expend another spell?
Matt: This one will expend a spell.
Marisha: It lasts for ten minutes? Oh, per spell.
Sam: So you're burning your own spell slot.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm burning my own spells.
Laura: At least you got one for free.
Sam: Thanks, Vex.
Marisha: It makes me very nervous.
Sam: We should do his dad.
Taliesin: That would be who I would kill if I were taking over the city.
Sam: You just want to kill everybody.
Taliesin: I do.
Marisha: I'm going to try Lockheed. His dad could be in a place where he's being watched.
Matt: Okay. So this time, you give the object back to Vex and you sit down and create the ritual space before you. You sit down in the center of the stone floor of the fortress and you close your eyes. This time, you send out your consciousness once more. The druidic energies carry you an extended distance in but a few moments, and your vision clicks in and you see, perched against a snow-covered rock in the inside of a ravine, a shivering, small, green dragonling. Alone, and is partially asleep against the stone. You can see just past over this large, gaping ravine that is the center of this portion of Wildemount, you can see scattered rubble covered in ice and snow and small distant things you can't quite make out with your vision here occasionally moving through it.
Sam: Can you see any trees?
Marisha: Do I find any trees?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: 19. There's no visible trees in the ravine. Anything that would be living down there has been-- from your vision here-- obscured by rock, rubble, ruined floating island, and snowfall. You do see growing out of the side of the rock, not far from where Lockheed is perched is one leafless, small branch of a tree that extends out. And as you glance up, there is a very thick tree that is currently jutting out the side of the mountain.
Marisha: Does it appear to be natural?
Matt: It does.
Marisha: And large enough to fit Grog?
Matt: Maybe.
Laura: Jutting out the side of--
Matt: Yeah. It's not sitting on ground, but is currently over the ravine.
Marisha: Yeah, one of those. Any other trees? Is this the biggest or closest one?
Matt: That's all you can make out from this perspective.
Marisha: How big is the ravine? How deep is it?
Matt: From where you can tell right now, from the perspective you can see, looking at Lockheed, it's probably a good 50-foot fall before you hit a scattering of broken rock, and eventually it comes into a grade to the bottom of the ravine.
Travis: Not great.
Marisha: Not a good option.
Matt: You guys have fallen 50 feet and been fine.
Sam: Someone has Feather Fall, right? No?
Marisha: Did it look like a natural cavern or a man-made cavern that Lockheed was in?
Matt: From what you can tell, it looks natural.
Marisha: Like he found a little cave and is hiding?
Matt: It's less of a cave and more he's perched on this little alcove, this little outcropping of rock on the side of the ravine wall.
Marisha: Oh, he's on the side of the ravine.
Matt: On the side of the ravine.
Laura: Okay, I have an idea. What if we tie a rope on something on this side and we all go out of the rope really fast and drop down?
Taliesin: Grog first.
Sam: Should you scry one more time, for the dad? Because best-case scenario, we're in a weird, snowy ravine with no civilization around.
Taliesin: We don't want to be around any civilization. And also, that's one more spell gone.
Matt: You did see, distant, blurred from your perspective, since the focus of the scry was on Lockheed, you did see movement and very small distant objects within the snow at the base of the ravine.
Laura: They could potentially see us as soon as we come out of the tree.
Sam: Yeah, we'll be far away.
Marisha: They could be citizens, they could be creatures? I just saw movement of figures, I didn't see any details?
Sam: Seems like a good plan.
Laura: This is risky.
Marisha: This is ridiculous.
Taliesin: It's true. There's only risk at this point. Is this the risk we make or is this not the risk we make. Grog?
Travis: Oh, are we asking for Grog's opinion now?
Taliesin: Only so that we can ignore it.
Laura: You're the one that was most adamant about us going there.
Taliesin: With the new data, how do you feel?
Travis: I think we should take the hint and not go.
Sam: But you said--
Travis: Yeah, but I was picturing meandering out of a nice, beautiful tree in a forest.
Sam: It's a little jolt. It's a little fall. It's fine.
Liam: That's it. He created this idea and he's backing out.
Sam: You told us your famous phrase  all risk! That's what this is.
Travis: I do hate to have my own words used against me.
Sam: All risk. That's what this is! We are doing all risk!
Travis: I'm down to party. I'm just saying it was a little different in my head.
Sam: I've never known you to be a coward, Grog.
Taliesin: No! Why would you do that?!
Laura: Why, Scanlan?!
Travis: I'll go first. You hold my hand, and I'll go first.
Liam: He can play the fiddle very well.
Travis: I'll go. Let's do it. I'm ready.
Laura: Okay, before we go through, I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on us so we can stealth through the tree. Like that's going to work.
Taliesin: No, that's a good idea.
Laura: I'm going to look for something very solid. Are there trees around us that we can go through right now?
Matt: A short walk, you could get down to the base of the forest.
Laura: All right. I'm going to tie the rope off onto a very sturdy thing next to a tree that we're going to go through.
Taliesin: We're going to rappel.
Laura: Yes.
Travis: Does the portal only close after a couple seconds?
Taliesin: Yes. Six seconds. We're all going to hold on to the rope and we all go.
Matt: Six seconds for all of you to--
Laura: Jump out!
Marisha: Bungee-jumping out of a tree!
Liam: We are fucking idiots!
Marisha: This is the stupidest--
Taliesin: This is a terrible plan. I want to go on record for saying I was against this plan--
Sam: We can just leave really quick! She's got another teleport, yeah. We're going to climb up to the tree--
Marisha: I didn't see Draconia. I saw the ravine, and it was snowy, so we can assume it's nearby. But I didn't see Draconia, did I?
Matt: You've never seen Draconia before.
Marisha: But did I see a city in my scry?
Matt: You saw no city.
Laura: You saw rubble.
Marisha: Once again, Lockheed could have flown miles away.
Taliesin: He could have.
Sam: At the worst, this is a quick recon mission. We jump back in the tree, we come back. 15 minutes.
Laura: But there's things that were crawling around amongst the dead.
Sam: They were far off in the distance!
Taliesin: They weren't that far off. But to be fair, this is what a plan is, is everything going wrong. So I'm all right with doing this, if we're doing this.
Travis: All right, sweet. I am, too.
Marisha: All right, fuck it! Let's do it.
Matt: All right. So you've affixed the rope at the base of the strongest tree you can find.
Marisha: Are we going to tie ourselves to each other again, like before?
Laura: No! Because that's dumb. We're going to break our backs. I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on everyone right now because why the fuck not?
Sam: You got a fucking broom. I'm hopping on the broom.
Laura: Oh yeah, I'm on the broom. And he's on the broom.
Taliesin: Vex, we're going to have the greatest I-told-you-so if we survive this.
Matt: All right. We have Vex and Scanlan on the broom.
Travis: Should you make me some something teensy?
Marisha: Oh, this is such a stupid idea...
Taliesin: No, we're going to need every spell we need in there. No, you're the weight that's going to hold the rope down, you're going first.
Matt: Any of your spell prep?
Liam: I'm going to pop my wings out and hook my arms under Kiki's armpits.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm holding on the rope, because I'm an idiot.
Matt: All right. Grog and Percy holding onto the rope.
Marisha: This is stupid. This is so stupid!
Taliesin: I hate you all.
Marisha: We've done so many fucking stupid things. But this is really stupid.
Matt: Vex casts Pass Without a Trace. The shadows reach around and embrace your forms. You become more obscured the further the light is from your body. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: I cast Transport Via Plants on that big, fatty tree!
Matt: Keyleth touches the edge of the tree, the rope which is affixed to above. The trunk (portal opens).
Marisha: Everyone ready?
Taliesin: Go!
Marisha: Go!
Laura: I fly through stealthily.
Matt: You fly through stealthily.
Laura: I'm trying to get down to the ground quickly and hide behind something.
Matt: Right. I would like all of you guys to make stealth checks at disadvantage.
Travis: Yes! That's awesome.
Marisha: Oh, that's not too bad.
Travis: 17!
Sam: Pass Without a Trace?
Travis: Oh. 27.
Taliesin: 20.
Sam: 20.
Marisha: 22.
Liam: 35.
Laura: 33.
Travis: 27.
Matt: All right. As Vex and Scanlan scoot first through the opening, you coast down, and there is a cluster of rocks, but there's a light snowdust, and you find a snowbank that you guys coast down to quickly. You can decide to float above the snowbank. What do you want to do?
Laura: We get down on the ground and go under.
Matt: Okay, so you disappear under the snowbank. It is freezing cold, the wet immediately falling snow against your form begins to seep in. But you are below eye-level. Vax and Keyleth? You guys just dart through, you holding her.
Liam: Fly through, and then once I see them hit the ground, I'm going to dive-bomb us, and I'm going to wrap us in a little wing bubble and roll into the snow.
Matt: All right. As you guys come falling out the side of the tree, you see nearby as a small, green tiny dragon gets startled and flies off. You guys go coasting, the wings expand for a second. It picks up and as you hit, whipping past the 15 feet of jagged rocks that were gathered at the base of the ravine, you scoot over it, the wings fold in around you, and you guys tumble into the snow. Make an acrobatics check with disadvantage because you're grabbing onto her and are covered in wings.
Laura: And you're covered in wings.
Liam: I rolled a 15 and a 20. That would be a 30.
Matt: You don't feel the pain. And the wings do cause a significant barrier of impact, as well as the snow. As soon as you land, you go into a classic shoulder roll and use the inertia to not arise above the water. You both essentially coast sideways, stopping within the snowbank. From an overhead perspective, you can see a large swath has been carved through. But from visual eye range, at equal level, you guys still appear to be hidden within the snow. The two of you jump through and start rappelling down, Grog at the bottom end. Bringing the rope, bringing the rope down, bringing the rope down. It slams shuts, the rope cuts at the other end as the portal closes. Percy, you just make it out as the rope gives way. It is now Grog and Percy plummeting toward the ground.
Marisha: I cast a Grasping Vine to grab Grog.
Matt: You don't have the opportunity, because this all happens in a period of six seconds and you guys just landed and coasted in the snow.
Travis: Am I right under Percy?
Matt: He's about five feet ahead of you, yeah.
Travis: (laughs)
Taliesin: I'm going to let that happen.
Matt: You're cushioning his fall?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All right. Make an acrobatics check, just for the hell of it.
Liam: I love this game.
Travis: 13.
Matt: 13. As soon as you look over your shoulder and see the ground coming, you try and swing your legs underneath to catch you, to slide across. And you begin to. Your feet catch the rock and you feel the muscles tense. Your back gets jammed a little bit. And you catch Percy in your arms, but the momentum of Percy hitting you sends you back over, and you both tumble into the snow. You do prevent Percy from taking any damage, but you do suffer five points of fall damage.
Liam: Stubbed your toe, big guy?
Travis: I got a booby.
Sam: Is Lockheed within range still? Can we see him?
Matt: You guys make a perception check.
Marisha: Can I look, too?
Matt: You're just now getting up out of the ball of wings.
Laura: 25.
Sam: Six.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25. You do see Lockheed is about 50, 60 feet up on the rock right now.
Sam: Where's Lockheed?
Laura: Can I whisper in Draconic? Lockheed! And whatever the word is for "Come to me."
Matt: Seems too far to really be within earshot of a whisper.
Sam: I see her doing this. I point to him, and I cast Message, and I say: Lockheed! We're down here! Come down! It's us, your friends!
Matt: Lockheed (wingbeats) and then glides against the rock. And glides lower to the rock. Glides lower to the rock, and flies up-- still keeping a cautious distance from you above the snow.
Liam: Tibs. We're friends with Tibs. Tiberius. You remember us?
Matt: You can see Lockheed a little closer now. You remember him being fairly sick when he was initially purchased. While the illness has passed, he looks greatly malnourished and thin--
Laura: I pull out some of my food that I give to Trinket and try to feed it...
Matt: As soon as you pull out the food, Lockheed's demeanor changes immediately. Darts up and almost latches onto your hand and causes you to jump--
Laura: I cast Speak With Animals. Is he an animal?
Matt: Nope.
Sam: I have Speak With Small Beasts...
Matt: Not a beast.
Sam: Fuck you! (laughter)
Liam: He's a little small monster.
Laura: I would have known, as a dragon expert, that he's not a fucking animal, then. Whatever.
Sam: What is a monster?
Taliesin: Hit your head in the fall.
Laura: I didn't fall, I flew.
Travis: Pike's a small monster.
Sam: Just grab him and put him in the bag of holding!
Matt: At this point now, the temperature's really set into you. You've heard stories. You're familiar with the sound. The words you've heard of Wildemount, being largely a colder continent, especially to the north where the actual civilizations of man exist. Draconia's a little further to the south, but also based on the information you have, this being taken recently as the den of Vorugal, there is an almost perpetual small snowstorm that is existing about this ravine, and the wind itself is beginning to cut through. Thankfully, you're mostly armored up. For the time being, you're fine. But you can see where this is a difficult weather pattern to perpetually live in. Lockheed finishes eating vigorously and seems to be waiting across your hand.
Laura: Perch him on my shoulder and get out some more of the little boar meat we have in the bag of colding and feeding him.
Matt: He eats some, happily.
Laura: Can I speak Draconic to him, see if he understands any of that?
Matt: What do you say?
Liam: Tiberius was teaching him Draconic.
Laura: Yeah, I know. I say "Where is Tiberius?" in Draconic.
Liam: Where is home?
Laura: Where is home?
Matt: (croaking)
Liam: Unless Tibs got further along with him, it was one word--
Sam: He was teaching him "sit" and "play dead" and stuff.
Liam: One word at a time.
Laura: All right. Stay.
Matt: And stays and digs in the talons at the top of your leather armor shoulder, folds thed wings in and just waits there, huddled up against your shoulder for warmth.
Taliesin: I'm going to look around and see if there's a direction in which it seems there's civilization or any signs of battle or otherwise.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16. You bring your head above the snowline and you can see surrounding you-- and you are in the center of this giant ravine that opens up to the sky. Not quite Grand Canyon size, but it's about half the width. It's a wide gulf. And you guys are on one side of where the ravine slowly begins to coalesce, and there's various steps in which the ravine casts down. You were already towards the bottom when you landed. This could have been a lot worse were it higher up. Looking up, you see, just from this vantage point, dozens of large stacks of broken rock and stone. You see pillars that are jutting out of portions of this. You see partially and mostly collapsed buildings that themselves have been destroyed from serious impact. You recall, during the initial attack of the Conclave, that one of the things that was seen through a vision was the fall of Draconia, which were islands of stone that were held aloft through arcane means within this ravine. What you now look upon are all the fallen remains of each of these arcane islands now plummeted, crushed, and fell into the ravine and have been sundered and destroyed. You do see figures moving quickly and crawling over elements of it, and you see a cluster of them fighting over something and then disperse.
Liam: How far off?
Matt: They're probably a good 300 feet off.
Laura: Could we tell what kind of creatures they are?
Matt: They appear to be humanoid, somewhat reptilian.
Sam: Should I make us lizard people?
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to see if I can see the origin, the epicenter of the storm? Like the eye of the storm? Where it's coming from?
Taliesin: Clever.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16. Best that you can view, the storm seems to be slowly spiraling, and a large heavy portion of the snowfall and sleet is hitting about a mile or so towards the right side of the ravine that you guys are looking at. From the wall you're at, you have the right and the left sides of this current ravine structure, seems to be that direction, about a mile.
Marisha: I think the dragon's lair is that way.
Sam: Can you look around for more trees that aren't so hard to get to in case we need to make a fast getaway?
Taliesin: We could just keep our eyes open.
Sam: All right.
Marisha: You said it was a mile. Can we traverse through the bottom of the ravine to get there in that direction?
Sam: Or is it all water?
Matt: No, you can.
Travis: We're going to crack out the good old Dust of Tracelessness since there's knee-high snow?
Taliesin: Let's not be fleshy.
Sam: You want me to make us Draconians or lizard people?
Taliesin: If we're lizard people, Draconians will not trust us.
Liam: Yeah. We can at least pretend to cower and be afraid of lizard men if we see them.
Sam: I don't think Grog can cower.
Travis: What is the definition of this word?
Sam: Be a wussy.
Taliesin: Shaky dance. (laughter)
Liam: You know when you bang your balls on a rock or something? It's like that, you go, (groans).
Taliesin: Is there anything you're not good at? Don't think that hard. Never mind.
Sam: Draconians?
Taliesin: Draconians.
Sam: I will cast Seeming on the party and make us all Draconians.
Matt: What kind of Draconians? There are many types of colors, there are those with and without tails--
Sam: Wasn't Tiberius a strange one?
Laura: Don't do red!
Sam: He was a strange one, right?
Marisha: He was the odd man out.
Liam: They didn't take kindly to him.
Sam: Metallic, yeah?
Liam: Bronze?
Sam: Like gray, silver?
Laura: Maybe it's good to make us silvers and whiteish!
Sam: Bronze, silver, and gold then, I guess.
Liam: That's chromatic. Metallic! Bronze, silver, gold.
Sam: Yeah, we'll do the Olympics.
Matt: With or without tail? Because you've met both.
Taliesin: They won't actually be tails. That might actually get us in trouble.
Sam: Which one was Tiberius?
Matt: Tiberius had a tail.
Sam: Do most of them have a tail?
Laura: Gern didn't have a tail and he was less than-- I don't think Draconians will like us without a tail.
Sam: We all have tails. Mine's a little longer than the rest. (laughter)
Matt: Keeping your normal attire, just on the top of the Draconian form?
Sam: No! What do Draconians wear?
Laura: Rags! Put us in rags, like we've been living in rubble.
Sam: Raw silk and tattered clothes, just rags, terrible gray things.
Laura: Make us look like we've been beat up.
Sam: Sure. We all have a single bruise. (laughter)
Sam: In a different place on our face. Everyone's got one face bruise in a different place.
Matt: All of your forms shift into that of various metallic dragonborn, with tails, adorned in rags, dirty. What do you do?
Laura: Oh shit, who all speaks Draconic here?
Sam: You speak Draconic! (laughter)
Sam: We're all mutes. We're lepers and mutes, and you are our doctor?
Liam: Everybody else does fearful anime reacts the whole time. (gasping)
Travis: (speaking in Japanese)
Laura: Don't actually speak Japanese, Grog.
Taliesin: We're moving towards the epicenter.
Matt: You guys step up out of the snow and begin walking?
Marisha: Stealthily.
Laura: Okay, I'm stealthily leading us. That direction, towards where the lair is?
Travis: Keeping an eye out for trees.
Laura: And for any of the lizard creatures coming towards us.
Matt: Right now, no.
Laura: Then let's quietly make our way that direction.
Liam: Remember, like you've been hit in the balls.
Travis: Oh.
Matt: You guys cluster up and begin stepping above the snow, which is still about waist, knee-high for some of you. Making your way to the right of your current location, towards the center of the storm that Keyleth discovered. As you guys begin to walk, a nearby pile of rock and rubble, there was that one cluster of four, five of these moving lizard-like entities. Suddenly, one of them looks at your group, looks back at the rest, and they all stand up and look over in your direction.
Sam: You're our leader, friend. Do we continue?
Matt: They're just watching you. They're not doing anything.
Laura: Let's injuredly keep walking.
Matt: They go back to rummaging through. You guys continue to walk. The ravine curves to the right, or at least begins to open up further to the right and you're met with the next large structure of rubble. What you saw was the edge of an extremely large, once-floating island, now crushed and sundered across the ground. There are sheets of ice across parts of it. You can see the better part of a large palace or library that is now caved in partially. You can see frozen books scattered across portions of the stone and rock on the ground before you. You can see a series of huts have been constructed on top of this rubble, and there are some small fires lit, little plumes of smoke and probably two dozen dragonborn figures that are currently combing through the rubble.
Laura: Do we see any books that seem interesting as we're walking through them?
Matt: They're underneath ice. You can try and chisel some out, if you like.
Liam: Don't have time!
Matt: A lot of it's covered in snow. There's some bits you can peek through and see sheets of ice and frozen books--
Travis: Are there any frozen bodies?
Matt: As you begin to have a closer book as you walk by, there are many frozen bodies. You see many people, all dragonborn, some atop the rubble, some partially crushed, some partially locked in ice, some destroyed by some sort of an acidic substance. Some of them are covered in boils, and their face is locked in some sort of horrible coughing fit. This was a very terrifying battle scene that has transpired here.
Laura: That means Raishan was here.
Marisha: That means Thordak was here.
Liam: Umbrasyl was here. Acid.
Marisha: They attacked the cities as a horde.
Matt: There are no signs of anyone burned.
Marisha: I thought you said ash.
Laura: The people that are scouring through the rubble, are those dragonborn or just the lizard people?
Matt: Best that you can tell right now, it appears to be dragonborn.
Laura: Can we look at their behavior and see what it looks like they're doing?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Taliesin: I would like to join that insight check.
Sam: I would not like to.
Taliesin: Nine.
Liam: Nine.
Sam: I will join that insight check.
Marisha: I'll join in, too.
Matt: You've already said no.
Laura: 13. This isn't having to do with dragons? So it's 13.
Marisha: I don't do insight checks too often, I'm sorry. 22.
Matt: Did you roll or not?
Travis: Oh, I rolled a ten.
Matt: Best you can tell, they're surviving. They're scouring through the ruins, trying to find anything of worth. Some of it's finding wood and throwing it onto these little flame pyres that are scattered around the ruins. You begin to look and see that actually the sides of the ravine, there are hundreds of small caverns are carved into the rock. Not quite like a dense honeycomb style, but it looks like there is an entire cave city that lives within this ravine.
Liam: And they're not frozen over?
Matt: Some of them are covered in snow.
Liam: But snow, not blasted with ice?
Taliesin: They look like they're in use?
Matt: Some of these dragonborn, they're coming out of their huts. Some of them are still looking up at the sky nervously. They look over and see you guys approaching and a voice calls out, "Who goes there?"
Laura: Friends. Friends of Stormwinds.
Matt: "Friends of Stormwind, you say? We have friends of Stormwind. Approach."
Laura: I walk up injuredly.
Liam: I'm hobbling up behind.
Taliesin: I'm cowering.
Matt: You guys cower and approach. Keyleth, Vax, and Vex, you notice as you approach that a number of the people that have all stopped and are paying attention are beginning to move around and encircle you.
Laura: Pardon my friends, their tongues have been cut out by our captors. I'm all that's left.
Matt: As you walk forward you can see the figure that's talking to you, a very tall, burly, bronze-scaled dragonborn, long horns that protrude down the back in a slow curvature. No tail. In fact, you now notice that every single one of the dragonborn you've noticed here have no tail.
Sam: We had a 50-50 chance!
Matt: "Friends of Stormwind. That would make you Sky-walkers. I see your tails. You survive the onslaught and step into the den of those you persecuted. Well, what are your last words?"
Sam: This was a great plan.
Liam: Drop it.
Sam: I don't know what's going on.
Marisha: Is this all being said in Draconic?
Sam: It's Draconian! I don't know what's happening.
Laura: You know what, I don't know what to tell you. Everyone with a tail's an asshole. We got what was coming to us.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Taliesin: Wow!
Laura: 19?
Matt: He turns his head to the side a bit. (spits) "What skills do you have?"
Laura: I can shoot.
Matt: "Is that all?"
Laura: He makes boots.
Matt: "That's a skill."
Laura: She's really good at stonecraft.
Matt: All the other dragonborn that come behind you are now holding spears, some of them rudimentary-looking pikes that are just held up and pointed in your direction. You guys are now enclosed by about two dozen dragonborn. "Here are your choices: You die here like the scum you are--"
Laura: Choice B.
Matt: "Then slavery it is." (laughter)
Matt: "You will join the rest of your ilk, and you will seek food for us. You will know what it's like to be bent beneath the knee of those who do not deserve it. Put them in chains!"
Laura: Oh, they're going to know, as soon as we're in chains.
Liam: Well, we're going to have a fight here.
Laura: Oh, shall we drop Seeming? Perhaps we should drop Seeming?
Sam: What? Is it going well?
Laura: Wait.
Matt: They approach, and stop for a second. A few of the folks who came over and went to grab for chains have stopped and are holding them in their hand.
Laura: I have to tell you something. We're not actually Draconian.
Matt: He leans in and gives you this very keen look now, and takes a few steps closer. He's about five feet from you now. "From where I stand, you look pretty fucking Draconian to me."
Laura: Well, we have some really good magic users with us. Look, forgive us for making tails. We don't know anything about your culture. We're idiots! We came here because we know you're under attack, and we're trying to help.
Matt: "And you just wander into the caves of the Ravenites, dressed in the face of those that broke our backs?"
Laura: Yep, because we're stupid!
Matt: Make a persuasion check with disadvantage.
Sam: Disadvantage. Not good.
Laura: 14?
Matt: 14? "Bring the chains. You have ten seconds to prove--"
Laura: Drop Seeming, just drop it.
Sam: Really? It's one of my better spells.
Laura: I know, I'm sorry!
Sam: All right, poof. We're back to normal.
Matt: All of your images fade. Everyone takes a step back. The spears come up even further, and there's a little pause.
Marisha: My tail's gone! Bummer.
Laura: No, believe me, you don't want the tail.
Marisha: But I enjoyed it.
Liam: Does this make things better or worse for us?
Laura: I repeat him.
Matt: Yeah, the reactions you get from them, you gather most of these don't speak Common and none of them seem to understand what you're saying.
Laura: Here's the thing. You're being attacked by a white dragon.
Matt: "The white dragon came, and he tore down the Sky-walkers."
Laura: So you're happy with it?
Matt: "Well, it's put us in a better position."
Laura: Right. But now that the Sky-walkers have already been torn down, do you want to keep the dragon in charge?
Matt: "We owe the dragon for the freedom that he gave us."
Laura: So you serve one.
Matt: "For the time."
Laura: And he doesn't punish you at all? He's a good master?
Matt: "Those who deserve punishment get it. But we hunt with it. It brings us power. It promises expansion of the Ravenites, and we will no longer live under the boot of those in this countryside and this continent."
Liam: How's it going?
Laura: Really bad.
Matt: "We have children to feed. We have families of our own."
Laura: How can we help?
Matt: "How can you help?"
Laura: That's what we're here for.
Matt: "Bring us food, bring us warmth, chop some firewood. Bring some trees. Work."
Laura: Gladly. But not in chains. We do this freely.
Matt: "Give us your weapons, and you can walk freely."
Sam: Let's kill them all.
Laura: I'm sorry, that's not happening.
Matt: "Then leave."
Laura: That we will.
Matt: "What is your business here, she who wanders in the faces of others?"
Marisha: That's a cool title.
Laura: Yeah, add that to the list. Our entire landscape is under attack. Now, Vorugal has helped you, but they've made many others suffer, not just Draconians. Entire cities brought down, for nothing. We're here to right the wrong and help in any way we can.
Matt: "You should talk to Tooma."
Laura: Tooma.
Marisha: Tooma. It is not a tumor.
Laura: We knew that was going to happen.
Liam: Took about 1.5 seconds to fuck with Matt's name.
Taliesin: I think he assumed.
Matt: All you're doing is putting fuel on the fire. (groaning)
Sam: Is it Tooma?
Matt: Tooma. T-O-O-M-A.
Liam: That's totally different.
Laura: Who is Tooma?
Matt: "Tooma is our chieftain. I'm not to make this decision. Come. No chains, for now." They all stay with their spears still out in front, but they nudge you forward.
Laura: I explain everything that's happening in Common as we walk. Is everyone still cool with this? We're going to the chieftain.
Sam: Just tell us when it's time to kill everybody.
Liam: We improvise. It's what we do.
Taliesin: I think this is actually going far better than I had hoped.
Sam: Just remember Vex, ticking time bomb here. We've got to get in, get out. We've got one day here.
Travis: Are there any trees that we can see as we're walking?
Laura: They actually said they wanted us to chop firewood, so if we can get sent on that mission, we're set.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Hey, 19!
Laura: Are we in the mountains? No. Are we?
Liam: 29.
Matt: You're in a ravine. Perception check was just for Grog, as he's the only one that asked to look for trees. But you rolled a 19?
Travis: I did!
Matt: Looking around, occasionally poking out of the rubble, you'll see a tree. Most of them seem to have not fared so well with the cold weather and have been snapped or broken in the process of the falling rubble. You do make out, towards the edge on the other side of the ravine, beyond this giant one, you can see this one island, one larger island of the cluster that made up Draconia, fell in the center here and is broken apart. On the far end, you can see there's a small cluster of trees, the hint of green still to them, some of them varying thickness.
Marisha: I could work with that.
Travis: Might be a long way, though.
Liam: We've been here, what, ten minutes?
Matt: I'd say about 20.
Sam: So we're going to go see Tooma, or we're going to chop down some fucking trees?
Laura: We have to go. They're walking us to the chieftain. Can't just walk away now.
Matt: You guys are prodded along, over the rubble, and as you come around you can start to see, where the outside of the island is broken rock, the center of it is broken structures. Buildings, homes, giant great marble halls, everything is mostly fallen in. You still see some structures standing, but at odd angles. There are sections of buildings that still show the outer outline of what once stood, but it is all a complete ruin. You do see every now and then a few large spikes of ice that are jutting out of portions, and you see bodies that are jabbed onto the spikes and left to freeze.
Laura: Do they have tails?
Matt: They do. You move over the bulk of this giant pile of rubble and begin to descend the other side, and you can see now there is an active village here that is half-frozen entirely. Half of it seems to be abandoned; the other half of it is completely coated in solid ice. The crowd leads you past that abandoned village to a series of tunnels against the wall, maybe 300 or 400 feet past that cluster of trees that you saw. Leads you into this tunnel, and on the inside, there are small glow stones set in portions of the stone. Not naturally forming, but essentially small natural bits of torchlight just pressed into the stonework to give some sort of a light source. You're led in for about five or so minutes. and you see other offshoot tunnels. It's like a giant anthill weaved throughout this, and you can see rudimentary furniture made of wood and stone, with limestone rock, whatever's available within the actual ravine here.
Marisha: Can I get a sense on when this was carved? If this was carved recently or if this has been here a while?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Marisha: Ooh, 27.
Matt: Best you can tell from looking at the rock and knowing the amount of erosion versus the curvature of it, these tunnels have been here for a very long time. This portion opens up and you can see now there is a much more refined, village-type structure inside, maybe 30-plus small homes carved from rock and stone. Built much better than the makeshift huts that you saw outside. You also see a giant pile of broken chains to the left side of the entryway. Many of them are manacles and neck vices that are just thrown and discarded in this large pile.
Marisha: Tiberius never mentioned this side of Draconia.
Matt: As you are brought into the center of this larger chamber you see two dozen Draconians that are out and about just currently gathering materials, talking and walking, and stop and see as you enter and just watch as you pass by. Colors range from metallic to chromatic, all spectrum; it's a mish-mash of all walks and sizes.
Liam: And the chromatic-- the red, the blue, the green-- are we seeing tails on them?
Matt: Nope.
Marisha: No tails.
Laura: Nobody has tails down here.
Sam: I could make us all Draconian again without tails.
Laura: That would probably work at this point, right?
Matt: You're led past a couple of these stone structures and there is a central, open circular plot between a lot of these. There's a fountain that seems to spring a very clean source of water within the center of this chamber. Beyond that, there is a larger temple-like square structure that has a slight trapezoidal appearance to it. The entranceway is an open arch, and you can see a large fire burning on the inside of it. You are led around the fountain and led to the inside. There, sitting on a large stone seat made of haphazard bits of rock and stone, it looks relatively uncomfortable, a large stone throne, there is a female dragonborn. She wears long, drab, gray robes, tattered at the edges, a hood loosely pulled back and a large scarf or wrap around her neck and shoulders. She just sits there with her hands over the side, draped, and as you walk in and your eyes adjust you can see that she looks very old. As you're brought in, the rest of your crew still pushes you in with the spears. She leans forward. "Are these prisoners of ours?" The dragonborn who brought you in goes, "They are, for the time being. They say they come here because the Frigid Doom and other dragons who came are killing their people, as well. They have come to fight the dragon, or so they claim. They walked in under guise of our enemy. It is your wisdom to make these choices." And the larger dragonborn bows his head and steps away, the spears pull back and they step, blocking the exits that you walked through; the entire archway now is shoulder to shoulder dragonborn with spears at the ready.
Laura: Tooma. We apologize for coming in the guise of your enemies. Unfortunately, we don't know much about your culture, and no one ever informed us of what you have suffered, and we apologize.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: 23?
Matt: You're saying this in Draconic, I assume? She leans in a bit, and the firelight crackles under her chin, and you can see the teeth on one side pull out beyond the lip, and it gives her this lopsided look. The tongue wipes across the front, and she leans in toward you. "You come here to fight the Frigid Doom, you say?"
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "I would be lying if I said it did not bring a chance for freedom to all of us Ravenites."
Laura: Much deserved.
Matt: "But as time progresses, I fear we shake one bond to step into another. The dragon presented itself as our savior, but has since required an ever-growing fealty."
Laura: They do that.
Matt: "Without the Draconians, without the Sky-walkers, and without the Doom, we would be free. Rebuild our culture."
Laura: I want nothing more for you than that. Let us help you.
Matt: Now, the rest of you hear this  "Do your friends speak Common?"
Taliesin: Oh, that's lovely.
Marisha: Hi!
Sam: Hi, yes.
Laura: Much relieved. Yes, they do.
Sam: Grog doesn't, but we do.
Travis: (moans) (laughter)
Matt: "If we are to let you go, do you promise to slay this creature?"
Laura: We will do everything in our power to watch it die.
Liam: It is our only purpose.
Matt: "It has been gone for days."
Laura: It should be back very soon.
Matt: "Took most of its army with it."
Sam: Grog was right! He's always right!
Taliesin: That was our hope, that we would be able to come here when it was at its weakest and get a sense of it.
Sam: Do you know where its lair is?
Matt: "I do."
Sam: Is it far?
Matt: "It is not far, but one hour walk."
Laura: Can I roll an insight check on her?
Matt: You may.
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19?
Sam: (gasps) Oh boy.
Taliesin: Do you know what I like as much as whispers? Loot Crate.
Sam: What? Taliesin. You've got to do better than that. Try something like this: You know, Matt's an asshole, but you know who's not? The good people at Loot Crate.
Taliesin: Loot Crate doesn't decide to just tell one person about what's going on. They let everyone know, not just Vex.
Sam: Hey, you never told us what he whispered to you before.
Matt: No, he didn't.
Liam: We're good.
Sam: Oh boy.
Liam: I'm a vampire. Just deal with it.
Matt: "If you come here to kill this dragon, I assume you have the means and a plan."
Sam: We definitely have plans.
Marisha: Totally have a plan.
Matt: "Then let us set an ambush."
Sam: Ambush? Sorry?
Marisha: Come again?
Laura: Well, we tried to do that one other time. While it did pay off, and its brother is dead, a lot of people died in the process. A lot. Very large, strong people.
Matt: "So what do you insist? We not have an ambush, we just wait for it to land and attack head-on?"
Sam: We were going to use this opportunity to find our way into its lair and find its weaknesses, and plan.
Marisha: Sabotage, from the inside.
Taliesin: There's more than one dragon, and they are supporting each other.
Marisha: We kill this one, it'll set off a chain reaction that we might not be able to recover from if we're not fully prepared.
Taliesin: We want to make the means to make sure that when the time comes, we can destroy them all in one fell swoop.
Laura: The risk here is that by destroying Vorugal--
Sam: The Frigid Doom.
Laura: We'll bring the wrath of the others upon you.
Taliesin: He is not the strongest.
Laura: Thordak is much larger, and I don't think he's been here.
Matt: "You speak with accents I do not understand. Where do you come from?"
Taliesin: Everywhere.
Marisha: We're a motley crew.
Laura: Lots of different places.
Travis: Do not answer that question.
Taliesin: We can answer the continent.
Laura: As you can see, we're half-elves.
Matt: "We are to walk to the den. We are to learn your information. Then what?"
Taliesin: Set up a situation where we can monitor you and possibly contact you when it's time, and even let you know if we think the dragon's about to leave, so that you can prepare.
Matt: "I have lived to see this day by not being deceived or tricked. You speak words that are not direct. They wind. They spin. They circle. What guarantee do I have that you will not just flee?"
Marisha: To be fair, what guarantee do we have that you won't kill us, and the ambush was meant for us? I believe there is untrust on both sides.
Matt: At which point, she steps off of the throne, steps on both of her feet, and when she's off the throne, her imposing form becomes far less imposing. You can see now there's a very heavy hunch to her back, and as she scuffles forward, she's an almost pitiful-looking sight, physically. As she pulls forward to walk straight to you, Keyleth, you see the somewhat clouded, cataract-ridden eyes of the dragonborn female Tooma. She comes up to you and goes, "We are a proud people, even when pressed into the dirt for as many years as we have been. We reclaim our honor. We reclaim our place in this world. We wish to do this as peacefully as possible, but we have been forced to scrounge and survive through this freedom. We wish you no folly. We wish you no ill will. But we also have learned that trust needs to be earned; it cannot be spoken and given so freely. Both ways. You are right to mistrust, as are we of you. But that is the impasse. One must have faith, in one way or another, if there is to be a compromise."
Marisha: I think faith and trust are not mutually exclusive. I can not trust you and still have faith, and you should not feel lack of pride for living in the dirt, or surviving. There's nothing wrong with that. But I understand your urge to want to rebuild, become the great culture that I know you all are. So you should at least trust that we have similar interests in the end.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: Ooh! 19!
Sam: Was that opal?
Taliesin: Yes, it was.
Marisha: Opal's back! 25.
Matt: 25. She reaches forward and extends a finger that gently scrapes the bottom of the chin, not too much to hurt, but to go across the skin and pull your chin upward into the light of the fire a little bit. "There is much wisdom in there for so young a face. All right. There are not many options we have, either. Come. We will walk. And at the very least, if you decide to flee, never return."
Marisha: We can give you that word.
Laura: Tooma. Are the Frigid Doom's armies around? Will they see us?
Matt: "There are a handful of dregs that stayed behind, but you tell me you wear many faces."
Laura: We certainly don't want them to see ours.
Sam: What should we disguise ourselves as?
Matt: She points past, over your head, and goes, "Tiny gnome, the faces of those that lead you here."
Sam: Okay, tiny is uncalled for, but I understand. The faces of your tribe, of your clan. All right.
Matt: "Be glad you walk with one as wise."
Marisha: Is she talking about me? That's awesome!
Matt: She begins to shuffle over, and you watch as two of the dragonborn walk over and scoop her up shoulder to shoulder, and she shrugs them off and pushes them away. "I can walk myself." She begins shuffling, and they separate and open. She walks partway out as you guys stand there, and turns around and beckons. "Well, come."
Travis: We follow.
Laura: Can you cast Seeming again?
Sam: I can do Seeming one more time. All right.
Laura: Wait, if you cast Seeming, will we still be able to get into the--
Sam: We've still got the mansion. Handicaps me a bit, but I will cast Seeming again on the party and do the same thing, except slightly different colors and slightly less tail. (laughter)
Matt: The larger dragonborn that let you in--
Sam: My tail nub is slightly larger than the rest. It's a cube. It's a tail cube.
Matt: As the rest of the guards circle around and begin to walk, a little bit of trepidation, but going along with Tooma, the large one who let you in goes, "Tooma. Are you certain?" She turns around and goes, "Skork, there are few things that are certain in this world. I am not long for it, but if we are not to seize the opportunity of kinship, we miss the opportunity for survival. Is it a risk? Yes. Sometimes it's a risk worth taking." And she keeps walking. The rest of them gather behind, and the now-named Skork gives a nod and continues walking along.
Sam: Have we heard of Skork?
Marisha: Is that his name?
Laura: He was the guy that we talked to right when we got here.
Matt: Yeah. You guys are led out of the tunnel, back into the freezing air. The wind has picked up a bit, and you can now hear this low hum as it hits certain portions of the cavern and causes low vibrational whistles in the distance. The snow has begun to fall a little heavier now, and as you walk out, you can hear the crunch of your footsteps as you're stepping through heavier and heavier blankets of snow.
Laura: Can I tell Tooma, as we walk out  P.S., if that dragon comes back, we need to bolt.
Matt: She nods. "If that dragon comes back, we never saw you, you never saw us."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: She's very slow, by the way. Your passage of travel is about half speed as she leads the charge, but everyone respectfully keeps in pace with her.
Sam: Tooma, have you ever heard of a dragonborn named Gern Blanston?
Matt: She thinks for a second. "That name has not come to my mind, no."
Sam: Us neither.
Matt: Pushing on, it's gotten a little lighter in the sky. You figure, based on your arrival, you may have just come in at the cusp of dawn, and the sun has now gotten higher in the sky. You're on the entire opposite side of the planet now, so the cycle has changed based on the location you're currently in. Well, you had rested, actually. You left in the morning. You would've gotten here-- actually, opposite of that. It's actually now getting to dusk. Even though it's only been a couple of hours of daylight that you've seen since you woke up this morning, it's already beginning to set, and the sky is getting darker.
Laura: We lost a day, but the dragon will still take the same amount of time.
Liam: Ugh. I'm so tree-lagged, though.
Marisha: I know. Always sucks going west to east.
Matt: You're led over a portion of the ravine, ever so slowly, that lifts up, and then as you get to the crest, it bends down into a far deeper and wider portion of the ravine. This is now the center part of this entire giant physical anomaly that is this giant crack in the ground, and you can see the bulk of the fallen city is in the center of this area.
Laura: Do we see any big trees around here?
Matt: You see a couple of larger trees that sprout out from the rubble. There's ones that managed to survive the impact of certain areas of stone, though it looks like a lot of the bark has been stripped, and they might not be alive that you can see from this distance. There are smaller trees towards the edge, and a few still protruding from portions of the walls.
Sam: Note every tree as we walk by.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm paying attention to the trees. That's the biggest tree that's now closest to us. Now that's the biggest tree that's now closest to us. Now that one.
Matt: As you're led down into the ravine, you reach this central structure, and you can already see from this distance, as the snow falls, hitting and covering the rocks, there are dozens and dozens of those spikes of ice jutting out of the rock, each with one or two various frozen corpses impaled on them and left. At the top of this, you can see a large cluster of ice that is in a somewhat round gathering, and you can see-- actually, no, you don't see that. Sorry. A note that will come into play in the future.
Travis: Can I ask a question? The bodies on the spikes. None of them look familiar, right?
Matt: You can keep watch as you go. You push towards the center of the ravine, and upon the large island of rubble, you begin to move, and it takes a good 40, 50 minutes, an hour, to traverse, a lot further than you would've expected in that time period. Sorry, a lot less than you figured you would traverse in that time, being weighed down by Tooma's gait. However, the rubble begins to subside, and you begin to see steps of ice. Not perfect, carved steps, but elements of encapsulated broken platforms of ice that act as stairs. Vax, Vex, and Keyleth, as you guys begin to move up the steps, and you especially, Vex, you can see, with what little bit of light is beginning to shine down through the ice, you can see mounds and mounds of coins and jewel boxes and many expensive knick-knacks and collections, all below feet of solid ice, all clustered towards the apex of this collapsed, ruined island.
Laura: Tooma, is Vorugal having you collect all of this?
Matt: "Vorugal sends us to pay the debt we owe for being freed, yes. We scavenge. We spend our days searching for food, for the means to survive, and finding what we can from the ruins of the broken Draconia."
Laura: And when you can't find anything? What then?
Matt: "These are the thoughts that consume me. It is the reason you are still alive." Everyone make a perception check.
Sam: Yeah, dog! 14!
Marisha: 28.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Sam: That wasn't the golden snitch?
Taliesin: No, I put the golden snitch away for the evening.
Laura: I got a natural 20 when I dropped it. Giving up on it.
Matt: As you guys begin to approach, you can see now the ice that encases the golden coins begins to ripple upward, and it's getting harder and harder to climb. You can see now, it comes to an apex in this bowl-like formation, and as you get to a point where it's harder to ascend, you can see Tooma stops and sees that she can't go much further, and she points up and goes, "That is where it sleeps. That is where we come to give what we find. And that is where it should fall."
Laura: What is its nature? Is it vain? Does it want you to bow before it?
Matt: "It does not ask for kneeling. It asks for fear and respect. It asks us to bring the most powerful creatures in the land for it to chase."
Laura: Can I roll an insight check on her again? Jesus. This is creepy. 27.
Matt: 27.
Liam: So the box is full of loot?
Sam: No, it's a crate, Liam.
Liam: The crate is full of boxes?
Sam: Yes. A crate full of boxes. Box Crate, our best sponsor. Inside the boxes are tinier boxes.
Liam: When do you get to the loot, though?
Sam: No, it's a Russian nesting doll of boxes and crates.
Liam: Box-box.
Sam: Box-box, and then inside is a box-crate, and inside that is tiny-bag-crate.
Laura: What are you guys talking about?
Sam: Liam! Do you want all those boxes?
Liam: I need boxes.
Sam: You get $3 off the first box of boxes. Crate-crate.
Matt: All right. So. "This is its home. This is its shrine."
Laura: Check for fucking traps before we go in there.
Sam: Is it up? Is it down? Is it through?
Matt: The top comes into this giant bowl, this platform of ice, and it's almost like a nest where it sits.
Travis: A big icy dog bed.
Sam: By the way, we've been in dragons' lairs before, and the lairs themselves do things, right?
Liam: Yes, with the dragon in them.
Sam: But when the dragon's not in them they don't do anything?
Liam: My sister and I are going to have a look around. I have a question for you, though. If we make a stand here today, in theory, is it worth it to you to stand with us?
Matt: "If you feel confident. Otherwise, we walk to our death prematurely."
Laura: Yeah, let's not do that today. This is reconnaissance.
Taliesin: If all goes well, we will have one more conversation.
Liam: All right. I'm going to start searching the ground for traps.
Taliesin: I do have one other question  The bodies on the spikes. How did that happen? What was that?
Matt: "When the islands fell, there was a great fight of those that survived against the dragon. We did not join in, out of fear, and out of not knowing which side would come out. Vorugal stayed behind as the other two flew. The dragon asked us why we do not fight. We said, 'Because it is not 'our place.' The dragon said, 'Well, your place is now that of free kin.' The dragon summoned forth these spikes, and drove it through the hearts of many of the Sky-walkers. Many of us cheered, for it was a symbol that many had wished to see for a long time, but at the same time, the older ones of us... It was not what we wanted. It was not how we wished to be freed. But we had no way of stopping him. As time went on, and with each surviving Sky-walker that was found, there were no more cheers. Just the dread of knowing that maybe in time, when all the spikes are filled, it may be us on them next."
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: 29. Looking for any traps.
Matt: Okay. You spend the next 15 minutes or so, 20 minutes, skirting around the outside of this large frozen bowl, looking for some semblance of a set trap. You don't recognize anything as any sort of mechanism placed that would set off your warning defense systems as a rogue.
Laura: Can I stand on the top and look out from the platform and see what is visible from the platform and what areas seem hidden in the landscape?
Taliesin: I'm going to join you on that.
Matt: Both of you guys roll perception checks.
Sam: I have an idea.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Marisha: Natural fucking 20.
Laura: I don't even need to look. Good.
Taliesin: You both saw that, right? That just fucking happened. This is not my normal die. This is something I bought at Comic Con.
Matt: Oh, it's not the dice anymore. We know that you've somehow gained the favor of some Aztec deity that's trying to reclaim its foothold in the current-day pantheon through you.
Taliesin: Sumerian, you asshole.
Matt: It would be Sumerian.
Taliesin: I'm bringing a shrine to Burning Man, by the way.
Laura: Oh, this is pertaining to dragons!
Matt: No, this is more of an icy terrain. Nevertheless, between the two of you keeping an eye out, through this Marduk Enki-loving fool over here--
Taliesin: Bless you for knowing a Sumerian deity.
Matt: You look off and see that most of it, and its design here is to be a sentry point. The reason it's built over the structure is it has a view of the entirety of this central open valley in the ravine. There are nooks and crannies. There are elements of ice that can be carved away. There are small alcoves that could be out of sight, lower beyond the ice steps and such, but there is no extremely visible pockets or things that are completely out of the visual sight from that perch. It was designed specifically to be a place to survey everything.
Taliesin: Are there other perches?
Matt: From what you can see here? There are outcroppings of stone and elements that jut out naturally from the valley wall, but it's a wide berth from each side.
Taliesin: Does this seem like the only thing, or would there be other sentry points, as well?
Matt: If flown to and held in, yeah. There are a couple of other rock areas where the dragon would be able to hold himself, but this is definitively--
Liam: Is this the highest?
Matt: Which one?
Liam: The highest.
Travis: The highest point.
Taliesin: So we have a really good vantage right now.
Matt: From here, yeah. This is the highest point in the ravine.
Taliesin: Do we see the orb? Do we see an orb?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Sam: Can I help?
Laura: We're all looking.
Taliesin: There we go. See? That wasn't great.
Sam: 28.
Taliesin: 11.
Liam: 17.
Laura: 16.
Travis: Nine!
Matt: You guys take a while glancing about. Nothing. Scanlan, you dart down and begin peering up against the ice walls that surround it. Going down into the actual scooping bowl of this dragon nest, and looking down, you can see a little glimmer of light that refracts at a different angle than the rest of the ice. A spherical surface is visible about two and a half feet below.
Sam: Okay. Do we smash it? Do we use it to make a crank call? What do we do with it? Steal it?
Laura: They'll be able to scry on us for sure if we steal it. They see us. The minute we looked into Brimscythe's.
Sam: I could do a Vorugal voice and say  Thordak, you're a cock!
Taliesin: We don't actually know his voice.
Sam: I could say  Thordak, I'm in desperate need of pay!
Laura: Do you speak dragon?
Sam: I guess you'll have to do that. What do we do? Do we break it so he can't communicate with the outside? That way when we kill him, he can't call for help.
Travis: If we do, then we violate what we said we were going to do.
Sam: What did we say we would to do? I have a great idea for how to kill this fucker.
Laura: You have a great idea of how to kill it?
Sam: Well, I have an idea. Tooma told us that they bring animals to hunt. We could be one of those animals and draw it to a certain spot.
Taliesin: And draw it to a certain spot?
Sam: Where we kill it.
Taliesin: With our...
Sam: With our army of fucking Draconians and our ice thing that we've shaped into some sort of a trap.
Taliesin: I get a distinct impression that it is not impressed by ice.
Sam: Fire trap. Rock trap.
Matt: And you're saying this out loud amongst the crew, right?
Sam: Just us.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oh shit.
Marisha: The ears have walls.
Laura: And also, you're right in front of the scrying circle.
Liam: It's buried by ice.
Marisha: It's buried by ice, but that doesn't mean it doesn't work.
Matt: As soon as you called them Draconians, there were a few hisses from the nearby crew.
Marisha: The Ravenites.
Taliesin: Do they speak Common?
Liam: Some of them do. We spoke to them in Common.
Laura: We spoke to Tooma in Common.
Taliesin: Let's make a plan.
Sam: I just did. I made a plan. It's an ambush plan.
Taliesin: Okay, and then we go home and the dragons are at war. Then what?
Sam: What do you mean, the dragons are at war? There's only two more dragons at that point. We killed three-fifths of them.
Laura: If we attack one dragon, we start the war. That is something we've been told over and over.
Sam: What does that even mean? We've already attacked two dragons. There's been no war.
Laura: Once one more is dead, they'll probably all attack.
Sam: Attack what?
Liam: They'll stop playing nice. They'll start destroying.
Sam: We have to kill them at some point.
Taliesin: Yes, and now is not that point.
Laura: The greatest plan we have is what Grog came up with, which is pitting them against each other.
Sam: All right, so how do we use this orb to do that right now?
Marisha: Do we have to use the orb?
Sam: That's why we came here!
Laura: We came here to find out what its lair looked like.
Taliesin: What we are going to need is we need to sneak you in there, and we need you to take a movement.
Sam: What does that mean?
Liam: A poo, Scanlan.
Sam: I can't do it anymore.
Laura: What?!
Liam: What?!
Sam: I used my last magic poo to look at my daughter.
Liam: What a sentence! What a sentence.
Laura: In every aspect, Scanlan, disgusting.
Matt: That's the next t-shirt.
Travis: That's amazing. I used my last magic poo to look at my daughter!
Sam: I need to know where she is. I need to know she's okay. Gilmore can maybe make me some more potion, but I haven't wanted to bother him about it because he's busy keeping a shield around Whitestone.
Laura: Don't!
Sam: Shit.
Laura: You didn't say that out loud. You did not just say that out loud.
Sam: I said it in an accent.
Matt: That was out loud.
Marisha: All right. Hang on. Let's think about this for a minute.
Laura: Can we just step away from the orb while we talk?
Marisha: Yeah, let's do that.
Taliesin: We're not near the orb. We're near the Draconians, aren't we?
Travis: Ravenites.
Marisha: Ravenites.
Matt: They're still all gathered around the base. They walked you here and they're basically watching you set up for this ambush preparation or gathering. They're not going to leave you to your own devices. They're still not quite sure of everything.
Laura: Can we sketch what it looks like? I think you should sketch, Percy.
Sam: We need to use this opportunity. We're never going to be in this dragon's lair again! This is it. Crack the thing. Set a trap. Burn it down.
Travis: I have a suggestion.
Sam: Yes, Grog, you're the best.
Travis: The white dragon is primal, right? He likes to hunt creatures. We've got to go now. We leave. We leave them alone. That way we're not in danger, they're not in danger. We promise to come back, not only with forces to help remove the white dragon, but also with something for it to hunt. That way we're not fighting it in its fucking lair.
Taliesin: We know a lot already.
Sam: I can pretend to be a beast.
Taliesin: Scanlan, why would you bother to pretend to be a beast? If he just finds you, he'll hunt you and kill you.
Travis: We know that there are people that will work with us. We know what the terrain looks like. We know what his lair looks like, which we don't want to be in when we fight him. And we know how to get him out of it, possibly. It's a pretty successful trip.
Liam: One possibility is we could come back with Galdric, and he and I could play bait.
Sam: Galdric is the wolf, right?
Liam: He's a big fucking wolf.
Taliesin: We've made allies. We've got a look at everything. We know the terrain, and we know the political terrain.
Laura: Maybe Urukat would want to come and fight a dragon.
Marisha: He might.
Taliesin: I will also add that we can leave them with something.
Marisha: That's what I was thinking. Maybe this isn't about destroying something. Maybe it's about planting something. If we destroy anything, the dragon's going to immediately blame the locals.
Laura: What would we leave? I don't want them able to scry on us.
Travis: How about a little wine?
Taliesin: How about a small grove of trees?
Marisha: I could leave trees.
Travis: They did want trees.
Laura: I could leave trees, too.
Marisha: We also have this Scrying Eye. Can I use this remotely?
Matt: No, you have to have it in your hands to utilize it.
Taliesin: It's all right.
Travis: I like the tree idea.
Laura: Tooma, just in case something happens and a big red dragon comes to pick a fight, everyone hide. Get out of the way.
Matt: "I appreciate the advice. I can guarantee you there would be no other course of action."
Sam: Can we carve in the lair "Thordak was here" or something?
Liam: They'll know it was you.
Laura: I think we got the information--
Travis: Tooma. Forgive me, I'm not the best speaker, but we have learned from fighting these dragons that if we fight them in their lair, we are at a severe disadvantage.
Matt: "Then get it from its lair."
Travis: We are of a mind on that.
Laura: What kind of creatures do you offer to it for hunt?
Matt: "It is growing bored with dire beasts. We've even brought it to the ocean, where there were some great terrors beneath the sea, but it tore them asunder. There are, northward, large segmented insect-like creatures they call the remorhaz. That was a scuffle, but I fear the dragon grows bored."
Sam: Got to go find us a beast and bring it here.
Taliesin: No, I've got a better idea.
Liam: Spit it out.
Taliesin: Once we've gathered some resources, when we return, we prepare to attack post-hunt. Once it has exhausted itself on something large and angry, that is when we strike the dragon.
Laura: How will we be able to communicate with them, for them to let us know?
Sam: We'll be here the whole time.
Taliesin: When we come back, we stay until it's time. When we come back, it is to end this.
Liam: For now, we leave a back-door entrance.
Taliesin: With the trees, we will know how to return quickly with a force.
Marisha: This might be something we go to the Slayer's Take for. They always have a roster of big beasts.
Taliesin: With a little bit of information, we could even keep them informed of things for it to kill that they may find around here, with the Slayer's Take's help. We can keep you in supply of things to amuse it.
Matt: "I trust you know what you say. These words mean nothing to me."
Taliesin: We are sorry that this cannot end as quickly as would be agreeable. We can do our best to help make you comfortable, and if you need some proof of the power that we wield, we can offer a token. I have a thought. But if you wish, a token of our power.
Matt: "How about this. I trust you to return. Let's set a time, so we know where the limits are. Eight days."
Marisha: Wow. That's soon.
Taliesin: We can send a beast before, perhaps, but our travel is long. We may need more time. We have two more continents.
Matt: "How much time do you need?"
Laura: Two weeks.
Taliesin: Two weeks.
Matt: "Two weeks?"
Taliesin: Continents. Further than you have walked in your life. We move quickly, but there is only so much that can be done.
Matt: "Two weeks. 14 sun cycles past. If we do not hear from you, the Frigid Doom is known to this Whitestone you speak."
Laura: Fucking shit balls, Scanlan.
Liam: They're extorting us.
Matt: "Not extorting. Making sure you are of your word, because otherwise you leave us here to die on promises that are fake and false."
Liam: To-may-to, to-mah-to.
Laura: We don't do that.
Matt: "Good. Then we'll see you before two weeks is out."
Laura: Yep.
Marisha: I will leave you with a parting gift. I will leave you with a grove of trees that should be ever-growing and present.
Laura: If you do that, he'll know something is different.
Marisha: He will.
Taliesin: No. We plant one tree.
Marisha: One?
Taliesin: No, we have to plant some trees. Find a place that is secret.
Marisha: I can plant these trees anywhere. Just need solid ground.
Travis: If you can get away from the city--
Marisha: I can possibly do it subterranean.
Matt: "There is solid ground here. Up there, above the ravine, wherever else you need it to be."
Marisha: Where does the dragon not tread? Where do you know he will not see the trees?
Matt: "Probably out of the ravine. He stalks inside quite extensively."
Taliesin: Let's find a place. This will be where we leave, anyway.
Sam: Tooma. I have one more question about Gern Blanston. I raise the hand cone, and I cast Modify Memory on her.
Travis: Oh no. Oh jeez. Oh man, I love it.
Liam: Look at Matt's face.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: We're about to get attacked.
Taliesin: No, we're about to run.
Liam: Can I roll my initiative in advance?
Matt: There we go. All right, what's the DC?
Sam: 21.
Matt: What are you trying to do?
Sam: I'm trying to change the moment that I said "Whitestone" into "Emon."
Matt: You watch as she leans in, and she shakes her head for a minute and goes, "What was your question? I do not know these words you speak."
Sam: Candles. Have you ever met a candle-maker?
Matt: "I know not of a candle-maker."
Taliesin: I do have a request on our way out.
Matt: "What is your request?"
Taliesin: Would the dragon notice if any of these bodies were disturbed?
Matt: "Many, yes. But small amounts... why? If you wish to take what they have, they mean nothing to us. One or two turned over will make no difference to the dragon."
Taliesin: Pull that one down, then.
Matt: "Right." She points to it. Some of the Ravenites come over and haul one of the corpses off of the spike. It breaks off and snaps, and they bring it and throw it to the ground and step back.
Taliesin: Thank you. (sighs) It is exactly what I expect, I would assume.
Matt: The robes are familiar. The scale color is familiar.
Taliesin: I look it over. I check.
Matt: There, locked in the moments of valiant defense of his city, frozen and lost, the remains of Tiberius Stormwind, left a hero defending his people, defaced by Vorugal the Frigid Doom.
Taliesin: Let's bring him inside, at least.
Travis: Yeah. I go and I gather the remains.
Matt: They are stiff and frozen, but light enough for you to carry.
Liam: Where are we taking him?
Taliesin: I don't know. The remnants of the library, perhaps. The ground's too hard to bury.
Marisha: We can't even pretend like he was our friend.
Taliesin: No. We absolutely cannot.
Travis: I have a horrible thought. If we move him, will the dragon know we were here?
Sam: Was he on one of those stakes?
Taliesin: He was. No, I checked. Unless he's very clever and very keen, and I don't think they are. I think that if they knew, he would be in a more exalted position of defacement. I think this is just slaughter. Things vanish. I'm all right with making this vanish. That's as much of a calling card as I feel we need to leave.
Travis: Where should we bring him?
Sam: His home doesn't really exist anymore.
Marisha: His home was with us.
Laura: Back to Emon.
Taliesin: I have a thought.
Liam: To our keep. It was very important to him.
Sam: This is his place.
Taliesin: We're not bringing him to us. We're leaving him here, but we're putting him somewhere appropriate.
Liam: We'd take him away. Can you melt ice and snow, and we'll lay him here?
Taliesin: Put him with the books.
Laura: He always loved them.
Sam: For now, anyway. And then when we free this place, we can find a proper tomb for him.
Travis: We take him back to where the frozen books lay.
Matt: You find the remnants of the library. As you find a section of the stone rubble that's loose enough, you pull it open, and there beneath, you can see there are hundreds and hundreds of books, many still pristine, if a little soggy from the melted snow. You gather a lot of time was spent in this library in his youth, and it's probably as good a place as any to leave his memory for the time.
Laura: Are any of the Ravenites around us, or are we alone?
Matt: They're keeping their distance, but they're watching. You get the sense that they understand what's going on, but they're not taking any offense to it.
Taliesin: This will do.
Liam: I start pulling books out.
Marisha: I start melting ice.
Laura: Is Lockheed still on my shoulder?
Matt: Lockheed is still on your shoulder.
Laura: I bring him down so he can say goodbye.
Matt: As the ice melts, color comes to the body. You can see the tattered robes that show a fierce battle was fought. Regardless of this condition of finding him, knowing him as well as you did, he still probably left a hero. As you lay him down on the books, mostly thawed now, Lockheed finds a moment of recognition and immediately flutters onto his chest and curls up, mews a bit, nibbles at the chin.
Liam: I'm going to sit three or four feet away from him, facing him, and start privately thanking the Raven Queen for ushering him on.
Travis: I'm going to take a chalice out of the bag of holding, and I begin to fill it with ale, and then remember he preferred water, and I take the alchemy jug and I pour fresh water into the chalice and lay it with him.
Marisha: I take and I rip off a piece of his robes. Tuck it away.
Taliesin: Can you seal it?
Matt: As you guys step back, the nearby stone clatters to life.
Laura: I get Lockheed out of there. I don't want him to stay in. Do you want to come?
Matt: Lockheed resists and resists and doesn't want to leave.
Laura: In Draconic I say  It's all right.
Matt: Lockheed curls up onto his face and nibbles a bit on the forehead, then turns back and flutters up onto your shoulder. The stonework clatters closed over the top of the rubble of the library.
Marisha: Keyleth drops to her knees and starts crying.
Matt: Vax. In this moment of sadness, there is a bit of warmth, as you sense, though remote as it is through the Divine Gate, the Raven Queen's assurance that his spirit has made it to the other side.
Laura: I put my hand on Keyleth's shoulder. He loved you well, princess.
Marisha: He was so stupid.
Liam: He meant well.
Taliesin: I'm going to find Tooma. Is she behind us?
Marisha: He should have never left our side.
Taliesin: Hopefully, this war will go on schedule. But there's our promise. That's the best you're going to get. I head out.
Marisha: I follow Percy.
Sam: I turn around and say  Goodbye, old friend. We'll come back and we'll fix this. Because this is... poppycock.
Matt: As you gather yourselves up, here amongst the ruins of Draconia, the last of the sky's light, the sun has faded and the night has taken its form. You hear the distant caws of the evening birds as they begin to take to the skies above the ravine. Tooma and the rest of the Ravenites give a nod as you join hands. Keyleth?
Marisha: Let's go home.
Taliesin: Yes, let's. There's much to do.
Marisha: Back to Whitestone.
Laura: Were you going to leave a tree?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: We let them know where the grove would be found, before we left them.
Marisha: I do Plant Growth. Make a big old tree.
Matt: All righty. Where do you create the tree?
Marisha: Wherever we decided it was best to create the tree.
Laura: Outside of the ravine.
Taliesin: At the top. A little grove of trees.
Matt: Which, with a simple use of the broom or wild shape, you can make your way up there, find a small patch of bushes, create a single tree that didn't exist there previously, a small sapling now grown to full height. The bastion of a promise to be kept. Keyleth returns. You take hands. You step through the nearest tree as the portal opens, and find yourself emerging from the other side of the Sun Tree, back in Whitestone.
Marisha: I give the Sun Tree a little pat.
Matt: The morning sun begins to rise.
Taliesin: We'll report what we've seen. We'll try to gain our bearings again, get sleep tonight. We'll report what we've seen in the new room. No one else. And we will never utter this city's name outside these walls again.
Sam: Totally. Dick move.
Matt: You find yourselves to rest, keeping memories fresh untill sleep takes you.
Marisha: Knock on Vax's door.
Sam: Oh god.
Matt: All right. As everyone else is going to rest, Keyleth, you find your way to Vax's door.
Marisha: Can I stay with you tonight?
Liam: I don't fuck anything up with words, and I open the door.
Sam: What?
Liam: I'm not going to fuck it up by saying anything. I open the door.
Marisha: I just go in.
Matt: Whether or not you are taking the time to sleep or ruminate on the events, as it's only been half a day since last you woke up, you take some time with Lockheed. He eats a little more food and leaps to the window of your room, and then takes off over the rest of Whitestone. You process this time, this moment, this memory, and realize how much has been lost through this journey, but yet how much is worth saving. How much is worth fighting for. And then, as much as you bunch of fuck-up misfits that came together as friends years ago have come to a point of understanding your true worth and what the importance is of really standing up for the things that you believe in in this world, and the people that need protecting, and know that the next step of your journey should come soon. Whether you stand or fall, this is the fight that needs to be fought. And with luck be at your side, that terrible fucking dragon will meet its end soon enough. And with that we'll pick up next week on Thursday.
Taliesin: Glad we decided to take a light-hearted game.
Sam: It's a fun romp after the Feywild, a fun romp.
Liam: Bar hop! Bar crawl!
Marisha: I need a stiff drink.
Matt: I was simultaneously looking forward to and not looking forward to the return to Draconia for that reason.
Laura: Man.
Matt: We'll pick it up next week, guys.
Marisha: Yay.
Matt: I'm sorry. Sorry, guys. Sorry to you.
Laura: Thanks, Loot Crate.
Sam: $3 discount.
Travis: Pour one out for Tibs. We will be.
Matt: Not all narrative is bright, but it has its purpose.
Sam: We're next. (laughter)
Matt: We love you guys. Thank you for sticking through us for an emotionally draining evening. We'll be back next Thursday to see the next length of Vox Machina's journey. Is it Thursday yet? Good night.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons.
Liam: I take offense at that!
Matt: Yep. Welcome to the chaos.
Taliesin: We're cool.
Matt: Well, you guys are cool. I'm still working on it.
Laura: You're in that picture too, Matthew.
Matt: I am, but of all the people in that picture, I think I needed the most work.
Travis: Oh, come on! Get out of here!
Liam: Loser contest, loser contest! I am the biggest loser!
Matt: Hey guys, I'm the one with Critical Tape tonight, so. Critical Tape on our fantastic sconce there. Spare no expense. Anyway. So before we go ahead and jump in tonight, I want to give a big thanks and Sam's going to back me up on this for our sponsor for tonight's episode, Backblaze. (cheering)
Matt: Sam, why don't you tell us all about that, please?
Sam: Guys, I'm a little disappointed tonight, because I prepared an epic presentation tonight. It was multimedia, there were song elements, there were rhyming-verse sonnets, I wrote a great poem about how Backblaze is unlimited and you can get it for just five dollars a month, about how it backs up-- you get all your data anywhere in the world, on the web or on your phones, and you can get a full-featured preview of it by going to backblaze.com/criticalrole, I wrote all this stuff down on my laptop, but my laptop had a catastrophic hard drive failure today, and I didn't back it up with Backblaze. And this is what I'm talking about, guys, this is my art that I made, my art, there was a whole piece about you that would've brought you to tears, you'll never get to hear any of it.
Travis: What about me?
Sam: There was nothing about you. But it was beautiful artwork that I made that you'll never get to hear. However, I do remember one little piece of it. I wrote this song, from scratch, about Backblaze. It's an original piece not based on any Broadway musical, and it goes like this: (singing) 525,600 fanfics, 525,000 doodles of Grog, 525,000 nudies of Percleth, how do you back up a Critter's hard drive? How about Backblaze! How about Backblaze! Sam wrote this song. Okay, good, that's it. (cheering)
Travis: Oh, so in love with you right now. Backblaze never sounded so good. Holy shit.
Matt: Let's have a very, very brief moment of silence for your hard drive. Thank you, that was great. All right.
Travis: My musical boner for you is super rigid right now.
Sam: Oh yeah? You would be even more hard if you knew that I was talking to Lin-Manuel today.
Laura: (gasp)
Travis: (gasp)
Laura: No you were not. Is that part of announcements?
Sam: No, that's just a little humblebrag.
Laura: You mother-- wow.
Sam: We should probably run that intro, right?
Matt: Yeah, in just a second.
Laura: So we can hear about it!
Travis: You're full of shit, right?
Matt: All right, other announcements, I wanted to say real fast, it got posted in the Anime Florida convention that's this weekend, I did say unfortunately I had to cancel on the event due to personal reasons. I'm sorry I can't be there, but they have a lot of great guests. Please go, have fun, check it out, it's going to be great. I'm going to make it up to you guys, since there are thankfully plenty of conventions in Florida throughout the year, so I plan to be out there really soon and will get a chance to make it up to you guys in person. Anyway. Sorry about that. Much love, and let's get into this episode. So everyone ready? Everyone set? We had a few levels, actually. We had Vex, Vax, Grog, and Keyleth, all hit level 15.
Sam: Whoa. What's up with us?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Marisha: We're gods now.
Travis: I'm the smartest man alive.
Marisha: I have my 8th-level spell.
Laura: (gasps) Do you really?
Marisha: Yeah I do.
Laura: Can we know what you took? No, that's got to be a surprise.
Marisha: I get them all.
Laura: Oh, you don't have to choose?
Matt: Well, she has to choose at the beginning of each day.
Laura: Fucking rangers.
Liam: I multiclassed into monk.
Laura: No you didn't. I took the second level in rogue, though.
Sam: Oh yeah? Do you get a rogue spell?
Laura: I don't get any rogue spells, but I do get to disengage now.
Marisha: You so sneaky.
Travis: And she gets to sleep with barbarians whenever she wants.
Sam: Ew. (laughter)
Taliesin: Somehow no new information, yet still TMI.
Matt: And on that note, let's dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone. So. Last time we left off, Vox Machina, in their attempt to gain power through artifacts called the Vestiges of Divergence, to eventually destroy the Chroma Conclave, great evil dragons that came together to terrorize the Tal'Dorei countryside, they were seeking one in the country-- continent of Marquet, the city of Ank'harel. After traveling there and meeting with members of the various establishments, the new culture they were introduced to, a drug deal gone awry, some time in a casino, some hookah excursions and some terrible alcohol purchases, they found themselves finding an ally in the current head and for the past 400 years the head of the city of Ank'harel known as J'mon Sa Ord. They gave the party their allegiance in this endeavor against the Conclave and presented them with a brass flute that apparently can at least notify that the aid is required. After which the party spent the evening in their tavern after the casino incident and then went searching for this individual, this Mistress Asharu who apparently has the Cabal's Ruin, this next Vestige in your journey. Upon checking in her house after having no response for a couple days, you broke inside to find that the home had been attacked as of a week ago, her body left behind, apparently riddled with puncture wounds, seemingly bullet holes after your inspection, Percy, and Cabal's Ruin, the cloak that you were seeking, is gone. And that is where we left off. So. Diving back in, you've had the information synced to you that Mistress Asharru's been destroyed, Cabal's Ruin is gone. You went and checked out the small back exit that led to one of the other streets of the city, essentially another way out of the house. That's all the information you have right now, and you're all trying to wrap your head around what just happened and what the next steps are. What do you want to do?
Laura: We're still in the house?
Matt: You're still in the house, yes.
Laura: I'm a little nervous that the trap that went off on the front door was an alarm system.
Sam: Sure.
Laura: For whoever left.
Taliesin: It might be.
Travis: With the cloak?
Sam: Or it could've been Cloaky's alarm system that means that whoever killed Cloaky got in through not the front door.
Laura: Yeah, but we saw a trail of blood leading to the front door.
Sam: That was her trying to get out after she was stabbed to death, right? No?
Laura: No, I think it was the blood from--
Travis: Yeah, otherwise she walked back in her individual footsteps and then laid down.
Sam: You're right, that is better detective work than mine.
Laura: I think. I mean, I think that it was--
Sam: But how'd they get out without-- so whoever the murderer is set the trap as he/she was leaving.
Travis: The murderer who's shooting bullets.
Liam: Is there anything gained by discussing this here? Do we need to look any further, or should we get the hell out?
Taliesin: One last quick glance around the room to see if there's anything helpful.
Marisha: Percy, can I see your gun?
Taliesin: I hand it to her without even thinking about it.
Marisha: I inspect--
Taliesin: (gasps) You're a genius.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: (sighs) I'm so bad at these.
Matt: What are you trying to find?
Marisha: I want to see if there's a gem or device on it, like a tracking device.
Matt: Sure, go for it.
Taliesin: I'd be very impressed if there was.
Marisha: Oh, shit. 20.
Matt: 20. You inspect the gun, and the gun, almost like a pearled handle in a weapon, has whitestone inlay and certain portions of the actual weapon contain pockets of whitestone. Upon getting closer to it and-- you're perturbed as she begins to inspect closely and you see her face open up with reaction. It's probably been a while since you've missed a detail that Keyleth picked up on your own item. There is a very, very faint magical aura on the piece of whitestone that's underneath the main set of barrels on the front, and there is-- the carved signature of Ripley across the bottom does give off a faint magical glow.
Laura: She's been fucking tracking us?
Liam: What're you looking at there, Keyleth?
Travis: Oh, no.
Marisha: I think Percy was right. I think she has been spying on us.
Travis: Well, Scanlan, throw it in the acid. (laughter)
Sam: Better give me the gun.
Marisha: Wait, wait, wait. Wait, I can use this, if it's--
Sam: Can you reverse lookup on the telephone?
Marisha: Yeah, I can scry through it.
Taliesin: You can scry?
Marisha: And she was very attached to it, which means it should work pretty well.
Matt: In theory, you can scry on anybody that you've met as well, as long as you know about them.
Marisha: I've also met her, so that helps.
Matt: I would give that a bonus to the actual roll.
Travis: I agree with what Vax is going to say, we should move.
Liam: Yeah, if anyone wants to roll this place, do it, and let's get out of here.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a quick look around, quickly, quickly. Investigation, or? It doesn't matter, that was a terrible roll.
Matt: What are you looking for?
Taliesin: Clues, objects, I'm basically doing the standard police tumble. I'm tossing the place.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: I rolled a nine.
Matt: A nine. You angrily begin throwing things around the room in a fit. But you're so unfocused in your search, it's less about the actual search and more about the frustration that this bypassed your attention for so long, and you guys watch as Percy begins to throw the bed to the side and go through and start shoving stuff off of counters, and he's not really looking for anything, he's just trying to deal with his pent-up frustration.
Marisha: Percy. We should go. This isn't helping anything.
Taliesin: Yes. Yes. Yes. Better to do that in here than outside. Secret passage?
Liam: Yeah, it's this way. I think I checked for traps last--
Laura: Because you already went up to the top.
Liam: Yeah. I went all the way to the top and peeked around.
Matt: Yeah, there were no traps and you managed to make it through below the small--
Liam: I had a look around. Is it public, or off to the side?
Matt: It's a small alley that leads into an open public space, so as long as you listen out for anybody in the vicinity, you can--
Liam: I'm going to scurry up, open up--
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: 20. No, 22.
Matt: 22. Okay. You go up these small handholds as you go up to the top, and there's a little bit of a grate that's pushed there, you push it open, and the metal circle plops on the side. You find that there's actually a piece of thin cloth that's covering it as you push it over, and you listen up for a second. You hear the bustle on the outside of the city, but you do not notice anyone paying attention to it, and you use the right moment to dart up and you begin taking watch for the rest of the party.
Liam: I'm off to the side like Marion in Raiders, to the side of the alley.
Laura: Before I leave the room, can I check to see if it seems like Ripley was alone or if there were other people?
Matt: Make a survival check.
Laura: Natural 20.
Travis: First one of the night.
Matt: While you guys are having this conversation, Vex is occasionally chiming in this whole time, but is also keeping a very close eye on her own mental layout of how the actual scuffle happened, looking for signs of impact. You actually follow the footprints where someone smeared in the blood and tracked it up. There are varying foot sizes in some of the tracks you can see pressed in the dust, and there was a layer of dust down here within certain areas because portions of the room are not often trekked. In fact, you see from the general dust that's settled, there's a track from the bed to a couple of shelves to the table and the exit, and you get the idea that Mistress Asharru, being as trained as she was, she had a pattern and outside that pattern that she walked, there is a pretty heavy layer of dust that gathered in those areas of the room, and those areas had been disturbed in some ways, and you gather based on the footprints that are there, there were at least five or six people in the room when this went down.
Liam: Terminator overlay.
Laura: All right. Grog?
Travis: Yeah?
Laura: Can I have some of that Dust of Tracelessness?
Travis: What, are you going to mix it with some spice and get high?
Laura: Definitely.
Travis: Yup, here you go.
Laura: Can I sprinkle it around so that they can't track us in the room, having been here?
Matt: Yeah. And as you throw around the dust, all the tracks, everything that gave a sign of the previous invaders, vanishes slowly as the dust begins to cover the entirety of the floor, and as you guys leave the same. It looks weirdly undisturbed other than the body lying there with now no actual ability to track how it got there.
Sam: That's tampering with evidence. That's a definite felony.
Laura: Definitely. Not as bad a felony as shoving spice up your ass, but...
Sam: I don't know what you're talking about. That was a scientific experiment.
Liam: It was fucking awesome. Are we getting out of here, or are we going to get out of here?
Laura: Yes, yes, yes.
Matt: Okay. You all eventually make your way to the end of the secret tunnel, Vax leads you up at times when it's least likely to be noticed in the alleyway, and eventually you all make yourselves up into the top, close off the entrance, and then are hiding off, and then carefully, nonchalantly make your way into the main thoroughfare up here. And it isn't a large street, it's one of the secondary side-streets. Occasionally you have a person that comes by with a large cart, or a couple people walking arm-in-arm, but no one seems to pay any attention or notice your alleyway entry, and you have successfully obscured yourself within the rest of the denizens of Ank'harel.
Taliesin: Can you find her without her knowing?
Marisha: I mean, all magic has a risk factor depending on--
Sam: We have to look. Otherwise we have no leads at all.
Liam: Let's head back to the Debt's Respite.
Laura: And get ready to leave, because we can't hang around--
Taliesin: Talk to her employer so they know it wasn't us.
Sam: Wait, wait. Should we not scry from a different place than the place we're staying at?
Taliesin: It's the place that she knows we are already.
Travis: True.
Taliesin: She knows exactly where we're standing anywhere we're holding the bloody gun.
Travis: And when we do, we should set a little ambush in case it sets off any alarms.
Laura: Can she hear us? When you scry, can you hear?
Sam: Yeah, you can.
Marisha: I can hear, but I don't think they can hear me. It's like looking through a little window.
Laura: Yeah, so if we're talking about her right now, she can hear--
Marisha: I don't know how this runic magic works on his gun.
Matt: Yeah, you're not sure what the actual enchantment is. It's subtle.
Marisha: This is something different than what I would be doing.
Liam: I grab Keyleth's hand and pull the gun over and say, but for now, we assume she can hear everything that we are saying.
Travis: Ripley's a piece of shit.
Laura: You're a piece of shit. You're ugly.
Liam: Percival's going to fucking murder you.
Marisha: You're not that ugly. She just meant that to hurt your feelings.
Travis: Keyleth, don't soften the blow. She's a piece of shit.
Marisha: But you are a piece of shit.
Travis: Nice job. (laughter)
Sam: It's The Wire. Except terrible.
Matt: Omar's challenge rating 30.
Marisha: Was Ripley a magic-user, did she ever engage in magic?
Taliesin: Not that I really was aware. I didn't know her that well.
Sam: We know that she used some magic. She disguised her hand with some illusion spell.
Taliesin: Nothing complex.
Matt: She disguised her hand, she also a short distance seemingly teleported or managed to break away from you guys and Trinket to make her escape.
Travis: If she's anything like you, she might've paid someone to magically upgrade it for her.
Taliesin: She is like me.
Liam: She's also potentially listening to us right now, I mean, time is of the essence.
Taliesin: Let's head back to the tavern.
Matt: Okay, you guys make your way back to the Debt's Respite. You head back up to your rooms, and you have a relative private space to go ahead and discuss the next portion of your plan.
Sam: Do we leave the gun outside the room?
Taliesin: We have more than one room, right?
Matt: You have three rooms.
Taliesin: Can we leave the gun with Trinket in the other room?
Marisha: I don't know if he's qualified to handle firearms.
Taliesin: That's precisely why I want to leave the gun with Trinket in the other room.
Laura: He won't shoot it. He'll sit on it. Is there a safety?
Taliesin: It's not loaded, it's all right.
Sam: You could always put it in the Bag of Holding.
Liam: I mean, Percival, be sure there's nothing in the gun, please.
Taliesin: It's so complex to make it work, it's fine.
Marisha: If Trinket shoots himself in the ass...
Taliesin: It would be very funny, but--
Laura: He won't.
Travis: What do you want to do with it now? What's the plan?
Taliesin: We're going to leave it with Trinket in the other room for the moment, and we're going to discuss things. Leaving it under the bed with a bear in the room.
Laura: Trinket, sit on the bed.
Matt: (bear noises)
Laura: If anybody walks in the room that's not one of us, well. Make them very scared and make sure they--
Sam: Shoot them with the gun.
Laura: (laughs) Shoot them with the gun.
Matt: Licks the side of your face and gets back in a restful period with the front of his paws and his head leaning over the edge of the bed, and the bed itself is bowing under his weight.
Laura: Don't you fall asleep.
Matt: All right, so you guys head to one of the other rooms, then?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. You guys close the door behind you.
Travis: Should I keep watch outside?
Liam: Yeah, that's a good idea.
Travis: I'll stand watch outside.
Matt: And you do, Grog. This hallway is yours.
Laura: Don't you fall asleep, Grog.
Travis: (snoring)
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: I think we need to tell her employer that we are not responsible. As we were the last people to attempt to employ her, suspicion automatically falls on us, and we need to let them know immediately that it was not us.
Liam: All right. Should we scry now, though?
Marisha: I have to study and then sleep on it, because that's how my process works. (laughter)
Taliesin: Fucking method.
Laura: Okay, yeah.
Matt: You do have an item.
Marisha: Oh my god! I have that thing you gave me.
Laura: The ball, yeah, that I gave you.
Travis: You have one ball?
Liam: You have been holding out on us.
Laura: Just the one ball, though.
Marisha: I have a secret.
Sam: Vax's face.
Liam: It's not necessarily a bad thing. Anything is workable. Stupid.
Taliesin: Bless you.
Marisha: What is it that I got? I have a little ball--
Laura: The ball of seeing. The ball of scrying.
Marisha: Scrying Eye! I have the Scrying Eye.
Matt: There you go.
Sam: (singing) Scrying eyes--
All: (singing) -- are watching you.
Sam: (singing) They see your...
Matt: Anyone have the item card for the--
Marisha: I have it.
Matt: Oh, you do? Great. So yeah, it allows you to basically do the equivalent of a scry spell once per day.
Marisha: Once a day.
Matt: Yeah, all right.
Marisha: Do we want to do this here?
Liam: I think as soon as possible.
Taliesin: I think the question is, do we tell them and see if we can enlist some help with this now or wait until after we know--
Sam: Tell who?
Marisha: I mean, this is going to take me ten minutes. This is going to take me a second.
Sam: Let's find out where she is. If she's still in the city, we can maybe hunt her down and track her down today.
Taliesin: Do we get any help before we do that, though? From her employers?
Laura: We'll talk to... Treev?
Marisha: You guys figure it out, I'm going to start scrying.
Taliesin: Figure out where she's going, what she's doing, how many of them. All these things. I'm sorry.
Laura: Percy, we'll find her.
Taliesin: That's what I'm worried about.
Matt: All right, so without the gun you don't get the bonus from the item focus.
Marisha: Oh, fuck.
Matt: But you also have the gun not in your presence.
Marisha: Do we want to have the gun for this? Actually, yeah. I'll do that. I'm going to go in the other room, grab the gun, and scry.
Laura: I'm going to go sit with you while you scry.
Matt: Okay, you go into the room, and as you walk toward the bed, Trinket growls at you.
Laura: Trinket.
Taliesin: I have another option. I have another option. We still have her notes. We still have her notes.
Marisha: Does anything help?
Matt: I mean, an object of which has some close contact with the individual could help, yeah.
Marisha: Sure, whatever.
Taliesin: It is her diary notes of how to build my gun.
Matt: Yeah. You can use that instead, if you wanted.
Laura: So we're not in the room with Trinket.
Marisha: Can I use both?
Matt: They would not overlap.
Marisha: Oh.
Laura: Trinket, you keep doing your thing.
Matt: (bear noises)
Laura: All right, let's go back to the other room and let's get something else to--
Marisha: I don't know, what do you think would be better, her notes or?
Taliesin: Her notes. Let's be safe.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to use her notes.
Matt: Okay. That will add five to the DC modifier. So what's the DC of the spell?
Marisha: My spell save DC is 19.
Matt: All right, so now it's 24 to try and resist this, as I throw my d20 into oblivion. Fuck that dice. I didn't need it.
Laura: Do you want one? I have a bag.
Matt: You know, I'll use the big one, then, that Chris Perkins gave me.
Travis: And thus ends Vox Machina.
Matt: DM power. All right, then. This is now Ripley's wisdom saving throw. Hm, okay.
Travis: (laughs) Hm.
Liam: Interesting, interesting.
Laura: Does that dice go to dice jail?
Matt: No. As you sit down and focus, you take the small object in your hand and concentrate with the notes in front of you, and you find that thread of connection between your memory of Ripley, as fuzzy in some places as it is, you have a very clear image of the moments you guys met in Whitestone. The notes, you connect those threads, focus on the object, and then you guys watch as Keyleth's eyes dart open once again, clouded over and white. Your vision pierces above. You can see your consciousness thrust through the clouds, white clouds passing by, passing by, and then your vision comes back down through the clouds, only instead of the desert, instead of the mountains, instead of anything in the nearby area, it's just ocean. Just ocean.
Laura: She's fucking finding another one.
Matt: Waves seem endless around you.
Marisha: Oh no.
Matt: You emerge once more, your vision moving before, only now there's a torrential rain surrounding you, lightning, thunder clapping. You are in the center of a very, very heavy storm that is tearing across this ocean expanse. A boat creaks, ropes swing, and you hear voices yell. A crew barely holding it together. Standing on the deck, hooded, you see Ripley, calm, and looking out into the horizon. She smiles from beneath her dark leather cloak, a shimmer of blue energy dimly crackling across its inner lining. A voice yells, "Nothing yet!" And her eyes dart up to the crow's nest, then back down to her weapon, a handheld firearm of slick design, but familiar function. Six barrels.
Liam: Oh, snap.
Matt: Lightning flashes once more in the distance, followed by a very, very nearby crack of thunder. The boat lists for a second as a wave passes under it, and it catches itself again. She runs to the deck to look out across the crashing waves, and the vision fades back.
Liam: That was magical.
Travis: That was hot. That was hot.
Sam: Is there any ocean in town?
Marisha: Bitch! She is a-- I grab the gun-- you are a piece of shit!
Laura: I thought the gun was under the bed with Trinket.
Taliesin: You've literally just grabbed my hand and are yelling into it.
Marisha: I'm sorry, I'm still a little fuzzy when I come out of it.
Sam: Make gun fingers, at least.
Liam: What's the matter, what's the matter? What did you see?
Marisha: She's going after the other one, she's in the middle of the fucking ocean.
Sam: So she's going for the other Vestige. Whisper? Is that what's in the ocean?
Laura: Whisper's in the ocean. The dagger. Fuck.
Marisha: And she had the cloak.
Sam: And she knows everything that we know.
Taliesin: Do you know where she is?
Marisha: She's with a crew in the middle of the ocean, so--
Laura: Can we instantly be in the middle of the ocean with her?
Marisha: I can't get us there. There's no trees in the middle of the ocean.
Taliesin: She's heading for an island, though.
Laura: Is she?
Liam: I thought it was beneath the waves.
Sam: It's in the Ozmit Sea.
Liam: Yeah, beneath the Ozmit Sea.
Marisha: Scanlan, can you get us there?
Sam: I can make us all cows. That is about it.
Marisha: I mean, I can mist us.
Laura: Mist into the ocean?
Marisha: We could mist there, but it would take...
Sam: (clears throat) Whisper, blade forged from metal pulled from the Far Realm, was center to many dark rituals. Now it lies at the bottom of the Ozmit Sea, sunken with the lost ship The Shrew in a storm 300 years ago, near an island... of trees. No, it's an island of grass. There's no trees on the island.
Marisha: No, it's not even an island of grass, it's an island of glass.
Sam: Oh, glass! I can't read! (laughs)
Taliesin: An island of glass trees.
Sam: An island of grass.
Liam: Ah, boy.
Sam: Island of glass?
Marisha: Yeah, which doesn't sound promising, to be totally honest. So we might have to mist there.
Liam: How far away is--
Sam: It's continents, it would take weeks.
Travis: Don't they have an airship here?
Marisha: Wait, the Water Ashari are in the Ozmit?
Matt: They're in the Ozmit Sea, yes.
Marisha: Do I know if they would be close by this island of glass?
Matt: I'm going to go ahead and have... let's see. Scanlan, roll a history check? And if you could roll an intelligence check.
Marisha: Why is it always intelligence?
Sam: I've got a 15 history.
Marisha: Oh my god. I rolled a natural one.
Matt: You know it's in the Ozmit Sea, but you've never been there, you don't know where it is, you have no idea what the actual space is there.
Marisha: We don't communicate.
Matt: You. Island of glass, and after thinking about it hard, you're like, of course, it's the Isle of Glintshore.
Laura: Of course.
Matt: It's part of a cluster of islands. You don't know quite where it is, but you know of it. That's about all the information you have on it at the moment. You don't know how far, the specific direction really.
Sam: Well, it doesn't look like we can just magically get to her.
Travis: Ooh, ooh.
Laura: Yes, Grog?
Travis: Aren't you two dweebs always wanting to steal an airship?
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: Don't they have one here?
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: So... Do I have to say the third thing, or are you going to get there?
Sam: I would like to steal that airship, but even then, though, it would take us a week.
Taliesin: It would take way too much time. We are on a schedule.
Travis: What? Road trip, bitches. Come on. We got to like, you know--
Sam: Okay, let's game this out. What's the worse-case scenario? She has one Vestige. She may have two.
Liam: What's left after that?
Marisha: I mean, we could let her do the hard work for us.
Liam: She has the cloak, that we know of. She's on top of the dagger almost.
Sam: The Spire of Conflux, in the Abyssal Plane. And the Plate of Dawnmartyr in the Elemental Plane of Fire. I mean, those are going to be super hard to find, even for her.
Liam: I know, but if we're in an arms race and she's on top of another, maybe we should head to the next that's out of her reach now.
Travis: That makes sense.
Marisha: The staff is in the plane of the Abyss.
Laura: That's a very scary place.
Travis: The only problem with that is she only has one now and if she has two, she might be a bit harder--
Laura: Especially, imagine if one of us was wearing all of the Vestiges.
Sam: She has people working for her, clearly.
Laura: She's not going to give it up.
Sam: No, but I mean it won't be her alone.
Liam: And we're not going to get there in time to stop her from getting that dagger.
Taliesin: But we might be able to take them from her and perhaps even finally put her down before she puts more of those bloody things into the world.
Marisha: Can I also ask another question, Percy?
Taliesin: Sure.
Marisha: Why does she want these Vestiges in the first place? I have a feeling she doesn't want to fight dragons.
Sam: She might want to join up with the dragons.
Marisha: Do you know?
Taliesin: I don't--
Liam: I mean, there's many reasons to amass power.
Laura: Could she be the one letting the dragons know about-- could she be the spy?
Taliesin: I spent less than a week in her company in my life. I know very little about her other than-- I spent a week in her company and I spent I don't know how much time trying to track her down and all I really know is she's very smart and she is the worst person I've ever met.
Marisha: Why would you say that exactly? Because we've met a lot of terrible people.
Sam: Kevdak.
Taliesin: People don't frighten me.
Marisha: Their dad.
Taliesin: He doesn't frighten me.
Marisha: Saundor was pretty shitty. Clarota.
Sam: Well, let's not rank the bad people we've met.
Taliesin: I don't even know if she wants anything. Maybe she wants nothing.
Travis: Are you genuinely afraid of her?
Taliesin: Yes, very much so.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: Fuck, why didn't we kill her when we had her in our--
Sam: She got away. We tried.
Taliesin: I made a terrible trade. I made the wrong trade and I made a terrible decision. I know that. (laughter)
Taliesin: The table on the left is completely incapable--
Travis: The player on your right--
Liam: A little mug interference.
Taliesin: Let me get this enchantment off my gun. Let's find somebody who can pull it off and put it onto something else and leave it here. And then let's run screaming to this island and see if we can catch her and if she's not there, we spend 24 hours where I will recount every desperate attempt I have made to try and kill her in the last few years of my life and then we head back and deal with the other monstrosities that are waiting for us back home.
Sam: I don't know that we'll get there in time.
Liam: How do we get there?
Marisha: We had to fly across the Ozmit Sea to get to Marquet.
Matt: It took you about a week to get to Vasselheim via skyship from Emon and that's normally a two-and-a-half week journey by boat. You guys got to Marquet via your Transport Via Plants. Oh no, sorry, you got to Marquet via the Teleportation Circle that--
Marisha: Gilmore made for us.
Laura: Are we by the ocean at all?
Marisha: But the ocean's above us, right?
Matt: You have a mountain range that is at the top, the northern part of the desert, probably a day and a half of foot travel and the mountain range, you're not sure how big that is. From what you know of loose geography-- Scanlan, you probably know this better than anybody-- that Ank'Harel and this part of the desert is not too far from the northern shore of Marquet, compared to the rest of it. The entire continent is like a big U and this is the Ozmit Sea up here. This is Marquet. Ank'Harel's right there and then this is the ocean.
Laura: Can Misty Step travel faster than a boat?
Matt: Of an ocean boat? Yes, probably twice as fast.
Laura: So if it took her a week to get where she is now, we could probably get there--
Taliesin: In three days. But where do you rest in the--
Sam: Yes. We'd have to rest in order to do Misty Step--
Liam: If your magic runs out while we're flying over the ocean, what happens, we drown?
Laura: We don't necessarily drown immediately.
Taliesin: Also, if we can find a way to teleport to the island, if there's a way that we can.
Liam: But how?
Sam: We have one teleportation circle.
Marisha: I mean, I could teleport us--
Liam: You have to have a circle to a circle.
Marisha: I could teleport us to the edge of the continent, we could sleep, and then Misty Step lasts eight hours.
Matt: Yeah. Wind Walk, you mean?
Marisha: Wind Walk, whatever.
Matt: It's a different spell, but yeah. It's 30 feet.
Liam: That wouldn't do it.
Matt: Little different.
Marisha: Wind Walk lasts eight hours.
Sam: She's on a boat. She's not on a magic boat. She can't magically get back to the shore without sailing there. If we sail out on an airship or a boat--
Laura: We could bomb her!
Sam: Well yes! She's slow moving, she's on a boat, it'll take her days to get wherever she's going, we need to find her, and we can keep scrying on the airship, and catch up to her slowly, she's a slow moving target, even after she--
Liam: I like that you're assuming we'll have an airship.
Sam: We don't right now, but we will soon.
Marisha: It could take us a while to even get the airship.
Sam: Nope. One day. Me and Percy. Maybe two hours.
Travis: I actually agree with that strategy. It is a bit like fish in a barrel because she is limited by her speed.
Laura: Will we be able to find her in the middle of the ocean?
Sam: We can keep scrying from the airship.
Liam: That's true.
Taliesin: We can keep scrying.
Taliesin: The first thing we have to do is remove this enchantment and I'm very open to ideas on how to do that.
Travis: Wait, but play it out. How do we see where she is in comparison to a giant body of water?
Sam: Well, we use what sailors do.
Travis: Look up at the stars?
Sam: Up at the stars, right? We scry at night.
Travis: We're looking at her, right, not up, can we, like, go like that--
Laura: No, you can scry up, yeah.
Matt: Focused around the target of the scrying.
Liam: Are either of you gentlemen smart enough to do that?
Marisha: We can't tilt the camera up a little bit?
Matt: No. You can, but you'll see a blurred skyline--
Sam: We can listen for clues. Maybe the crew members will shout out a, "Oh, we're at longitude blah blah blah latitude blah blah blah!"
Matt: For you, when you scry on something, imagine it, like, super high depth of field, so like what you're looking at is super in-focus and most everything else is very blurred and out of focus.
Sam: Okay, wait, to play this out a bit more  we know where she's going. We know where Glintshore is roughly if we got a local--
Liam: Do you know where that island is?
Sam: Well we can find a local who does. A sailor or something who can help us navigate our way there.
Laura: Maybe somebody in an airship.
Travis: We could, but we might just be chasing, as long as we're all right with that. We'll just be chasing.
Laura: We'll keep scrying until we see if she's found it.
Taliesin: Until we see a tree.
Travis: Vax does have a point, though. If we're just chasing, we could get the jump on other ones.
Taliesin: Here's the terrifying notion  if you see a tree in any of your scries, can you teleport to it?
Marisha: Yes, I can.
Taliesin: So as long as she gets next to a tree--
Sam: I don't think she's getting next to a tree.
Marisha: She's in the middle of the ocean.
Taliesin: Once she's on the island, if the island has a tree...
Laura: It's possible.
Liam: It's possible.
Sam: It was near. It was near the island of glass.
Taliesin: We're going to be looking for her. That's where I would set up shop if I were--
Liam: I mean, Percival is correct, the first thing we have to do is get that gun unfucked, but then after we have to decide if we are chasing her down-- and it seems 50-50 to me, not impossible, but not a sure thing at all-- or do we head to the next Vestige to keep it out of her hands?
Laura: Into the Plane of Abyss?
Liam: Well isn't that where we have to go anyway?
Travis: Let's get the gun unfucked, and we'll simmer on it.
Sam: Wait, before we get the gun unfucked, is there any use to it being fucked? Like, can we have play-acting conversations around it like "Oh, this is where we should go next, hope you're listening!"
Taliesin: That is deeply assuming that it actually conveys sound, which it may not.
Marisha: Yeah, we have no idea what it actually is, let's go get it.
Taliesin: Yeah, we're going to have to move that enchantment onto something else.
Sam: We can go to that place where-- back to the asshole.
Taliesin: I know what he wants, no.
Sam: What does he want?
Laura: He wants whitestone.
Sam: So give him whitestone.
Taliesin: Absolutely not.
Marisha: He's going to take one really close look at that gun and see a lot of whitestone in it.
Travis: I got two chunks of whitestone in the Bag of Holding.
Taliesin: He wants the green gems, and I'm not prepared to make that deal.
Sam: We can make him a fake one and give it to him for one favor. We can make a fake gem, how hard is that?
Laura: He's going to know.
Travis: I got a bunch of gems in the Bag of Holding.
Taliesin: It's not going to work.
Laura: Do you have green gems?
Travis: Gems, lots of gems.
Laura: No, but the green gems from Whitestone?
Liam: Whitestone is much further away from the Ozmit Sea than where we are now, right?
Matt: Whitestone is much further away, yes.
Liam: Way, way, other side of the continent right?
Matt: Across a vast ocean, and then across the continent.
Sam: One thing that occurred to me, that may not help us at all. Mistress Asharru, the dead girl: she was part of an organization?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: Maybe they would want to help us because of revenge?
Taliesin: Here's the question, and this is what I've been thinking about sitting here for the last few minutes, is either way this is terrible: either we don't tell them and leave town and eventually they find her and she's got strange holes in her from some strange thing that could possibly be a thing that a man with white hair who breezed through town a week ago was holding, or we go and tell them, and I cannot believe this is about to come out of my mouth, that it wasn't me, it was a one armed woman, who had--
Sam: A fugitive?
Taliesin: An identical, thank you, weapon, of this one of a kind weapon that no one bloody saw.
Laura: No, but here's the thing, maybe somebody did see her.
Taliesin: Maybe somebody did see her, and maybe they'll know where to get the gun.
Marisha: Even if they did see her, we know she knows how to alter her appearance. Also, no offense Percy, but I feel like we need to be careful on who you expose that gun to, from here on out.
Taliesin: I am keenly aware.
Marisha: Not only, one, for people who might think you're the culprit, but two, for people who are going to want to rip you off again.
Taliesin: She's the only person who's ever gotten a good look at it. She's the only one.
Sam: So other than chasing her, going for the next Vestige on the list, the third option is wish her good luck and continue on with our mission ignoring the fact that she exists.
Marisha: Maybe she'll die in the Ozmit Sea.
Taliesin: She won't.
Liam: How long's it been since we left Draconia?
Matt: Five days?
Laura: Not five days?!
Matt: From your travel from Draconia, back to Whitestone, to resting in Whitestone, heading from there to the southern city, then travelling from there to Ank'Harel, then you've had--
Taliesin: A lot of that was instantaneous. We did camp three or four days--
Matt: Well no, yeah about four or five days because you travelled then from Whitestone to south of Ank'Harel, then you wind walked to Ank'Harel, but then camped outside of Ank'Harel, because the time you got there was night, then you made it into the city, then you stayed for the evening, you slept again and the next night you went ahead and went into the casino, then slept the night there, so yeah, it's been about five days.
Marisha: Is it like a flying from east to west thing where we gain back a day when we go back?
Matt: No.
Laura: But we don't have to fly, we just have to teleport there.
Taliesin: So long as we teleport we're fine.
Laura: But we don't have a plan. We have five days to figure out how to fucking kill a dragon. Oh Jesus.
Marisha: And we didn't get the Vestige we came here for, so--
Taliesin: No we did not, in fact, it's worse.
Matt: Well two weeks was the agreement, so you have more than five. Nine.
Liam: You can do anything in nine days.
Travis: We don't even have to keep the agreement, come on.
Laura: Potentially.
Travis: Just saying. We getting the gun un-fucked or what?
Taliesin: Let's go downstairs and talk to her employer.
Laura: Treev?
Matt: Treev, yes. All right.
Taliesin: I'm going to leave the gun upstairs still.
Marisha: Wait, what? Don't we need it to tap the gun to--
Sam: Well we got to find out who's going to un-fuck it.
Laura: Is Treev downstairs?
Matt: All right, you head down into the tavern, and at this time of day it's a little empty, a little sparse, maybe like, four patrons. Two in discussions, one that's deep in the cups and one in the midst of going through paperwork and in the far back you see Treev once again has his heavy spectacles on and is currently looking through that same book he was before, doesn't seem to pay any mind to you until you approach him.
Laura: Treev?
Matt: "Oh, aye, good to see you. What can I do for you?"
Laura: We need to talk to you. It's rather urgent.
Matt: "Then talk to me." Puts his book away, glasses on it, leans forward.
Taliesin: There's been a complication. The mistress is-- she's been assassinated.
Marisha: We hadn't heard anything in these past few days, we decided to pay her a call.
Matt: He leans forward a little bit on the bar. Vex, Vax and Keyleth. You notice that the hooded figure, that originally delivered the note, is back in the far corner, where it was and it seems to have stepped a couple inches out of the shadows as well, paying very close attention to this conversation.
Taliesin: Did we bring the note with us? Good.
Matt: Goes, "So you are saying that the mistress was assassinated?"
Taliesin: And the cloak stolen.
Matt: "Cloak?"
Taliesin: The cloak she wore.
Matt: "And you know this how?"
Laura: We found her body.
Matt: "Where?"
Laura: In her home.
Sam: Don't think that was her home.
Marisha: In her hideout.
Taliesin: In her room beneath the house.
Matt: "How do you know where she lived?"
Taliesin: We are very clever. But not clever enough to stop this. This appears to have happened possibly before we even-- we don't know when it happened. It happened a while ago.
Laura: About a week ago. I think.
Matt: Percy, make a persuasion check.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: Okay. Treev puts one hand out on the bar, he's got a big heavy coin in it, he's nervously tapping it. (few knocks on wood)
Taliesin: We think we know who did it. In fact, we are near positive we know who did it.
Matt: You hear (door closing) as the door of the tavern closes and all the patrons you saw are now standing up completely sober and they're all taking a circle to the outside of your group. He's leaning forward, going, "All right, so you're clever. You came looking for the mistress, she suddenly winds up dead. You found her body."
Taliesin: And we tell you this as opposed to leaving.
Laura: We had nothing to do with it. We could've left town.
Marisha: Clearly we know how this looks, which is why we came to you first.
Taliesin: We are desperate in finding who did this.
Liam: What's the hooded figure doing right now?
Matt: Still sitting in the back of that shadowed alcove between a bunch of barrels that are stacked and part of the bar side.
Liam: I'm going to keep focused there.
Travis: Is he still tapping the coin?
Matt: No, the coin tapping has stopped.
Marisha: And what are the people around us doing? Are they, like, drawing their weapons?
Matt: No.
Marisha: Do they seem armed?
Matt: Do you take a look around?
Marisha: I want to just glance.
Travis: I take a very blatant look around.
Matt: Okay. None of them appear to be armed, but they're all looking very closely upon you. You can make a perception check, Keyleth and Grog, if you'd like.
Travis: 13.
Marisha: Not bad.
Travis: There is a ceiling.
Marisha: Straight perception? 25.
Matt: Okay. Yeah, you see them staring. They look pretty normal.
Travis: They look pretty.
Matt: You do notice, what you didn't quite notice before, when you first entered, but a lot of these tables have like small cubbies on the edges, and each one of them are standing very close to one. One you see a little bit of a pommel that is barely poking out and they're all at the ready. This tavern definitely is-- Mercenary band uses this tavern as their base of operation and has definitely seemingly outfitted it to be functionally good place for mercenaries when they need to be.
Marisha: I look down in front of me. Is there any hidden cubbies in the table that we are at?
Matt: That you are at?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: You have to get down to really inspect. You want to do that?
Marisha: No.
Matt: Okay. At initial glance you don't see anything, because everything is close to you, it's from a top-down perspective and you're blocked from seeing anything beneath.
Taliesin: For what it's worth, we will not draw first. We want to find her. Have any of your people seen a woman with one metal arm? She's so dangerous and now so much more dangerous.
Matt: He goes ahead and puts his finger up this way and marks this direction. The figure that you're watching, Vax, steps out from the shadow and walks very calmly across the room, through all of you right to the edge of the bar by the door and goes-- not breaking eye contact with you, speaks out of the side of his mouth, Treev goes, "Go ahead and check their story. See her abode. We're all going to wait here nice and patiently together until we figure out what the fuck is going on."
Travis: Makes sense. Do you have any mead?
Matt: "We got mead."
Taliesin: In the meantime, I'd like to at least to start to tell you what we need next, for when our story is confirmed.
Matt: "Well, you've certainly got a captive audience, so go ahead."
Taliesin: This woman has been tracking us. She placed a mystical tracker upon us at some point. We've just discovered it and we need to find a way to move it away and put it somewhere she does not suspect that we know that she placed it and does not see us coming when it's time for us to kill her.
Matt: "So you're saying this woman that you're chasing is the one that killed the mistress?"
Taliesin: Yes. We believe so.
Laura: Your mistress has-- had a very powerful item on her. It's why we sought her out as well.
Matt: "More so blinded-sided at the idea that the mistress was felled by someone. She could take care of herself and has for quite some time."
Laura: From what I could see, her attackers were not alone. There were five of them.
Liam: They had an unfair advantage.
Matt: "Five of them and a woman, you say?" His eyes narrow for a second. "Describe this woman."
Sam: She disguises her appearance, so how we know her might not be how you have seen her. She has sometimes shown herself as an old woman.
Matt: "Old woman?" And he starts describing. "Sort of a spindly gray-blonde hair, tumbles past the shoulders, piercing blue-ish green eyes."
Taliesin: Always piercing eyes.
Sam: Did she come through here?
Matt: "She was the last one to hire the mistress. About a week before you came."
Taliesin: (sighs heavily)
Sam: What was the job?
Matt: "I don't know."
Sam: And she had some fellows traveling with her?
Matt: "She had five individuals following her, aye."
Marisha: What did they look like?
Matt: "Didn't get the best good look. Kept it very hush-hush between me and the lady at the table. Rest of them stayed at the back of the bar. Then they went on their business."
Sam: Where were they staying?
Matt: "Here."
Sam: In our rooms?
Matt: "Aye."
Sam: That gives me the heebie-jeebies.
Taliesin: That does not make me feel good. She is so dangerous.
Marisha: How was she a full week ahead of us?
Laura: Oh shit. Treev--
Sam: Because we went to Draconia.
Laura: I put Dust of Tracelessness on the ground. In her home.
Matt: "What's that mean?"
Taliesin: It's going to obfuscate any of the scuffle. They're only going to find a body with holes in it.
Matt: "So you're telling me that you came in here with a story about a murder of one of my finest mercs."
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "And you decided upon finding this murder to get rid of all the evidence of said murder and anything that could possibly point to you not being the murderers."
Taliesin: I did point this out to everybody before we came down here, but at the moment we were a little bit thrown by the dead woman.
Matt: "I'm not going to lie, I mean as far as--"
Liam: Why would we come directly to you if that were the case? Why wouldn't we have not just left?
Laura: Plus, you know what?
Taliesin: They will be able to tell the body is at least a week old.
Laura: Exactly. Your man has seen a dead body before. He's going to be able to tell that it's been there for a while.
Marisha: I'm sure you have a cleric in the circle. Talk to her firsthand if you have to.
Liam: I'm curious if you can imagine a reason why we would come to you with this rather than sneak away in the night.
Travis: Yeah, I'm just curious how much the mead is?
Matt: "On the house." He reaches under the bar and pulls up one thick, dark, red ceramic bottle. Cap's already off. He's plucked it off with his thumb and sets it in front of you.
Travis: My thanks.
Taliesin: I'm so sorry.
Matt: "Guess it's possibly one of the major setbacks of this line of business. Very few grow too old and gray and get to die happy in their beds. God knows I wasn't planning to." There's a long, awkward pause interspersed with bits of conversation for about 15 minutes before the hooded figure returns, enters the door, comes over and whispers for a good solid minute in the ear of Treev, before stepping back and calmly walking back to its corner. Treev sits up. "Well, parts of your story certainly hold up. The body has been there for a while, at least from before I saw you. Mind you, I don't know when you came into town. We only met a few days ago."
Taliesin: If we were smart enough to take care of her and smart enough to pull all of this off, this would be a ridiculous move.
Laura: (laughs) That we would come to hire her after we had already--
Marisha: Killed her?
Taliesin: I would beg you to explain why we're having this conversation.
Matt: "Oh, believe me. A lot of you doesn't make sense, period. So I'm just trying to figure it all out." And he rubs the end of his long draconian snout.
Taliesin: The woman in question helped murder my entire family, took great pleasure and delight in it. I have been tracking her for years.
Matt: "What you plan to do when you find her, then?"
Taliesin: Kill her. That's all. I've lost my taste for anything beyond that, but she is dangerous and she is evil.
Liam: In this moment, everyone in this room wants the same thing.
Marisha: We didn't come to you because we necessarily needed to go through the proper channels, we did it because we were trying to be forthcoming. Clearly you are all a talented bunch, so are we.
Taliesin: My feelings for her have become very complex. I don't care who kills her at this point. She just needs to be removed from the earth.
Matt: "Which one of you is your dealmaker?"
Liam: I boot Scanlan forward on the tush.
Sam: Hello, hi.
Matt: "This one?"
Sam: I make the best deals, I know the best words.
Matt: "This one?"
Sam: Sometimes it's Vex, but many times it's me.
Matt: He leans over the bar and gets real close up to you, and takes a moment to (sniffs). "Aye, you smell like trouble. I like that." Make a persuasion check.
Sam: What am I persuading him to do?
Matt: This is your essence of presence and telling him that you're the kind of person that--
Sam: Oh, my general charm?
Matt: Your general charm.
Taliesin: I don't know what he's wearing, but it's very nice.
Sam: Persuasion, you say? 29.
Matt: "How is this for a deal? I got a nice fine look at your faces, I got friends all across these lands. If what you say is true, you go. We let you leave. You find this murdering bitch, you kill her. I want one thing, her good hand. I think that would be vengeance enough for the mistress."
Marisha: I mean, we don't have any use for it.
Taliesin: I feel very good about that deal.
Liam: Good terms.
Matt: "Not talking to you. I'm talking to you."
Sam: That's lovely, but we can't find her without some assistance.
Matt: "Well, you've come to the right place. What assistance do I have to give you, what do you need?"
Sam: We need to get this curse off of the thing that found your assassin.
Matt: "Can't really help you with that, sorry, mate."
Sam: Don't have any magic wielders among you?
Matt: "We've got scattered mercs throughout the city, aye, but they work for coin, and half of them are busy in other jobs."
Liam: We have coin.
Matt: "How much you got?"
Liam: What do we got?
Travis: Enough.
Taliesin: Let us know what it takes. Money is money and we have a long way to go and a lot to deal with, but we are happy to pay for the work that is done.
Matt: "All right. I can call someone in."
Sam: We also may need some naval assistance--
Laura: Specifically an airship of sorts--
Taliesin: Or transportation, she's heading, she's on a boat, she's heading north to the island of--
Travis: Glintshore.
Marisha: Or, you know, even if you know of any trees, big trees.
Matt: He goes "Hmm. Ships, no, not much in the way of ships here in the middle of a desert, you're looking for them sky-buggers. Looking for a ship like that for seafaring types you're going to want to go past the Agrin Mountains, then make your way towards the Bay of Gifts."
Marisha: Bay of Gifts.
Taliesin: Bay of Gifts.
Matt: "That's where you'll find the port town of Shamal."
Marisha: Port town of Shamal?
Matt: "Shamal. The mountain range is vast in itself, you're looking at, oh, at least a week on foot to try and traverse those mountains."
Liam: Did you say Bay of Gifs?
Sam: Bay of Jifs, it's pronounced.
Matt: "I'm going to fucking fuck you." (laughter)
Taliesin: It's a local joke, I'm so sorry.
Marisha: The port of Shamal?
Sam: There is a skyport near here, is that true?
Matt: "Aye, it's over by the--"
Sam: Controlled by the local government?
Matt: "There's no one fucking controls the skyport."
Taliesin: We're not asking you, we have other friends as well.
Matt: "Well, if you're looking for speed, it's probably your best bet. Ships on this ocean, let's say the weather's not usually handy."
Taliesin: We are looking for speed, and a crazy captain.
Matt: "Well, wish you the best of luck."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: "Now, go! Kill her. Give me her hand. I figure if time goes by and I haven't heard from you, you've either died or I'll be sending some of our mercs to come find you."
Liam: Yeah, but the magic thing with the gun.
Sam: How long would it take to get this person who can remove a curse?
Taliesin: Or if you were going to go do something like this, who would you find in town?
Matt: "If you're looking for fast, speedy, and immediate assistance with this, well, that's going to have to run the cost up a bit, see. We have quite an enchanter that could probably help you with that."
Laura: Oh really?
Matt: "Aye. See if in the next hour I could bring him in, but it'll run you, full disillusion or whatever you need, 750 gold."
Taliesin: Not full disillusion, how about a transference?
Matt: "Transference--"
Taliesin: To move the enchantment to another object.
Matt: "Well, takes--"
Laura: It's a much easier enchantment.
Matt: "Moving something takes a little bit longer than to just get rid of something."
Taliesin: How much longer?
Matt: "I dunno, not one of them types. But I mean, we've had a couple of enchantments moved in the past, and that was anywhere from a few days to a few weeks, get that done."
Marisha: Why don't we call them in and have them look at it?
Matt: "All right."
Sam: 750? Do we have that to spare?
Travis: Yes.
Taliesin: That's worth its weight.
Matt: "750."
Laura: 750, or if you have a need of gems, we have gems.
Liam: You don't get fast and cheap.
Taliesin: I know.
Sam: Are you a gem lover?
Matt: "I carry a bit of jewelry on occasion."
Sam: I like you. What do we have?
Laura: So many things. You should call your enchanter.
Matt: "All right," and he goes ahead and pulls out a small tome of blank sheets, many you see have been torn out, and he makes a quick note on one, rolls it up very simply, doesn't do the usual rigmarole of an official writ, but hands it to the masked hooded figure in the corner who walks out and darts off. "Kyme'll be here in a hour."
Laura: An hour.
Sam: Kine?
Matt: "Kyme."
Laura: Kynan?
Liam: Sorry, that rang a bell. Sorry.
Matt: "Payment?"
Laura: Payment?
Sam: Up front? Wow.
Laura: But we don't even know what he's doing yet.
Matt: "Do you trust in my service?"
Laura: Of course, I don't know what we're going to have him do, that's all.
Matt: "Well if you'd much rather, we could go ahead and clean out your guts here in the floor, wouldn't be the first time I had to swab the floors here."
Laura: How about these two beautiful sapphires? They're quite lovely.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: And-- and I pull out a giant raw ruby as well.
Matt: He knocks the countertop and gestures for you to put them down. He looks over at one of the guys in the bar. They've all relaxed a bit now, two of them have sat down. One of them approaches; human, a little scruffy, looks like he's a little ill to be honest, like he's probably not had a good week of food. He, however, walks up and fumbles through a small pouch and pulls out a small jeweler's eyepiece and takes them up and inspects each of them independently. How much are they worth?
Laura: 200 each for the sapphires, and the ruby is 150.
Sam: Jesus, Laura.
Laura: It's only a hundred gold short!
Matt: "I'd take it." Sits back down. "Very well, debt is paid." Takes the gems, pops them in his little side pouch. Do you guys wait for the hour?
Taliesin: I was going to say, if somebody wants to go booking passage on an airship, my personal feeling is that Grog and Scanlan would be the people to send on such an adventure.
Sam: Grog? I mean, yes, Grog would be good at that, yes, let's do that.
Taliesin: I'm only saying Grog because then they know what they're getting into.
Sam: I like that idea.
Travis: Are you trying to get me out of the room?
Taliesin: No! Well, yes. Would you rather sit for an hour in here or would you rather go outside and talk to somebody about a giant flying boat?
Travis: The last one.
Liam: Perfect, it's like Hannibal and Mr. T, together, that's what you want.
Taliesin: I don't know, that's my opinion, personally, unless anybody else--
Travis: Just call me Baracus, let's go.
Sam: All right, we'll go.
Taliesin: Our friends are going to arrange travel for us, the rest of us are going to stay here, is that appropriate?
Matt: "Certainly. Sit, I'll get you some food." So is it going to be just you two?
Sam: I guess we're going to go try to find an airship.
Travis: Yeah, Twins! Schwarzenegger and DeVito, at it again! (laughter)
Taliesin: Julius, my god!
Sam: Which one's which?
Liam: Vincent, you are my twin.
Taliesin: I'm pregnant, Vincent. Oh, wrong one, sorry. I always thought it was the same guy. In my head. It's a sequel.
Matt: All right, so, as the rest of you guys stay behind you get a fair meal, the two of you begin making your way through Ank'Harel. You're making your way over towards the edge of the Suncut Bazaar towards the Sand Herald district right on that cusp there is where you saw the skyport in the distance. Go ahead and make an investigation check. You can make one as well, Grog.
Sam: 25.
Travis: 17!
Matt: All right. Where normally it would be confusing to find where the base of it is as it is obfuscated by a series of other larger buildings, you guys ask a couple of folks rather quickly that know the layout of the town really well, and with enough of a flash of a smile and a flash of a really intense arm muscle, within the next 30 minutes or so find yourself at the base of the actual skyport. It is called the Indala Skyport.
Sam: (sings) Indala.
Matt: Not as tall as the one in Emon which lays on the outskirts of the Cloudtop District, but it appears to be on the level, it's maybe a good five stories up. The outside of it is a similar chain lifted platform as the tower at the Cerulean Palace that you guys traversed earlier in your time in Ank'Harel. There is a large stone scaffold with no walls, sitting there on the ground. As you approach, there are two people dressed in simple clothing, you see some dust and dirt on their hands, they're in the midst of moving crates up and down and you see they're moving some barrels off of the platform, putting them up onto a cart that's probably going to be wheeled deeper into the city. As you approach the platform you see one of them is by a bell mechanism, attached to part of the platform, a small block that's about shoulder high, and there's a bell on the end of it with a ringer.
Travis: Wait, before we ring Indala  have you ever rented a skyship before?
Sam: No, I have no idea what we're doing here.
Travis: Oh really?
Sam: I mean, I assume we're trying to find out how much it costs for a seven day rental including a pilot or two?
Travis: So we're doing this like the straight and narrow way.
Sam: We're getting the information, probably come back and steal it.
Travis: Ooh, okay, I'll be quiet, you talk.
Sam: Okay, well, you're pretty good at this too.
Travis: Yeah, well. (singing) Indala, Indala
Liam: Help, help, it's happening.
Taliesin: Help, help, it's actually happening.
Travis: Do you mind if I ring the bell?
Sam: Yeah, go for it.
Travis: Can I ring the fucking shit out of that bell?
Matt: As you step up onto the stone platform both of you, the two guys that are working, the guy keeps putting the barrels, there's like two or three on the side there, and he goes ahead and sets one of the three up, staring at you as you approach. The other guy is to the side, goes, "Can I help you?" As you walk past and turn back and smile and (bell ringing) start ringing the crap out of it. Make a strength check.
Travis: Aww no, oh that's not too bad. 13.
Matt: 13, okay. You have enough control over your physical brawn as to not snap or destroy the bell, however, what happens is after you ring the bell for a few seconds, the guy goes, "Wait, no!" And before anything else happens, the chains that were slack tighten up, and the platform begins to lift up. The guy who had two barrels left on the platform still is like "No, wait!" And goes over and tries to grab one of the barrels as it tumbles off and breaks on the ground next to him. (yelling in Marquesian) and is raising his fists.
Sam: We're on an elevator?
Matt: Yeah, and it's now lifting up and it's about 15-20 feet off the ground and it's going up to the top. The bell seemed to have notified whatever crew is bringing the platform up, but he didn't get a chance to finish bringing his load off the platform before you rung the bell.
Travis: I think we're doing it right.
Sam: I think so.
Matt: As you leave the two gentlemen below, as the two of you lift up on this platform, you make your way up to the elevated terrace that marks the actual skyport and it's a large, wide, thick platform that's built atop a series of warehouses that fill out this district, and this was a newer addition to it as this technology became available. Go ahead and roll a history check.
Sam: Natural 20.
Travis: Wow!
Sam: Love me some airships.
Matt: Actually, skyships originated in Ank'Harel. This is where the crystals that hold them aloft are enchanted. There have been other ships. There are different designs that are constructed in different towns. You do know that there is no skyship transport to Wildemount, and that was part of the reason why the Sovereign Uriel was trying to make that deal with the Briarwoods under the idea that it would open trade with Wildemount. It's pretty insular, locked off from the larger countries here that work together. The skyport here is probably the first skyport that was built and this is the origin of that tech. As you come to the very top of the platform, it eventually stops and you see one gentleman there who's essentially working this large crank that brings the platform up and it has a series of thick chains that wind on themselves. As soon as he finishes and you guys get to the top he turns. "What, yes, what. Hello?"
Travis: Meep-meep!
Sam: Be pleased. We are here to inquire about some business if you don't mind.
Matt: He points that way, and you guys look right, and the rest of this terrace for the record-- there are two skyships that are currently docked here at the moment. One that has a very nice, thick, heavy design, it has beautiful gems encrusted in the side and there's brass and gold inlay that twists into this turquoise transition to the bottom. It's a beautiful ship. You can see there's a crew of about 12, that are currently loading things onto it right now. There's a big, crane-like apparatus similar to what you had in Emon that is currently putting things onto the ship. It looks like it's being heavily loaded for transport somewhere. There's another ship, it looks familiar, it's actually very similar to the Emon designs that you guys saw at the skyports over there that appears to be, by about six heavy chains, locked to the opposite side of this skyport and doesn't seem to have any apparent hustle bustle of crew around. It's a little bit smaller than the more intricate design. The one that has all the work around it does match some of the design aesthetic of some of the higher end areas of Ank'Harel, so that you probably imagine it was one of the original skyships that was built here. The other one you saw has the small fins on the side, similar to the one you rode across to Vasselheim. You do also notice that there are about six Hands of Ord scattered across the terrace in full armor that are basically keeping an eye out and watching everything, making sure that no bullshit goes down. You do see a small building that's in the center of this terrace, that maybe has about three or four different rooms. Apparently, the individual who was overseeing this entire process with the one big ship is walking back and forth between with instructions to the foreman who's yelling out to the crewmen who are loading up this big ship. That'll probably be the place to go to inquire.
Sam: Okay. We go over there.
Matt: All right. As you walk in--
Sam: We die.
Matt: Suffer a horrible stroke and fall to the ground. Scanlan is no more.
Travis: Green dragon unveils herself and we die.
Liam: My barrels! (dragon roaring noise)
Travis: Shit, literally in the last place we would have looked.
Matt: So as you walk into the room, it's fairly quiet. There appears to be a clerk office there with a bunch of ledgers stacked up, and you can see a layout of a number of days with notes scrawled in a language that you don't recognize. There are a couple of small clockwork timepieces that are against the walls there. And you see a younger woman, probably mid-20s, but going gray a little early all on one side of her head, who is currently going through one of these books. She has a quill between her teeth right now, she's thumbing through the pages. Looks up, "Can I help you?" Takes the quill out, sets it down.
Sam: Hello, Be pleased, beep beep. My associate and I would like to inquire about renting an airship.
Matt: "Renting an airship."
Sam: Chartering it for a trip.
Matt: "Okay, well for now, let's see. Ship Vusin is already chartered and is loading up to be heading northward towards Issylra. That is not available. The other one which is the Deera has been docked for about four weeks without use. So you could go inquire with the captain there."
Sam: Is that the crappier one or the better one? MATT It's the smaller one.
Sam: Okay, so we would charter from the captain themself, not from you?
Matt: "Well the captain would pay us a cut based on what the destination is."
Sam: So I can do my homework, how much do you think a week's charter would run on an airship?
Matt: "That is for you to negotiate with the captain."
Travis: Yes, is there any way to book passage on the ship that's already moving northward?
Sam: As passengers.
Matt: "That is not a passenger-based ship, unfortunately that is actually working for one of the guilds. It is paid for use of their mercantile only."
Sam: Okay.
Travis: How fast is that smaller ship?
Matt: "Unloaded, pretty quick. The cargo can load down ships."
Travis: Hmm, yes.
Matt: "Depends on how fast you wish to go and where you are going. May I ask where you are planning to charter this to?"
Sam: Our mission is a bit of a hush-hush one, we better not disclose that.
Travis: Yeah, we are going to an ocean.
Matt: "Perhaps it is best that we negotiate the price here than as opposed to with the captain."
Sam: Yes, that would be preferable for sure.
Travis: Wait, why? Who's the captain?
Matt: She stands up and walks over to one of the small windows that leads out to the terrace and you can see another bell that's out there and she grabs the edge (bell ringing) on the bell, goes back to her seat. "I'm calling the captain, he'll be here." A few minutes pass, in the distance out the window you can see a small rope ladder drops, and a figure makes their way over and walks in. Inside, in gold-trimmed armor is a familiar sight, this is Captain Damon, the guy who actually brought you guys across the Ozmit Sea.
Sam: It's our guy! Damon!
Marisha: Are there not that many pilots in the world?
Matt: There aren't a lot of skyships. You would know, there's probably six in commission.
Sam: How fast did this one make the Kessel Run?
Matt: It was a week across the entire Ozmit Sea, that was with some cargo on board, so it wasn't very slow. It would have taken a normal ship two and a half weeks.
Sam: Does Damon recognize us?
Matt: As he walks in he goes "Yes, are we ready to--"
Marisha: Wyverns attacked us!
Liam: (whispering) We're not there.
Marisha: I'm not there at all!
Travis: What did you end up drinking in that damn tavern?
Sam: Captain Damon! Hello.
Matt: "Wait, I know you."
Sam: Yes, we've flown together before. On the friendly skies.
Matt: "Yes, that was a dangerous journey."
Sam: It was, and would have been more dangerous had we not been there. To protect you and your ship.
Matt: "Indeed. We appreciate that. What can I do for you?" And he looks over towards the clerk who goes, "They are looking to charter a ship northward. I know nothing else more, but I figured the confusion here would allow us at least both to discuss this so we can negotiate the proper price. So you talk, I'll be here to keep record." And she opens a fresh page in her tome, dips her quill--
Travis: Mmm. Ledgers.
Sam: Oh, maybe we don't want any of this on the record for right now.
Matt: "Okay. Remember that for the negotiation."
Sam: Oh shit.
Matt: Captain winks at her. "All right, so, we're very busy, our books are full and we have a few other individuals that are currently seeking use of our ship. So what is it you need, where are you going and for how long?"
Sam: This would be a week or less for the mission.
Travis: Looking to leave quite soon.
Sam: Maybe even tomorrow morning.
Matt: "All right."
Sam: We'd be going north. Correct?
Travis: Yes.
Sam: Into the Ozmit Sea, and to a location that we would disclose to you once we get airborne.
Matt: You hear a voice in the back, "Also consider that in the negotiation."
Sam: But also consider this. We are on a mission that's very important to the security of both Marquet and other continents, and we have friends in high places. And I will flash our little badge.
Travis: Yes!
Sam: The badge that J'Mon Sa Ord gave us.
Liam: Not your fake little star from pre-show?
Matt: He looks down and he goes, "That looks very pretty."
Travis: Oh, this is given from J'mon Sa Ord.
Matt: "I don't know who that is."
Sam: Yes, I didn't think you would--
Matt: The clerk, however, says, "Wait, you're saying you got something from J'mon Sa Ord. You saw J'mon Sa Ord, and you were given something."
Travis: Yes.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: (laughter) "Let me see this."
Sam: I hand it over.
Matt: She looks at it. (laughter fades) (laughter)
Matt: "Very well."
Travis: Consider that in negotiation.
Matt: She looks over and meets eyes with the captain and goes, "We're going to go ahead, you let me know the price and the palace is going to pay for this expedition."
Sam: I didn't know it would do that!
Laura: That is the most valuable necklace!
Matt: Opens the book and begins writing down a series of charges and is racking up--
Liam: You just Babe Ruth-ed that shit!
Marisha: Company card, man.
Sam: We'll probably need sparkling water, stat. Lots of brandy for the trip.
Travis: Maybe some servants and some masseuses.
Sam: Yes. I will definitely need someone with a knowledge of the sea, both in the air and down below, the waters below.
Matt: The captain says, "Actually we've got an individual just for that." He looks back to the clerk, "Are you sure?" "Yes, it's fine, not a worry. We'll talk when they leave."
Travis: Don't mind me, but I have violence on the mind at all times. Is there any customary weaponry or defense that you can put on this airship during our travels? Just in case we run into the same shit we did last time.
Matt: The captain goes, "Actually, after the encounter we had over the Ozmit last time, I managed to outfit this ship with a brand new series of dragon arbalests, so this is going to be a well-defended journey."
Travis: Nice. Do they aim in all directions?
Matt: "You'll see."
Travis: Nice.
Matt: And you do recall seeing them when you were in Vasselheim, you saw them being brought down and installed on the ship. But that was last time you saw the ship.
Sam: Can the ship be prepared to leave tomorrow morning?
Matt: "We can leave in the next hour, if you want."
Travis: Stand at the ready, our business is of great import.
Sam: Yes, Grog. Yes it is. I think you should ring the bell to make this an official deal.
Travis: Can I ring the bell?
Matt: You can if you want to.
Travis: But I don't grab it and ring it, I go (clang) one loud time.
Matt: The ringing is discordant and painful in proximity and the clerk went (groaning). The captain chuckles to himself. "So. In the morning."
Sam: We'll have to discuss with our associates, but be prepared as quickly as possible.
Matt: "All right. I'll assemble the crew and we'll be ready within the hour."
Sam: Excellent.
Travis: How many of your crew will you have with you? Just ballpark it.
Matt: It would be a crew of eight. "Normally seven, but we have eight now."
Travis: And I'm sure this crew is your finest. No greenhorns. Men you've spent years with, trust your life with.
Matt: "Most of them, yes."
Travis: Most of them. How many do you not trust your life with?
Matt: "There is one we've had on board for a short time, but she's definitely proven worthy."
Travis: Perhaps she should stay behind on this voyage.
Matt: "She's the one with the mastery of the ocean."
Travis: She's coming with us.
Sam: Thank you, Damon. Oh, one more thing. I asked you this last time, but are you still single?
Matt: "Yes?"
Sam: Okay, good to know.
Travis: Don't worry about him, there's a hubbub down in the quarter. People talking. It's the gold armor.
Matt: "I'm going to go ready my ship."
Travis: Yep. Good! We'll be back. Why did you ask him if he was single? That was so awkward.
Sam: Because Vex really liked him last time.
Travis: Yeah, I know, but he thought you liked him. Now we have to--
Sam: You know what, everyone thinks I like them. That's part of my wink-y charm.
Travis: I thought you said that it's part of your winky, I'm like, that's not--
Sam: (nudge-wink sound)
Matt: All right. You guys seemingly locked passage.
Travis: Boom. For free, bitch! On the house!
Sam: We could have been using this all over the place!
Travis: I know. It's an AmEx Black Card.
Sam: Real quick, guys. Real quick.
Travis: We make our way back.
Sam: Real quick, though, on the way back I'm going to go to the casino. Just real quick.
Laura: (yells) Scanlan!
Taliesin: No, hold out. Let's see this.
Travis: Yep. I'm with him. I'm with you.
Matt: Now you, guiding back, head right towards the Luck's Run.
Travis: I don't know if this is where our friends are.
Sam: It's a shortcut, friend.
Travis: Oh, okay.
Sam: We get outside, I pull Grog into a little alleyway and I say: Listen, friend. I'm going to go in there and do a little business. Can you do me a favor?
Travis: Play some music outside while you go number two?
Sam: I need you to keep your eyes open. Can I Minor Illusion a face of one of those guys who did the deal with me?
Matt: Yeah, you could. It's a still image, it makes no sound. It's very much an illusion--
Sam: Yeah, it's for him. To show him what he looks like. This face, look at it. Lock it in. I do the other face as well. This face, you see it?
Travis: Is there a test on this later?
Sam: There's only one test. If you see these people, grab them.
Travis: Grab them. And then what?
Sam: Do what Grog does best.
Travis: Just do what I do best when I see them?
Sam: Yes. But you won't see them unless they leave the casino. Just stay out here at the door.
Travis: Outside?
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Cool.
Sam: You're my lookout man.
Travis: Should I have a code word if you know they're coming out, like--
Sam: Yeah, let's come up with one right now. Yeah.
Travis: Dijon.
Sam: Yeah. There it is. Dijon.
Matt: All right. Grog, you taking watch, you head into the casino.
Sam: Oh! Before I go in, hat of disguise on.
Matt: What do you wish to look like?
Sam: Adult human male. Goatee, pork pie hat, black jacket. Just an ordinary man.
Liam: Yeah, Mr. Shorthalt! Yeah!
Taliesin: Is it Abbott or Costello? I'm not sure which.
Matt: And you walk into the Luck's Run. Being midday, it's not as busy as the evening you saw previously but I'd say about half the tables are still running and they have clientele throughout.
Sam: I'm looking, in the interest of time, going to look around for any of those two faces.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: That's bardic magic, bitch.
Sam: Nine.
Matt: You spend the better part of a half an hour scoping through each floor. No sign.
Sam: I didn't go into their office, though, right?
Matt: No. Through the bottom floor, and going up and checking hallways. And the third floor, which you hadn't been before, which is more of a lounge patio. It has more of the higher stakes games. You can see there are some more of the higher rollers and--
Sam: And can I make my way to the office area, where they led me?
Matt: Yeah. I mean, the door is closed.
Sam: Can I listen outside?
Matt: Yeah, you take a listen. Doesn't appear to be any sound from the other side.
Sam: Damn it.
Travis: Can I go to the corner where I can see the front entrance and the side alley where I was and look and see if I see either of those two faces?
Matt: Sure, make a perception check.
Travis: This will go well. Total shit. Six.
Matt: Six. No sign of them.
Travis: Cool. I'm looking at the wall.
Sam: Damn it. All right. I'll quickly Dimension Door inside the office.
Matt: (whoosh) Inside the office. Thankfully you have your gnomish dark vision. It is dark in here, there are no lights. The table and chairs and the general decor of the room seemingly untouched since last time you were in here.
Sam: All right. Is there any source of light around here?
Matt: There are a couple of lanterns in the corner that could be lit.
Sam: I will light one.
Matt: All right. (whoosh) You turn the lantern up. Light glows.
Sam: Going right into the desk, looking for anything. Keys, gold, contraband, weapons.
Matt: Investigation check.
Sam: 23.
Matt: 23. Scanning through you find the odd four copper pieces. You find a couple of small books. One looks like it's on etiquette, and the other is written in a language you don't understand. But you gather it's Marquesian. You do also find some small notes-- like a little name that is drawn on the inside of one of the drawers. Looks old, like it's been there for a long time, and says "Lelan." And you find-- that's about it. You get the sense this isn't a stationary room that they use as a base of operations, it's almost like a rental space used when people want to come in here and do business. Which happens often in a casino establishment. They want to make sure that they provide their clientele with all the necessary needs, and a lot of the rooms on this center floor are to facilitate the meetings between the top and the bottom.
Sam: Damn it. All right, I'll do one more investigation check to see if there's any hidden compartments in the desk or around it.
Travis: Burn it to the ground.
Sam: 24.
Matt: 24. Nothing under the desks, but the table that you're at, there is a small false bottom on each side. You pull it open and there is a single dagger on each end. Apparently for those that know, they're provided as a means of defense in case things in one of these meetings go wrong. But who knows who knows this information. It looks like they haven't been used in a while.
Sam: All right.
Travis: Can I look around and see if I see the two faces now?
Matt: Sure, make another perception check.
Travis: 18.
Matt: Nope.
Sam: All right, fine. I will take the daggers, take the Marquesian book, whatever that was, take a huge dump on the desk, and take one of the daggers and dig a big piece of it and write on the wall, "The Meat Man cometh." (laughing)
Taliesin: Wouldn't it be, "The Meat Man goeth?" Oh well, never mind.
Sam: And then I'll let myself out.
Matt: Okay. You open the door. There are two people walking through. They glance over at you and keep walking. You close the door behind you and you have left your mark.
Sam: Okay. On the way out of the casino do I see any familiar faces?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: 18!
Matt: 18. Nah.
Sam: Ah, fuck you!
Matt: They seemingly know better than to return to the scene of the crime.
Sam: All right.
Matt: For lesser folk, 400 gold can keep you going for quite some time.
Travis: Put some money on red or black while you're in there. Just once.
Sam: All right.
Laura: You should try the dice game just once.
Sam: The dice game?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: All right. Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Want to come in and play once with me?
Travis: No.
Sam: Okay, great. (laughter)
Sam: I'll do the dice game once.
Matt: Okay, all right. So you walk in to the table. There's three other individuals there. Hold on, let me get prepared here. Since this is the first time we're really doing this here, which is kind of fun. All righty.
Taliesin: No, this is like, the third run.
Laura: Isn't this the seven or the twelve game?
Matt: Oh, the dice game! Dice game, I'm sorry.
Sam: What's the other game?
Matt: Well the dice game's cool. There's the dice game, the lizards, and the card game. Your call.
Marisha: What's the card game?
Matt: Dice game is the 2d6--
Sam: What's the fastest one? Let's do that one.
Matt: The fastest one is the dice game. The card game takes a little more time.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: All right, so. That is a 25 gold minimum buy in for Avandra's Favor.
Travis: Even in the middle of the day, the minimums don't go down?
Laura: I know, I feel like the minimums should go down in the middle of the day.
Sam: 50 gold.
Matt: You've never been to Ank'Harel!
Sam: 50 gold!
Travis: Well I've been to Harrah's!
Matt: The minimums stay where they are.
Sam: 50 gold.
Matt: All right, you throw 50 gold down. As you slap it down, still in your human guise, an individual to the left of you goes, "Whew. All right. Big, strong opening and strong scent." Scoots over a bit to the right. Go ahead and roll your dice.
Sam: Six.
Matt: Six.
Laura: Double down!
Matt: He goes, "Mm. That's unfortunate."
Taliesin: Six is the double down, isn't it? Six is the double down.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: "You can go ahead and double the price to add an additional 1d6. You're going for seven or 12."
Sam: Sure, yeah.
Taliesin: So roll one more die.
Matt: "So 100 gold on the table. Roll one more dice. You want a one--"
Marisha: --or a six.
Sam: I got a five.
Marisha: Aww.
Matt: "I am very sorry my friend." Shifts the coin away. 100 gold down now.
Sam: I just say  I hate this casino. (laughter)
Matt: Any other games you want to play?
Sam: No! No, I leave. Goddammit. Wait, what was the names? The names that they gave me? The two guys gave me?
Matt: Oh! Oh, right.
Sam: Grug, or something.
Matt: That was Rutur was the half orc. And I have to go look up what the other one was.
Sam: It's fine. I'll ask the dealer, or the dicer, if he's seen Rutur around.
Matt: He kind of--
Sam: Jesus Christ. Five more gold.
Matt: "Ah, yes. Rutur makes his way around here on occasion. Every couple weeks, maybe." (laughter)
Liam: This city has had its way with you, Scanlan Shorthalt.
Taliesin: You're never going to get a kiss.
Travis: Take your finger out of my asshole, Gary.
Matt: "He doesn't seem to carry much change with him." (laughter)
Sam: Are you trying to do this to me on purpose?
Matt: He looks at you strangely. "Hm?"
Liam: You talking to Matt?
Matt: You keep coming back man, I don't know.
Sam: Fine.
Travis: Do I see any half orcs outside?
Matt: You do not at the moment.
Travis: Damn it.
Matt: There is still Quon A Drensal or Gambit of Ord if you're feeling lucky and you want to make your money back.
Sam: Not in a million years, no! This place, it sucks all my mojo. It's like the anti-mojo.
Taliesin: I feel a valuable lesson has finally been learned, for the first time in this game.
Sam: All right, I leave. And I go out and I say, Grog, let's go home. But before we do, slap me in the face really hard.
Travis: You're sure?
Sam: Yes, I need it. I need it.
Travis: Really hard. You want me to use the gauntlets or no?
Sam: No.
Liam: If he doesn't roll for damage then I'm going to be offended.
Travis: All right, I take the Titanstone Knuckle off my left hand and I slap him.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll a strength check.
Travis: 18.
Matt: All right. You take five points of damage.
Taliesin: Is he still wearing the disguise? Is he wearing the hat of disguise?
Sam: Yes. Of course.
Matt: He is.
Taliesin: So would his head not be, necessarily, where his--
Matt: That's true, and with Grog being not the one who would remember that or recall that, he goes--
Sam: I can't even get slapped in the face right!
Taliesin: I will ruin everything! I will ruin everything!
Matt: It's a valid point, thank you for remembering.
Travis: I was so confused why a stranger would ask me to slap him. (laughter)
Sam: We go home.
Liam: Wait. So way faster than the casino trip, while we've been waiting so long, Percival has been acting fucking twitchy since we found that body so I walk over to him sitting off at a table. Hey, Mr. Cool-as-a-cucumber. Shush. Or come with me, come have a seat.
Laura: Okay, all right, I'm here.
Liam: What's the matter? Yeah, it's her again. We're going to find her. It's fine. You're huffing and hawing since we found her body. It's fine. What's going on?
Taliesin: I was really hoping she was going to go away. That's all. I was really hoping that she was just going to go away.
Liam: Well she's going to go away, Percival. If not now, later.
Taliesin: Every second she's alive is untold damage to the world. Do you know how every now and then I say something awful?
Laura: Mm-hmm.
Taliesin: I love you both very much for that. When I think of that terrible person inside of me I see her face. She has a very active imagination. She knows how to make these machines, and her imagination terrifies me. If you knew that that was me, would you let me live? Has she made ten more of these things, has she made 100? Does she hand them out to people? Maybe, I don't know, maybe she's running around and torturing people's parents and siblings to death and then handing them a gun and kicking them out into the world to see what will happen because it could be funny.
Liam: You're probably right, Percival. She probably is. This is not Lord and Lady Briarwood over again, though.
Taliesin: No, it's not.
Liam: And you're not alone.
Taliesin: No, I'm not.
Liam: You have me, you have her. You have her. You have the other two Laurel and Hardy motherfuckers who aren't back yet.
Taliesin: I was so hoping that maybe--
Marisha: I slam some mead in front of him.
Taliesin: Thank you. I was hoping something heavy had fallen on her from a great height, saving the world a few thousand lives.
Laura: Well, we're going to be above her. Maybe we can be the one to drop something heavy.
Taliesin: That's really what I'm hoping.
Marisha: Oh, I've been practicing that actually. I can be really heavy.
Taliesin: That may help.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: She is the biggest mistake I've made, and I'm horrified by who's paid the price.
Liam: All the more reason for you to be the same cold-hearted asshole you've been for the last year. Why change now? Get the job done, Percival.
Taliesin: I'm counting to a hundred. I'll be fine.
Marisha: It's not very often we see you shaky, Percy.
Taliesin: Once we're out of here, I'll feel fine. Once that thing is off my machine I will feel fine. And I'm thinking of something else. I'm thinking of building something awful to help deal with her.
Marisha: Hang on. Wait. Hang on. I was about to ask if you ever have regrets of building something awful and releasing it into this world, and now you just said you're going to double down, essentially?
Taliesin: I've been thinking long and hard about it. I think inevitably, anytime I think of something it might be too late. I think I'm going to be very careful about what I build. I'm going to be very careful about where it goes, and I'm also going to ask anybody, if-- when I die, destroy everything. Please. This is why I don't write down notes. Any of my sketches, they're put away, and they're put in a place where I can remove them once the job is done. But I sketch my idle thoughts, and right now I'm having an idle thought for her and it's simple, it's nothing complicated, it's just vicious.
Liam: Well all right, we can do that. We can destroy anything you make, but for now, Percy. Keep your head, man.
Taliesin: One night of sleep, I'll be there.
Marisha: What exactly are you thinking of making? Just because we could destroy your notes, I mean, you're still alive and your guns still got into the world.
Laura: Regardless of what he makes, who wields it? Fenthras is a horrible weapon wielded by a horrible being before I had it. A gun can do the same thing.
Marisha: You're arguably one of the greatest minds in existence right now, Percival.
Taliesin: That's a terrible thought.
Marisha: But you are. And Vex isn't wrong.
Taliesin: I know. There are things that one day I will speak of that I'm not really ready to deal with yet. But I think I may even have something that could help us with the dragons. I have a thought. I'm going to work on it on our way to the island.
Liam: Now I'm nervous.
Taliesin: It will be something that once the dragons are felled I plan on destroying immediately after. And I think you'll be all right with it when you see it, it's too complicated for any one person to really deal with. But I will feel much better if she is in the ground.
Laura: Well I'm interested in seeing it.
Marisha: Percy. You know you can talk to us, right? You never share ideas with us.
Taliesin: I do. I told you my idea of killing all the dragonborn to start a war between the dragons.
Marisha: All right, well.
Taliesin: That's why I don't share those ideas, I'm not proud of them.
Laura: Is this thing you're building going to kill a lot of people in addition to the dragon?
Taliesin: I hope not, but it could. It could make it very easy to kill a lot of people.
Liam: One day at a time, gang. Let's deal with Ripley first.
Taliesin: Let's deal with Ripley. Let's collect a few more things that will help us deal with home. Let's save home. And then I will spend some good time undoing some of the damage that I've done. I should have killed her. I should have.
Marisha: You shouldn't feel regret about not taking another person's life. It's a moment of humanity.
Taliesin: It wasn't. I was not being kind, I was being selfish. I didn't kill her because the Briarwoods mattered more to me, even though I knew that she was far more dangerous. That if they had escaped, the world would be darker, two more vampires or whatever, but she was the genie and I knowingly and very willingly said, I'm fine with that. And I knew at that moment, this was not a thought I had later, in my head, I went, she is going to kill hundreds of people. And that's okay right now.
Laura: Percy, if you had stayed with her and let the Briarwoods go, a god, a terrible god, would probably be loosed on the land right now. I think you chose correctly.
Taliesin: I think I stumbled into the correct answer, I'm not sure I chose correctly. I think I got lucky.
Marisha: Did you not want to kill her because in a way you feel responsible for who she is?
Taliesin: Oh, I feel absolutely responsible for inspiring a maniac, of course I do.
Liam: Look. We're going to help you get to her. You're going to get her. You've got to let us in on it a bit, though, all right?
Taliesin: Once I have something drawn I'll show you what it is. And I'll have something drawn by tomorrow. Something simple.
Liam: That's a promise?
Taliesin: That is absolutely a promise.
Marisha: Also I know you're really smart, but we're smart too. Don't insult our intelligence by assuming we can't comprehend one of your ideas.
Taliesin: Oh no you'll comprehend it, and it's not that I don't think you can comprehend it, I know you can, it's that I know what it says about me that I even thought it.
Marisha: Percy. Percy.
Taliesin: You've been drinking.
Marisha: I have!
Laura: Oh, Keyleth! Really? Hold off of the alcohol. We have a lot to do today.
Marisha: We've been through so much!
Liam: I think my point has been made. I start moving Keyleth towards that door for some fresh air.
Laura: Please, get her some fresh air.
Marisha: I want more mead!
Liam: Come on.
Taliesin: I'm sorry I'm an idiot.
Marisha: I love you, but I hate you, but I love you.
Laura: Percy.
Taliesin: I'm fond of you as well. Yes, dear.
Laura: You're a better man than you believe.
Taliesin: Thank you. I accept that compliment. You as well, you are a better woman than you believe. Doesn't feel good, does it? There you are.
Laura: No, it doesn't. Shit.
Taliesin: That's what you get for saying things like that. Terrible person.
Liam: Thought for a second you also had one ball.
Matt: All right. So your companions arrive.
Travis: We're back!
Sam: We're back. Good news, Grog sweet-talked them into giving us an airship for free.
Liam: No shit, Grog!
Sam: Grog did the whole thing himself.
Laura: Wait, what?!
Liam: How did you do it?
Travis: Well, it's a very intricate and detailed process. Involves a lot of-- you know what? It'll be all over your heads, so just say thank you.
Sam: Let's just say that he's a good reader of body language.
Laura: What the fuck did you do? Did you really?
Sam: We got an airship for free.
Liam: Who's excited now?
Taliesin: I'm very excited, that's the best thing I've heard all day.
Laura: Did you steal it? Tell me you didn't do anything--
Sam: We did nothing illegal. And to sweeten the deal, Captain Damon will be our Damon pilot.
Taliesin: That Captain Damon.
Travis: "Our Damon pilot."
Marisha: Did you tell him we were the ones with the wyverns? Because that's what I would have told him. Had I been there, theoretically.
Sam: That thought popped right into my head.
Marisha: Really? Okay.
Sam: And on the way back I won back the 50 gold I lost on the fusaka.
Travis: You did!
Sam: Yeah, yep.
Taliesin: Well done!
Sam: So I'm going to leave Marquet totally evens.
Laura: That's great!
Taliesin: That's amazing.
Sam: Yup, pretty good.
Taliesin: I wish I could say that.
Liam: Oh cheers to that, cheers.
Sam: Still batting a thousand, this guy. Unstoppable me!
Travis: Now we can leave whenever we're ready.
Sam: Oh, yeah, let's pack our bags.
Laura: Right now?
Sam: Oh, wait no, we still have to de-curse the thing.
Laura: Oh the enchantment! Right. We're waiting on that, that's why we're fucking here.
Matt: You guys go back down to the main area?
Liam: So many things.
Laura: Shall we bring the weapon down there?
Liam: That seems like a bad idea.
Taliesin: Once they're here. Actually, yes, why not?
Laura: Yay, then Trinket's with us again.
Matt: Yes. All so you guys head back down to the main thoroughfare, or the main area of the tavern?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: There you see the same folks are there. You see Treev is there, and you see a shifty-looking guy. A rather pointed nose, very shallow features. And his hands are together, he has a satchel over his shoulder, and these long, plain looking robes. And his thinning, short, dark hair is slicked against his skull. He has a thin mustache goatee right there, and he's sitting at the edge of the bar, talking to Treev.
Laura: So he looks totally trustworthy.
Matt: Totally trustworthy.
Matt: As soon as you guys walk down the stairs--
Liam: Is he that picture of you on the carousel?
Matt: Basically yes, but with the shorter slicked hair.
Taliesin: I'm glad that's a thing again. I really missed that.
Matt: I don't know how to take that actually, based on how I just described the NPC.
Liam: It's more the grimace.
Taliesin: I suddenly can hear thousands of Twitch viewers Googling. Googling like mad!
Matt: Noted.
Liam: Whoops. "And then Vax died."
Matt: Disadvantage for the rest of the episode. No. Treev goes, "Oh and here they are, the ones who hired your help. Folks, I'd like to introduce you to Kyme, he's one of our fine allies in the Omnival Library here in the city, and I believe he can take care of your little problem. So talk." And the guy spins around on the stool at the edge of the bar, and goes, "Okay, so I have been told that you require some sort of disenchantment type thing. Who am I talking to here? There's a lot of you. You? Okay, come."
Taliesin: All right. I have an object-- so hard to talk to that face.
Laura: Scanlan. He seems like the type, you might want to try selling him some of that fusaka.
Taliesin: I have an object that I own that someone is tracking me with. They are aware of my whereabouts, they've put some kind of enchantment on it. I was wondering if I could transfer that enchantment to another object, and send it in a different direction so that they don't know that we're following them.
Matt: "That's possible, yes."
Taliesin: I would even be willing, if possible, to remove part of the object that I currently own, and then replace it with something else if necessary.
Matt: "Depending on the strength of the enchantment, that can take anywhere within the next few weeks."
Taliesin: Can I get you a drink? Are you all right?
Matt: "Why? Why do you ask?"
Laura: Can I insight check him?
Matt: Make an insight check, yeah.
Liam: Yay.
Sam: May I make a physiological check of his mouth shape? His jaw seems--
Liam: New Matt character!
Taliesin: I know.
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19.
Sam: You know at shop.geekandsundry.com, there's a lot of new items up for sale.
Marisha: That's true.
Taliesin: There's the mug.
Liam: Do they have the model airship yet?
Sam: There's the mug, there's rings, patches. What?
Liam: The model airship?
Sam: The model airship, it's life-sized. Nail wraps by Espionage Cosmetics, only 12 dollars. And don't forget, one week left on pre-orders for those silicon bracelets and the enamel pins guys.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Backblaze!
Taliesin: So I'm going to show him the gun, and I'm going to say, what do you think? And I'm going to show him where the enchantment is.
Sam: You're showing him the gun? We just said don't show people the gun.
Laura: We need to remove the enchantment from it.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: If we can remove the enchantment, if it takes a long time to transfer, maybe you can keep transferring it after we've left? Is that a thing?
Matt: "I can get rid of the enchantment immediately, but it's gone. Transfer, that's a time-taking process, it's much more expensive than what I was promised as part of this contract." Looks back to Treev. Treev's leaning back and he's like, "I just brought you here to talk with them."
Taliesin: We just want to know our options, sir, and time is sadly of the essence. What can you tell us about this?
Matt: "Strange construction."
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "Ah. I see what you're talking about." He starts glancing-- shut up!-- Glancing at the bottom of Retort. "It is a variation on a scrying enchantment, with a hint of a message-type base. It's audio only, not visual."
Marisha: Son of a bitch!
Taliesin: Can they track where we are?
Matt: "They cannot track location, but this is a joint enchantment, there are two pieces to this. And it would appear that, wherever the receiving end is, they can probably hear everything around it."
Marisha: Guys, this could be a gift, think of the possibilities.
Travis: She's hearing this right now.
Sam: If she's listening.
Matt: "Oh, I'm sure whoever has the other side of this enchantment is now well aware of everything we've just discussed."
Laura: Great.
Sam: Maybe we should take it out of the room.
Taliesin: Shh, no.
Matt: "Who has the other side of this enchantment by the way?" And he suddenly looks extremely nervous. Beads of sweat start showing up on his forehead.
Taliesin: I'll tell you what. You do the work quickly, you do the work well, and you follow a few other instructions of ours, and I will not say her name out loud right now. How does that sound to you?
Matt: What do you want? Disenchantment, transference, tell me.
Taliesin: Not anymore, we just want the enchantment destroyed. And I will not say her name, so that she will know that you do not know who she is.
Matt: What does that mean? What does that mean? What's he saying? What is he saying?
Sam: For your own protection.
Taliesin: This is me, giving you a deal, good sir. This is me, showing you respect. And you, if you can hear me, and I get the sneaking suspicion you can, I'm not ignoring you anymore.
Sam: Wait, before you do, a quick word, is there a way to reverse the direction? Okay.
Matt: Reaches into a little pouch of components on the side. Takes things, crushes them, sprinkles them on. Looks about. "Ahem, it's done, it's gone, here."
Laura: What?! Really?
Marisha: Can I check it?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Scanlan, help me check this.
Laura: That fast?
Sam: All right.
Laura: You are very powerful, you.
Marisha: What do we do here?
Matt: Make an arcana check.
Marisha: Scanlan, help.
Sam: Yeah, I got a natural one, sister.
Marisha: Oh boy. 16.
Matt: As you're staring at it, you watch as the Ripley signature that's very, very small, put in the bottom of the piece of whitestone, begins to glow. Suddenly, he goes, "By the way, it takes a moment. Put your face away please!" And as you pull it back, it flashes, and then goes dark again. "And... now it's done."
Marisha: Okay, I'll look at it again. What does it look like?
Matt: Looks the same.
Marisha: What do you mean it looks the same?
Matt: Meaning like, the signature's still there, the stone is still there, but that slight essence of slight enchantment that was there before is gone.
Taliesin: You wouldn't happen to know where to get some construction materials on very quick notice?
Matt: "No!"
Laura: You wouldn't be able to identify something for me, would you?
Taliesin: Oh yes, go ahead, do that.
Laura: You seem so smart, is all.
Matt: "This was not part of the agreement."
Laura: Darling, we're already here, please?
Taliesin: And we didn't say your name.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: "And we didn't say your name."
Laura: Oh, damn it. I will pay you.
Matt: "How much?"
Laura: How much do you want?
Matt: Looks back at Treev. Treev goes--
Laura: Just to identify something, that's all dear.
Taliesin: Something simple.
Matt: "100 gold, please."
Laura: 100 gold. Darling. It seemed effortless for you to do that before. Is it hard?
Matt: "I have a shop to get back to. I'm sorry, I can't be here any longer."
Laura: Fine, fine.
Matt: And he gets up from the stool.
Laura: Shit! Fine. A hundred gold, whatever. I just want to know, can you look at this please? It's a tea set, it's gold. Isn't it beautiful?
Matt: Takes it from you and his hands are clammy, as he pulls it out of your grasp. And he looks over the tea set, and it's in his hands, he doesn't really know what to do with it. And he places it on the side. "Okay." Begins breathing heavily, and it's fogging the side of the metallic tea set. And you see this sweat dripping off of his nose. He's still very nervous about this endeavor and wants to get out of here as soon as possible. "All right, this is a tea set of envenoming. Whenever you produce some sort of a liquid imbibement within the tea set, it's guaranteed to be a bad day for whoever drinks from it."
Laura: It's so good we didn't drink from it.
Taliesin: Does the liquid hold its potency or is it just within the tea set?
Matt: "For a day."
Taliesin: Good to know.
Laura: Lovely.
Taliesin: Excellent.
Sam: Will someone die?
Matt: "I'm not a master of poisons, I just know that it poisons."
Laura: Thank you so much.
Matt: And he takes it and holds it, and is like, "100 gold."
Laura: Of course dear.
Matt: "Thank you." And as soon as he gets it, he lets go of it, puts it in his pouch. "And good day. Treev, careful next time." And he darts off, outside. Bursting through the door and into the alley. And Treev sits.
Taliesin: I was imagining the FBI agent from The Frighteners, I was having a lot of that.
Marisha: I was imagining The Creep music video from Lonely Island.
Matt: Kind of. Yeah, actually. Treev is like, "Now that was fun to watch."
Laura: That guy was weird.
Matt: "He's a weird one. I knew he'd do the job, but honestly I like watching him twitch."
Taliesin: Thank you, that was very helpful. That was very helpful. They don't know that we're coming as they don't know how we're going or why, because we have spoken all of that outside of the range of that device. They don't know any of that.
Marisha: True, the gun was in the other room.
Taliesin: All they know is that we found the enchantment and killed it.
Liam: Should we melt it just in case?
Taliesin: No. There will be no more melting of my property for a little while yet. I have a bit of a quick shopping list before we head out of town. I was wondering if it would be possible to gather some quick supplies, if some of your people knew where to get simple construction materials, quickly. Today.
Laura: And potions of healing.
Matt: "Potions, head to the Suncut Bazaar. I'm sure you could find a few folks. We usually get ours from--" And he starts looking through a list, he goes, "Let's see, there's--"
Liam: Are we staying here for the night before heading out in the morning?
Travis: No.
Taliesin: No.
Liam: So we're sleeping on the ship?
Travis: Yes.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "Nisaba are the two I know of, at least."
Laura: Saaba and what?
Matt: "Usar and Nisaba."
Laura: They'll give a good deal?
Matt: "Perhaps. You ask them nicely."
Taliesin: I need lumber, steel, lead, and a couple other things. Very simple. Just some materials. I'll show you what I'm building and I'll have you figure out the number.
Matt: "Right."
Taliesin: Loaded straight on the ship.
Matt: "What you're looking for is the Bone Garden. It's the northernmost side of the Suncut Bazaar. They deal with a lot of the not guild-run sales of various construction means. More for the residential folk here in Ank'Harel."
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: For the sake of brevity, what are you searching for?
Taliesin: I'm trying to get enough construction material to build a very basic 125-pound mountable cannon that I can move around the ship on wheels, and a little bit of shot for a cannon, about five pound shot. It's simple, but it's going to be a son of a bitch.
Matt: There are cannons made. That technology--
Taliesin: --does exist. But does something that small that can move around a ship exist? This would be something that four people could pick up and move around.
Matt: That small? The few things they have here, they're magically-based fire. It's similar to the dragon arbalist installation. It's not so much a gunpowder-based explosion, since that is mostly unutilized. This is a metal tube that contains an enchantment that throws out bursts of energy. You could purchase a base for one of those constructs. That would cut down the time because if you're going to make a cannon, that's going to be an endeavor, that'll take you a long time.
Taliesin: A base will do, and I need to build a thing to build cannonballs.
Matt: Takes you the better part of the day to even find out, asking around because Treev doesn't know anything about where to find the base for a cannon like that. Takes you the better part of the rest of the day, pushing into dusk, for you to find out where that could be purchased. That's going to run you about 60 gold.
Taliesin: I'm good with that.
Matt: It's not enchanted.
Taliesin: 60 gold and then a little extra to make cannonballs and otherwise. Get them to deliver it to the ship and I'm sending everything to be delivered immediately to the ship.
Matt: Anything else anyone wants to prepare?
Laura: Potions. I need healing potions. Who needs healing potions?
Sam: All of us.
Taliesin: Everybody.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: On street-level sales, asking around, the most you can acquire are probably any number of common, regular healing potions you may want. Through conversations, at most five of the greater can be purchased.
Laura: Okay. Scanlan, can you come with me?
Sam: Yes.
Laura: Can we find a Hand of Ord?
Matt: Yeah, not too hard to find at all. Quick look around, a Hand of Ord, especially here in the market.
Sam: Flash the thing? What am I flashing it for?
Laura: I want to talk to him.
Liam: Get the cube out.
Sam: Oi, mate. We're friends with J'mon Sa Ord.
Laura: We're not making a street deal right now.
Sam: Oh! I thought everything was here.
Taliesin: This could be part of your problem here.
Matt: He bends down after giving you a weird eyebrow.
Sam: I'm a normal, human man.
Matt: You're still in your--
Sam: I forgot to take it off.
Matt: So you're a normal, human man in non-Ank'Harel attire. Shows off the necklace. He looks at it. "How did you come about that?"
Laura: We met with J'mon Sa Ord earlier. We have their blessing.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18 total?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: He goes, "Okay, what can I be of service to you?"
Laura: We're in need of some healing potions. I'm assuming, as a guard of the city, you have access to quite a few?
Matt: "Could probably muster a few from the barracks, yes."
Laura: Some greater healing potions would be wonderful.
Matt: "I'll get what we can spare. We still have to keep enough to maintain our watch."
Laura: Of course.
Matt: "Wait here. Give me a half-hour."
Sam: Okay.
Matt: You guys wait for him and he comes back with six regular healing potions and three greater.
Sam: This thing is the best thing ever! I'm not holding anything but it's still cool! (laughter)
Laura: Six regular?
Travis: And three greater.
Matt: "This is what we can spare from the nearby barracks."
Laura: Thank you so much. Your aid is appreciated.
Matt: "If I could have your names, just to be safe that everything is--"
Laura: Be pleased. Vox Machina.
Matt: "Vox Machina."
Laura: And then I want to buy like three more greaters.
Matt: All right. That is 1500 gold.
Laura: Can I say I haggled?
Matt: Roll a persuasion check. (assorted muttering)
Laura: Shut up!
Marisha: Big money, no whammies.
Laura: Natural 20!
All: Oh!
Travis: The sorcery is strong with this one, apparently.
Matt: Through diving between two different locations that sell these potions and forcing them to basically bid back and forth for your business, you manage to work it down to 1100 gold pieces for the three greater healing potions.
Taliesin: It's like you've got Amazon.com on your phone and you're going, "Eh? Eh?"
Laura: All right, three more greater healing potions.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Sounds good.
Sam: You saved 400 gold! Want to kick some of that to this guy? Well, I've been helping you all day, shuttling back and forth between those two.
Laura: Can I insight check him?
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: It's not going to work but oh, I hope it does.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: Oh, it's high.
Travis: (chuckles) You're fucked.
Sam: It's not that good.
Laura: 27.
Matt: Remember, you can also add your own inspiration die if you want to.
Sam: No, no need. Let's see here. You said 27?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: 26. (gasping)
Matt: For the first time, you see a crack in Scanlan Shorthalt's veneer. You see a bit of sweat at his brow and as he mentions this money, suddenly you see this quiver to his smile. His teeth shine not as bright as you recall. And there's a taste of desperation you never knew was there at the mention of money.
Travis: The faintest nosebleed.
Laura: Darling?
Sam: (strained) Yes?
Laura: We all have off days.
Sam: (strained) I've had a whole off city!
Laura: We're about to leave.
Sam: (strained) Please, can we?
Laura: We can. I won't tell anyone.
Sam: All right. So, like, 200 gold then?
Travis: Please, sir?
Laura: I give him 50. That's for lying to me.
Sam: Thank you. I want to go away from this place.
Liam: Can we get back to politics, please?
Laura: All right. Minus 1100.
Matt: I like to imagine when this whole campaign's over, Scanlan Shorthalt comes back and cleans out the casino in vengeance.
Liam: As the airship bears down on Ank'Harel.
Matt: I meant monetarily, but that works too.
Liam: Scarface.
Travis: Even though it's dusk, should we mount up tonight?
Sam: Yes.
Laura: Yes, Let's go get on the boat.
Travis: Let's head to the skies.
Liam: This is really happening.
Taliesin: I'm so excited.
Liam: We've joked about it for ages.
Travis: (singing) Indalla!
Matt: All right, you all make your way to the sky port.
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: Ah, it would've been so much sweeter if we could've stolen the airship, but getting it for free feels right.
Taliesin: We got it for a steal.
Matt: All right, so you guys make your way up to the terraced platform above the sky port. The larger ship you guys saw earlier is no longer there, it has taken off, and now all you see before you is the ship Deera that is currently down. The six chains have been reduced to two, and it appears to be at the ready. As opposed to its resting position, now the fan on the sides is unfurled, the crystals themselves glow with a faint blue energy signature, as the dusk sun begins to set. It's much more prominent now. And a series of four rope ladders have been dropped from the side of the actual ship.
Sam: Ladies, your chariot awaits.
Marisha: No. I make sure Scanlan goes first.
Sam: All right.
Matt: All right.
Laura: I turn around and wink at him as I go up.
Matt: All right, you guys make your way up the rope ladders. This is indeed the ship that you made across, although it has a new paint job on it. It looks a little bit nicer, but it also seems to have seen some disuse. You make your way onto the board and there you can see familiar ship hands that go around, nodding to you out of recognition. Some of them are pulling up the rope ladders behind you. You see two on the bottom there are now unchaining from the edge of where it's latched onto the side of the ship, on each side, that keeps it latched into the skyport. And Captain Damon comes up to the top to greet you. "Very well. I see that you've come to begin the journey. Well, it is a pleasure to see you all again, safe and sound, although you are missing one. Two, actually."
Taliesin: Yes, we're a bit thinner. It has been difficult and we have friends elsewhere preparing for more difficult times. Are you aware of what's going on across the sea?
Matt: "I'm very aware. That was the guild that owned the ship and ran our business disappeared in the attack, and we've been set adrift, making our own money and making ends meet in the meantime, doing odd jobs here and there."
Taliesin: Well, if you're interested, we are definitely moving towards correcting some of these problems. Quickly.
Matt: "If you do, tell the guild that the ship crashed, because as of right now it's technically my ship."
Taliesin: Is this an insurance thing?
Matt: "I didn't-- the guild owned and ran the shipping business, but I mean--"
Taliesin: Oh no. Yes, I'm a deep believer in insurance fraud. Of course.
Matt: "It's not--" (sighs)
Liam: We're friends here. You're good.
Matt: "I'd like to know where we're going. As that is part of the deal to be kept secret until boarding."
Travis: Actually, if you don't mind, we're heading north. Once we're away from port, we plan to inform you of our destination.
Taliesin: Tomorrow.
Matt: "North it is. Very well." And he pulls a whistle from around his neck and blows it really loudly and everyone unleashes the chains from the side. (clanking sound) They crash down, slamming onto the terrace deck below. The ship lurches and lifts up a few feet naturally and finding its own balance, based on the enchantment of the crystals. "You can stay on the edge if you'd like. You're welcome to find your quarters down below. But we are about to make sail." He walks to the edge of the ship, the middle of the ship, the back where you can see he directs the position of it, and controls the crystals themselves. And the giant dragon-headed arbalist you see installed at the side. They're like the giant heavy crossbows that are bolted onto the side, these large spears-- the ones you were using in the fight before, they're nearly twice the size of what they were, and the front of them have this giant dark metal dragon head that is built around it. It's been definitely fitted to be a much more badass airship than you remember. It lifts up, and as the last bit of the sun disappears below the distant horizon and the city of Ank'Harel's lighting up for the evening time, you take up into the sky, slowly turning northward towards what you can see as barely visible, the silhouetted edge of the mountain range before you, the Agrad Mountains, making your way to the rest of your journey. And we're going to go ahead and take a break; we'll come back here in just a minute.
Travis: One thing before we do  we forgot to mention that next week during Game the Game, thanks to Magic Puzzle Quest, Matt and Marisha, Taliesin, Liam, and myself will be joining Ivan and Becca for Game the Game, from 5:30 to 6:30, so make sure you tune in. It's going to be a very special Game the Game. Thank you, Magic Puzzle Quest.
Laura: Also thank you Backblaze!
Matt: All right guys, we'll see you in a few minutes. Thank you, Travis. [break]
Matt: Hello, and welcome back to Critical Role. So as we left off, Vox Machina is--
Laura: Wait, before we do that! We forgot to mention at the top of the show. There's only one week of preorder left on the bracelets and the pins.
Travis: Yeah, we wouldn't want people to miss out. It's limited run.
Taliesin: I don't have a bracelet, but I have the pins.
Laura: He's wearing the bracelet.
Sam: Laura, I did mention that while you were getting whispered to.
Laura: I know, you did. I heard you, but, you know. In case people were drowning you out. And then we also have the limited items, which we only have a little bit left in the store: the nail wraps, and the patches that were limited edition at Comic-Con that are still there. I think, still in the store? So yeah.
Taliesin: Were the rings up in there?
Laura: The rings! And the rings, the spinning rings.
Taliesin: Did they come back in?
Travis: And the mug, which is my favorite. Okay, now we're good.
Laura: Okay, sorry.
Matt: All right, no worries. Thank you for mentioning that. Vox Machina, as night has taken the sky and you lift up, heading northward, you watch as the glowing jewel of Ank'Harel begins to slowly grow smaller and smaller in the distance. Below you, you see a mass of black darkness.
Marisha: I want to take Percy to the front of the ship.
Taliesin: Ah! That's my--
Marisha: Set it down.
Taliesin: I'll put it down, okay.
Marisha: And I want to--
Taliesin: (whispers) I feel so dirty.
Marisha: (whispers) Say you can fly.
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: Say you can fly.
Taliesin: No, because I'm not going to say that-- It's not true. It's not true.
Marisha: Say you're flying.
Taliesin: I feel sick.
Marisha: (laughs) Damn it.
Laura: Don't throw up again.
Liam: While they're doing that, I'm actually flying next to the ship and praying for a while out in the dark.
Matt: Okay. So yeah. You have very little idea of where you are other than watching the city slowly disappear. Above, as you look towards the front of the ship, where it's going, you can see little specks of light in the distance, almost like smaller cities or villages that slowly begin to move past and below you. And the stars in the sky breaking through some of the clouds that occasionally block as you progress. As the ship begins to rise about cloud level, you can see the very faint outline of the mountain range, and you then coast above it. As you begin to finally crest over the top of the mountain range itself, Captain Damon locks the ship steering mechanism in place and walks back to address all of you, and goes, "All right, we're well on our way. We're heading north. We've been travelling for a number of hours now. Where are we going?"
Taliesin: Before--
Matt: (sighs)
Taliesin: I swear this is important. Before we say anything, we would like to take a moment to meet the rest of the crew.
Travis: Yes, and all hands on deck.
Taliesin: To make sure that nobody suspicious has snuck on board and nobody is hiding their identity.
Matt: "Very well." He gathers the rest of the crew. You recognize a few of them. They have a few new faces, because they lost a few on the last journey. You individually meet each one with pretty heavy inspection from you guys. I want you to make insight checks, all of you, as you're inspecting this crew.
Taliesin: No!
Sam: 15.
Travis: 19.
Laura: 22.
Liam: 15.
Matt: All right. Glancing about, mostly human crew. There is one elf, a female, who's part of the crew, who handles most direct navigation with the captain now, and you hadn't met before. Her name is Julia, and she seems nice enough. There is a female halfling who has very nice, clean-cut hair, pulled into a heavy ponytail in the back. And as she smiles, you can see her somewhat broken and rotted teeth. As you guys give the whole look-over, she smiles and looks a little nervous at the rest of you. You take a closer look and you pick up on it, Vex. This is one of the bandits, the one you took captive on the journey over to Vasselheim.
Laura: The one that I harpooned!
Matt: Yes. She apparently has become one of the crew now.
Laura: Wow. Well, we vouched for her at the time.
Marisha: We wanted her, right? Are we cool?
Travis: She dies.
Taliesin: Good for you. Excellent.
Marisha: What's her name? Did we ever get a name from her?
Matt: Teela.
All: Teela.
Matt: Teera, sorry. R. Teera. I had it written down. I should look at my sheet first.
Taliesin: And there's no magic attempts to hide somebody's face or anything like that?
Matt: No. You guys all give a good look and a very thorough inspection of the crew, and they all seem legitimate.
Taliesin: And this is everybody?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Captain.
Matt: "Yes?"
Travis: Who is it that's in charge of your seaworthy navigations? The newest member of your crew you mentioned?
Matt: "Well, that would be Teera. She's actually been all about this ocean. Not necessarily by skyship, but she knows the area as well, and has since studied up and has become a very esteemed member of our crew." He looks to her, and Teera's smile broadens again. "That is correct. I'm happy to help in wherever it is you're looking to go. Where are you going?"
Sam: Shall we lay it on them, then? We're going to go near the island of glass, aka Glintshore.
Matt: You watch her face go, and Captain Damon goes, "Why Glintshore? That place is a rocky waste."
Sam: Well, we're not going there. We're going near it to find a shipwreck.
Matt: "Shipwreck? There's probably hundreds of them! The place is dotted with reefs."
Taliesin: We're looking for a ship called The Shrew.
Matt: "So you're wanting us to take you to the Hespet Archipelago."
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: There is another ship on the way there, as well.
Travis: Some say arch-ipelago, but yeah.
Taliesin: There may be trouble.
Sam: The other ship may already be there, and if we can find the other ship, then we've found our destination.
Matt: "Right. The arch-ipelago. Let's see. We have no sundry we're holding, so we're at maximum speed. I'd say two, maybe three days of travel, depending on weather."
Sam: Just to get in the area. It'll take us another day or two to find this ship.
Taliesin: Well, not necessarily. Every day we scry. Every day we hone in. We keep following where they're going.
Marisha: Ideally, she does the hard work for us.
Travis: It's worth noting as well that if we do find this ship, we do not mean her well.
Matt: "I can only assume, going to Hespet."
Marisha: You seem very familiar with this place. Do you have more information?
Liam: Or apprehension?
Matt: "Hespit is a-- the whole network of islands there is a haven for criminals, fugitives, pirates, and everyone else who generally keeps away from the large continents. So you go without guard, stay without threat, you're likely to be bent into slavery, or end up left bleeding somewhere on the shoreline."
Travis: Is that a promise?
Laura: We're super powerful.
Liam: You do the flying. We'll do the fucking shit up.
Matt: "We'll have to come in low, most likely. I don't want to try and draw attention to this ship, because I'm sure it would fetch quite a penny if it were to fall into the hands of--"
Travis: I'm sure Keyleth would provide you with some cover as well.
Matt: "Well, that would be very much appreciated."
Marisha: I could do that.
Matt: "Thankfully Glintshore itself is pretty much useless to most of their standards of business practices. It's mostly ignored by them, from what I know at least of what they do, but still, just to be safe and be careful."
Sam: Has Teera been around there? Does she know anything of that particular shipwreck?
Matt: He's about to talk and Teera pipes up, "I do, actually, and I will be guiding us directly to it, so don't worry."
Sam: To the shipwreck?
Matt: "Not to the shipwreck, but to the Glintshore."
Sam: Have you heard of that shipwreck? The Shrew?
Matt: "I have not. But there are plenty of shipwrecks in the area. I'm sure there's much to recover, if that's what you're looking for."
Laura: No, we'll stick with the Shrew.
Matt: "I'll take you where I can."
Travis: The island of glass, is it called that because of a glass production site? (laughter)
Sam: Yep.
Laura: Was that hard for you, Grog?
Travis: I hurt myself.
Matt: Captain Damon says, "I don't know the history, exactly, but at some point in time, something really bad happened. All the sand of the shores were fused into dark brown and black glass. It's a jagged landscape, leading all the way up to the mountain. The jungle is petrified and dead. It's not a welcoming place. I'm surprised why anyone would pay so much to go there. But I'm sure you have your reasons."
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to see if that sounds familiar?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: Beasts or something that would happen-- Heat, a lot of fucking heat. 26.
Matt: To fuse the beaches, or an island its entirety, would require such extreme, fierce heat. This is going through your mind as well, Percy, being a man who understands this science very well. Something very bad had to have happened here a long time ago on a very large scale to render an island pretty much covered in glass.
Laura: Do you think this is where they knocked Thordak down? Didn't they fight Thordak in the ocean?
Marisha: That's what my thought was. Would a dragon's breath?
Matt: A dragon's breath would fuse a small chunk of the beach here.
Marisha: What about if a bunch of sorcerers and magic users got together and made a big nuke?
Matt: That's possible. Very little chance there would be any survivors.
Liam: Like a meteor or a comet from the sky.
Taliesin: Even a comet wouldn't be enough. This is big.
Marisha: Keyteor.
Matt: As you guys are having this conversation, he goes, "The mountain still stands. The jungle still stands, though petrified and burnt. I know not the means that brought it to where it is, but it's been that way for as long as we have history on it. Long ago."
Marisha: How long ago was it?
Matt: "I'm assuming the Age of Arcanum if anything."
Travis: Right. You said we have quarters on this ship; do you mind if I sleep under the stars?
Matt: "Be my guest."
Travis: Rocking. Going to commune with nature in my own way. Fart in the wind.
Taliesin: I'm going to be far away from that.
Travis: No one wants to join me? Get all hippie up on the deck of the ship?
Laura: I'll do that! I'll sleep out, and Trinket will want to do that as well.
Liam: I actually do, yeah.
Matt: (bear noises)
Laura: Stars, Trinket. Beautiful.
Liam: Speaking of heat, make with the bed farts, Trinket. I get cold at night.
Sam: Keyleth, make sure you learn your scrying spells for tomorrow. Do we still have that ball, the scry-ball?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: We'll have two scrys tomorrow if you learn the spell.
Marisha: I could theoretically do three scrys tomorrow. I could theoretically do five scrys tomorrow.
Travis: I pay super close attention, but after we gave them the destination, did they tell us how long it would take?
Sam: Two, three days.
Matt: Depending on the weather.
Travis: What if we pass over the ship in the night?
Taliesin: Then we'll attack them in the night.
Sam: How will we see them? Is there someone who stands watch at night?
Marisha: She knows where we're going, so she'll let us know if we get there?
Sam: But we're looking for the boat, not the island.
Taliesin: The boat itself. There's work that always needs to be done. There'll be lights, unless they are hiding.
Liam: You can alert one of us if we come upon a ship in the night or day, correct?
Matt: "I have to sleep at some point as well."
Liam: Of course, but someone is awake?
Matt: "Deshall, who is my second in command, will take over while I'm sleeping. There will be someone here, along with a few hands, taking shifts as well at all times."
Marisha: I describe the ship to them from what I've seen.
Laura: But it's in the ocean, isn't it? And we're very high above it?
Travis: Do we want to go lower?
Sam: Yes.
Travis: How high off the deck, would you say?
Sam: Off the sea? Three, maybe four feet? No. I don't know, couple hundred feet? You're the captain.
Matt: "We're okay for now. High is fine. But once we get close to the archipelago we'll want to make sure that we keep within 100 feet of the surface. I could take it into the ocean. This can work as a functional ship in the water."
Travis: Shut the hell up! Well, we want to stay out, right now.
Matt: "Well then, you seem weary enough. You may have your rest, and rest assured that we'll be to your destination as soon as this ship can carry us. I'm going to rest myself." He goes down to his quarters and Deshall takes over, who is mid-thirties, grizzled, scruff on his chin, but put together well, hair parted to one side, not a man of many words. He takes over the helm and keeps it going through the night. You guys go ahead and rest for the evening?
Liam: I'm going to meditate for an hour before bed.
Travis: Could I take a shot of the sandkheg bottle? I would like to slowly start building up an immunity.
Matt: All righty. Make a constitution saving throw, Grog.
Liam: (Grog voice) Meaning I would like to get fucked up on a regular basis.
Travis: 29.
Matt: You drink it. You feel the sparkling numbness begin to spread across your throat. It's strange. It's weird. It's exhilarating. It triggers your adrenaline, and you almost go into a rage from the instinctual reaction of that sort of chemical release in your brain. You hold it in place, and you sit there a second and stare as it slowly goes down your system. You feel the warm, curling burn from inside your belly that fine alcohol gives you, that little shimmer of pins and needles down the back of your neck and your spine. Your vision begins to blur a little bit. It takes you a lot of alcohol to get trashed, but you're a little buzzed.
Travis: Sick. Awesome. Well played, sandkheg. I go to sleep.
Matt: With your nightcap, you are good to go. Looking under the stars, you finish your meditation. Everyone else, you go to rest fine. Throughout the evening you sleep. The last thing you see before you go to bed is the edge of the mountain range, late into the night, and a small sparkle in a crescent shape. You ask one of the hands to the side. He points over and says, "The Bay of Gifts." This is the northern side where you see Shamal, the port city. That's the last little bastion of civilization of Marquet as it begins to approach from underneath as you all go to sleep. The continent is behind you.
Marisha: How many hours has it been?
Matt: When you come to consciousness after the evening's rest--
Laura: I want to hold Fenthras in my hand and keep thinking about the things Saundor said.
Matt: After a good eight hour rest for all of you to recover yourselves, hit points, everything, spells, you come to. The warmth of the sun is what kicks you into consciousness. It's been about 13 hours since you guys left. Eight hours of rest. You had five hours of travel northward until you began to reach the northern end of the continent on this skyship.
Taliesin: This might be the best sleep that we've gotten in months, at this point. Like babies.
Sam: Is it morning time?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: You want to do that morning scry?
Marisha: Yeah, morning scry.
Taliesin: I'm going to sit down with a pen and paper, ready to write!
Marisha: Yeah, morning constitutional, here we come. Bust out whatever magazines they have nearby. Cup of coffee, first.
Matt: All right. Using the same journal?
Taliesin: Let's use the gun now. Let's go nuts.
Sam: Now that it's been de-cursed, will that mess up--
Taliesin: It's got a lot of her work in it.
Matt: All right, are you using the crystal first?
Marisha: Yeah. Crystal first.
Matt: What's the crystal DC? Because it's not your actual spell, which I should have remembered last time. I mean, she rolled low enough last time that it wasn't an issue.
Marisha: It doesn't say.
Matt: Okay, then it should be 15. That's a natural one. As you're concentrating on the scry spell, your vision once again is thrust through the clouds, thrown down over the ocean. You see for a brief moment a cluster of dark land, roughly in the shape of a bean or a cashew from this perspective, and then it flashes downward and you can see a ship. A ship that is on the water. It is stationary.
Marisha: Docked, like anchors down?
Matt: Seemingly. The sails aren't up.
Travis: It's not at land? It's in the water?
Matt: Yeah. Your vision flashes again and you can see the crew have all gathered on the deck, though details of their visage are obscured by the spell. You see Ripley there with her cloak. She is talking to the rest of the crew and goes, "All right, so. We've located it. We have eight hours. Gather your things and drink well." They all pull out these small vials, uncork, and drink down. They all nod. One by one, they start diving off the ship and into the water. Five people, you're not sure of the sex, and Ripley, dive off the side. You're following her as she goes underwater; you can see the bubbles go past. Then the bubbles are no more and you watch as she is now breathing the water like it's air. Swimming downward. All of them are carrying, you see on the side, these heavy rock weights that are letting them guide down deeper into the water as it gets darker, until there's almost nothing to see. Then there's a flicker of light and you see Ripley is now holding her gun. There's a beam of light on the end of it that's giving them torchlight as they go deeper in. Then the spell fades.
Marisha: She's found it. She's there.
Travis: She's got it?
Marisha: She doesn't have it, but she's found the ship. She's right off the shore of the island.
Laura: Can you scry again immediately?
Marisha: She's under the water. I mean, I could.
Travis: How is she under the water?
Marisha: They all took water breathing potions. Her plus five other people.
Taliesin: Was there anything around? Could you see the island in sight?
Marisha: I saw the island. It was dark in landscape.
Matt: It was such a brief shot, because it wasn't the focus of the scry spell. Even the fact that you caught a glimpse of it was a strange side effect of the scry attempt.
Taliesin: Was the sun with the island, or was the sun away from the island? Is there any way to even know that? Were they on the north side or the south side?
Matt: From what you can gather at this time, no. That's part of the scry spell. You wouldn't be able to tell.
Liam: I'm heading over to find the captain and the halfling to ask how far they estimate we are from the island.
Marisha: I heard Ripley say, "We have eight hours."
Laura: That's how long the spell lasts.
Travis: I have two vials of underwater breathing.
Marisha: I'll take water breathing as a spell.
Laura: How many people can you cast it on?
Matt: Water breathing as a spell actually lasts for 24 hours. The potions only last for eight.
Marisha: Is it concentration?
Matt: Nope. It grants up to ten willing creatures you can see--
Marisha: What!? Ten willing?
Laura: That's sick.
Marisha: I got us on lock, you guys.
Taliesin: I had a plan. I'm putting it away.
Matt: Yeah, so the potion enchantments are lesser than the spell, but the actual druidic spell effect is much better. You see him looking off in the distance as you're asking the question. He points and goes, "Well given that might slow us down a bit--" You look ahead and you now see, immediately visible from this point--
Laura: Don't be a green dragon!
Matt: What you are able to make out, because it's a familiar sight to you, are very tall, dark, distant thunderheads. The storm that you saw in your first vision, Keyleth, apparently is still swirling its way through the middle of the ocean. It's violent, it's visceral, and you can see the weight of the water giving it this deep, dark, gray color, and the rest of the ocean below is obscured with the blur of rainfall. He goes, "Those are high clouds. I can't get above them. The enchantment is only so strong to get us into that thinner air. So I recommend everyone hold on."
Liam: Is there anything you can do about this?
Marisha: I can. Get us closer.
Matt: "What?"
Taliesin: Trust her. She's crazy.
Marisha: Straight through, fastest route, captain.
Matt: "Okay, I trust you." He brings it around and begins pulling forward. You can see this little metallic rod on the side and he pushes it forward even further. The crystals flicker for a second and the whole ship leans in a forward direction. It takes about an hour before the shade from the thunderheads, which, you can't even see where they stop, they go up and up and up, begin to meet. You're starting to see flashes in the clouds of lightning.
Marisha: I go ahead and I start casting my first 8th-level spell, which is Control Weather. It's everything I've ever wanted, you guys!
Matt: Yeah, concentration for up to eight hours. So you guys watch as Keyleth stands at the bow of the ship, puts her arms out, and you see the flashes of lightning in the cloud. A bolt strikes her in one arm. She holds it in place. The bolt uses her as a conduit and then vanishes into her arm. Her other arm pulls another bolt to it, and it vanishes into her arm. You can see the energy's now circling around. She brings her arms out and thrusts them into the storm. The lightning protrudes out of each arm. As it hits the clouds, the clouds seem to almost melt away and carve this central path. The clouds are being pushed back, at gale force. These winds are separating them. You watch. For five miles around you, the storm basically parts to nearly nothing except for the very peripheral to the right and left side. You hear Captain Damon go, "Okay! I see your point."
Liam: Hot fucking damn, Keyleth!
Laura: You know, I thought it was a possibility, but this is the first time I'm sure your girlfriend is way cooler than you.
Liam: Everyone knew that.
Matt: So pushing forward, Keyleth is concentrating at the edge of the ship. Her eyes spark with energy. You're almost like the mermaid at the front of the ship at this point. You're right at the front, arms out.
Liam: You're like a reverse Pyro. You're undoing all the violence.
Matt: The shade fades away. The clear blue sky above then invites these warm sun beams down upon the top of the ship.
Laura: I do some sunbathing.
Marisha: I make it temperate with a nice warm breeze.
Sam: Keyleth, can you make the breeze behind us, and can you make it rather strong?
Marisha: Can I do that?
Taliesin: He's reading! He doesn't know.
Sam: Well, you said it lasts eight hours.
Taliesin: He's checking to see if it's a thing you can actually do.
Liam: Checking his stocks. Message from mom.
Matt: What you can do is you can clear the storm for five miles, and then subtly change to a wind stage behind you, yes. I'll let you do that, sure.
Marisha: Make the winds in our favor! I'm drunk on power!
Matt: The wind begins to build from behind. Some of you have to duck down now because it's starting to take. It almost takes your hat off, Scanlan. You catch it. But it is picking up speed and you guys are beginning to coast forward. Occasionally the winds die down as you have to clear more of the storm. Over the next six or so hours, you come out the other side of the storm.
Marisha: I go into a deep meditation. This is some Buddhist shit going on for me right now.
Matt: Perfect. As the storm subsides, your ship has a clear view of distant breaks in the patterns of waves on the horizon. Multiple chained islands, many miles apart from each other, emerge. This, you've now begun to reach, is the Hespet Archipelago. Each of the twelve islands vary in size from massive rock to pebble-like protrusions. They span and are scattered, and the ship begins to veer to the left as the captain begins to zero in on your destination. He yells out, "We're going low! They have visibility!" The ship begins to go into a relatively steep decline. You hear the wood creaking with the sudden shift in direction and weight. The gem on the right side begins to brighten while the one on the left begins to darken slightly, exemplifying the shift in energy and power. Eventually you're brought down, nearly coasting on the surface of the ocean, and as you get to about 40, 50 feet above you see the waves begin to part beneath it as whatever force is holding it there is now pushing the water down. He brings it up a little so it's not breaking the surface and coasts at an even 60 feet above. Pushing forward, you already begin to see what you assume is the Isle of Glintshore. In this clear, sunlit moment, you also see, throughout the ocean, clusters of dangerous, jagged-looking reef, some ten, 15 below the surface, some actually breaching the surface of the ocean, some even deeper. This portion of the ocean is like a maze network of every ship captain's nightmare. You get the feeling why this has become a favored place of criminals to avoid pursuers and also why people who trade avoid it for many reasons, not just those who stay here. And also why the shipwreck probably found its way here. As you begin to grow closer to the island, you see, as it begins to come more into form, there is a singular mountain peak that's shifted mostly to the western side. It's not a super peak. It's a gradual point. You can see a little bit of a brush-like detail of the jungle that you had heard mentioned before. He begins to bring you up towards the southern shore of the island. At this point of perspective, the sunlight that's hitting the island is causing a glittery shift of thousands of points of light across the beach shoreline, deep into where the blackened jungle tree line is. It's beautiful. It's a very strange and awe-inspiring sight, to be such a small little forgotten part of the land and to look so pretty from this distance. The closer you get, the beauty begins to fade as you see the black beaches. You can see the landscape is barren and broken, aside from the ashen gray and black jungle plants and trees that have been left there, dead, for an extended period of time. The mountain itself, the rock itself going from black to a ruddy red and brown color. The sands themselves and the glass surface across the eastern shore that tends to reach out, almost like a mouth of a creature, is rough and varied in topography. You also see, within that bay, a tiny little thing that looks like a ship.
Liam: Are we close enough to see if there's people on the deck?
Matt: You're not close enough. You're barely now seeing that there's a ship.
Marisha: It's been six hours, you said, since I did my scry.
Matt: Probably about seven hours now, since you did the spell.
Laura: They're going to be coming out any minute.
Marisha: They have one hour left.
Laura: Unless they're already out.
Liam: Yeah, that's the duration of the spell, the eight hours. They could be back already.
Marisha: If we have one hour left, they could fail. They could not find it at all.
Laura: Could we shoot the boat from above and destroy their escape?
Travis: Could I make a song request? Could we drop your big rocky ass from 300 feet up right through the bottom of their ship and sink that bitch?
Taliesin: I'll also say, there's nothing a ship doesn't like more than fire.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: I mean, all of these things are very appealing to me right now. I'm just trying to understand why.
Sam: Well, we can't let them escape.
Liam: It's better that they're floating on the water than standing on the ship.
Travis: And if they have a teleportation circle on the boat, we want to destroy it.
Marisha: She also has the cloak we want.
Laura: Right. So we wait until she drowns, and then we take it from her.
Taliesin: We can retrieve it from the bottom of the sea, if we have to.
Marisha: What do we know about magical items? Do they get destroyed by things like fire or me being a meteor?
Matt: Generally, no. Magical items, a part of the enchantment is to make them resistant to the general elements. They endure, and the reason that you find mostly just the enchanted objects in ancient ruins is because everything that would be destroyed by the weathering of time, these items stay relatively pristine.
Marisha: Then yes, I'm down to fuck this shit up.
Laura: I wonder if she hired the boat, or if it's hers. I would hate to kill innocent crew members.
Taliesin: I don't think they're innocent crew members. I think she had help.
Sam: She had five killers with her when she killed those--
Matt: You did see, for the record, in your scrying, while there were five that leapt down with her, there were more on the ship.
Sam: It's fine, we'll throw them a life raft or something.
Liam: Then I'd like to put my vote in for the meteor.
Travis: They're also in the bay, so they can swim to shore.
Liam: Well, we can stop their retreat. They're going to be in worse shape without that boat.
Travis: I want to send a message to the ship, is all.
Matt: The captain's like, "What do you want me to do? Do you want me to head for the ship?"
Sam: Up above the ship.
Travis: And Vax rides Keyleth down, like Dr. Strangelove, the whole way.
Sam: You're going to take a lot of damage?
Marisha: He can fly.
Laura: Can you cast Water Breathing on us before you fly down, and that way-- or is that going to fuck up your spells?
Marisha: It's not a concentration spell, right? Water breathing?
Matt: No, it's not concentration.
Liam: And it lasts a long time.
Laura: 24 hours. So just in case we end up in the water, we're not fucked.
Taliesin: We have ten people, 12 people?
Travis: Last song request. We destroy the ship, right? It (burbling) and they all (burbling) come up to the top, they got to go one place, which is where? The shore. So why don't we wait on the shore?
Marisha: Well do we want to drop your ass off on the shore?
Travis: Oh, yeah, I mean, I'd love to be a welcoming party. I'm just saying, if anyone else wants to come with, that's where I know they'll be going.
Taliesin: I'm hoping to take care of this before the ship even sinks.
Laura: I can be death from above on the broom.
Marisha: This is my favorite plan we've come up with in a long time.
Sam: We should probably make sure that this is the right boat.
Laura: Yes, yes, we need to double check that this is actually the boat.
Marisha: Does this look like the right boat?
Matt: You're a little ways from it. Are you going to wait until you get closer?
Travis: Is there a telescope on this ship?
Matt: There is one that you've been using.
Laura: Can you cast a spell, just in case shit happens, as soon as we get close enough to the ship?
Marisha: Dispel?
Laura: No, the spell, the breathing spell.
Marisha: Oh, yeah. What's our ETA, captain?
Matt: "At this speed, I'd say 20 minutes."
Marisha: I'll wait ten minutes, because I like to milk my time.
Matt: All right, ten minutes go by. Who is keeping watch through the telescope?
Laura: Me.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Sam: Wait, but Keyleth knows what the boat looks like.
Laura: She told me all about it.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25, all right. You're scanning across. Looking at the ship: the sails are up, it is anchored, and there are maybe four individuals who are currently playing cards on the upper deck.
Laura: It looks like the boat's been docked there for a while.
Matt: You also notice, scanning the area, it catches your eye, there's a very lazy, very faint trail that looks like smoke on the shore of the C-shaped bay on the eastern side of the island.
Laura: A camp on the shoreline?
Matt: That might be a source for the smoke.
Laura: Is it close by the boat?
Matt: If you're looking from your perspective, this is the eastern side and it has this C-shaped bay right here, where this is the shoreline. The ship is docked right about here in the water. It's surrounded by a reef. It's barely made its way in there and it can't go any further without hitting reef. The smoke is right there. It's right on the beach side.
Travis: Can we see the other side of the island, or the water on the other side, from this vantage point?
Matt: No, not from this vantage point.
Laura: Can you scry and see if she's still underwater, or if she's camping? Because I see smoke.
Sam: Can Keyleth look through the-- we have a telescope of some sort?
Matt: There is a telescope, yeah.
Sam: Can she look and see if the boat looks right? Did you see any identifying marks on the boat?
Taliesin: It's not like there's going to be a dozen of them out here.
Liam: It would be a very big coincidence.
Marisha: I look through the telescope. Does it look like the same boat?
Matt: Perception check.
Marisha: I rolled an 18, so 29.
Matt: Yes, this is very much the boat. Size, color, shape, placement, this is the same ship.
Travis: Thought we were getting ready to kill a cruise ship.
Marisha: Okay, so am I scrying?
Laura: Well I guess you don't need to now.
Sam: We'd know if she's still underwater or if she's on land.
Laura: There's people on the boat waiting still.
Matt: You are ten minutes from getting there. It takes ten minutes to cast scrying.
Travis: No, we don't need it.
Laura: But you should probably cast breathing.
Marisha: It takes me 30 seconds to scry once I get there.
Sam: Let's scry.
Marisha: I'm going to scry.
Laura: But cast breathing on us first.
Marisha: I'm going to cast Water Breathing, and then I'm going to scry.
Taliesin: Wait, can you do me a favor?
Marisha: I'm dishing them out. I'm the magic ATM right now. What do you want?
Taliesin: Once we're somewhat in the distance, fire an eyeball and get a good look at that ship. I want to see if it's a trap. You have an arrow.
Laura: Yes, I do. Once we get close enough.
Marisha: Okay, so I go to everybody and I say, you have Water Breathing, you have Water Breathing. And everyone has Water Breathing. Then I go, everyone leave me alone for ten minutes. I drop down and I Scry.
Matt: Okay. So you begin concentrating as you guys get closer and closer to the ship. You can now see it getting closer and closer.
Travis: Do we want to raise our elevation as we're getting closer?
Sam: Yeah, we told him to go up above it.
Matt: You guys begin to notice, you, Vex, as you're looking through, the people who were playing cards start moving on the deck of the ship. They start scattering.
Laura: Are they seeing us?
Matt: They have seen you. You're not a hard vision to see once they pay attention.
Laura: Do they look like they're looking over the sides of the boat?
Matt: Roll a perception check.
Sam: This is like the Hindenburg flying up to a rowboat.
Laura: 20.
Matt: No.
Laura: No, they don't look like they're looking over the side of the boat?
Matt: No. Okay, you're starting to get closer and closer. You watch as they all scatter into the bottom of the boat, except for one who stands on the deck. You watch, (launching sound) this one sparkle of bright red arcane energy (fizzing) up into the sky, (explosion)--
Sam: A flare.
Matt: --with a dull burst exploding sound, and then vanishes. The explosion dissipates.
Laura: Yeah, it's a flare.
Sam: To warn the people on land.
Matt: Another one (fizzing).
Laura: Okay, okay. Shit.
Sam: How do we get to land quickly?
Laura: I can fly there on my broom, but I don't fly very quickly.
Taliesin: Are we close enough that one of her arrows can make it?
Matt: No, you're about three minutes out now from approaching it.
Travis: The ship or the shore?
Matt: The ship.
Sam: We should split. Some should go to the beach, some should continue with plan Drop Keyleth--
Travis: I'm going to the beach. I can't, yeah.
Sam: How are you getting to the beach? You can't fly.
Travis: Oh.
Taliesin: Once we're close enough, you can port them down.
Sam: I can make you a thing that flies, to get you there.
Travis: What kind of thing?
Sam: I don't know. Giant eagle?
Travis: You worry about other stuff.
Laura: A pterodactyl.
Travis: That sounds like our only option, yeah.
Laura: Three more minutes of scrying, still? Maybe the scrying was ill-timed.
Matt: Two minutes.
Sam: All right, Grog. You and me. Come on, let's go.
Laura: Oh jeez. I ready the broom. I get on the broom and wait.
Taliesin: Prepare, I'm telling the men, prepare the harpoons. It may be a trap.
Matt: "Understood. Man the harpoons!" You see they all run off to the various, the three different dragon arbalist stations.
Taliesin: Prepare for a hard turn to shore if they begin to show any signs of magical attack.
Matt: "Understood." You can now see the captain's gone into war mode now. He's keeping focus forward as he's pushing the ship.
Travis: How do we communicate with the captain once we're off the ship? Should we give him an earring?
Sam: It won't reach, it's too far. Grog, I can make you a thing that flies. Should I? All right, I make him a giant eagle using Polymorph. I can't do it to me, though, so you're on your own.
Laura: Well you can hop on his back.
Sam: Oh yeah, good call!
Travis: I'm a big-ass eagle.
Matt: Second time. Now the wings flare out, and you remember, oh, flying! I'm smarter! Your Flowers for Algernon moment comes in the form of a feathered bird.
Liam: a^2 + b^2 = c^2.
Travis: No it doesn't.
Matt: Scanlan, you have to rush to get there because he's almost completely taken aback by the moment and goes to fly. You catch him, barely, as he leaps off the side of the ship. You guys head off toward the--
Travis: In a wide arc.
Taliesin: I tell the captain, no matter what happens, use your judgment with any man or sailor who wishes to parlay and come aboard, but if any woman attempts to come on board you do not recognize as one of us, kill her. Kill her immediately.
Travis: What if she's looking like nothing but a--
Laura: Anybody that comes on board, lock them up. Immediately.
Taliesin: At the very least.
Sam: And kill them.
Taliesin: Check for a fake arm, and remove it.
Matt: "Loud and clear."
Laura: I tell Trinket to hop in the necklace because we're going to be traveling very quickly, dear.
Matt: Into the necklace.
Taliesin: I'm trying to use the scope on my big, on Bad News to see if anything interesting is happening on the deck. Can I see the person who was firing the flares?
Matt: The person that's now fired three flares is now running below the deck.
Taliesin: All right. They're all below the deck?
Matt: Seemingly everybody is below the deck right now, yes.
Taliesin: It's a trap. Let's move away from the ship. Move toward the beach.
Sam: But we've got to sink the ship.
Taliesin: We're going to sink this ship from a distance.
Laura: She's still scrying. We can, they might be by the ship.
Taliesin: I tell them to turn. Turn now!
Matt: "Aye, aye!"
Laura: I shoot the arrow and try to get to the boat. The oracle arrow.
Matt: The ship suddenly begins to list very heavily to the left side. All the hands grab hold who are currently stationed at the various elements. You can see things on the deck, ropes and various odds and ends, pieces of metal, coins, all begin drifting to one side, some tumbling over into the ocean below. You all hold on tight as you pull around the side. Keyleth, I need you to make a concentration check.
Laura: Oh, come on!
Matt: I'm giving you advantage because it isn't a huge issue. Constitution saving throw.
Sam: What are they going to do? They don't have anything that can fight us. They're deck hands.
Taliesin: Why are they down below? There's no hiding in the middle of the ocean. That's a death sentence.
Marisha: Okay, 13.
Matt: You're fine. As it's turning, all of a sudden your eyes flare open with vision. So this is not with the journal, correct?
Taliesin: She's still got my gun.
Matt: So what's your spell DC? 19 plus, okay. As the ship lists, your vision flashes and, for a second, your vision focuses on Ripley's face. You see a spark of blue energy, similar to the inside of the cloak that you saw the first time with your vision. The spell kicks out.
Marisha: Son of a bitch!
Laura: Was it underwater? Can you at least tell that much?
Matt: No.
Laura: Fuck. Good times.
Matt: You find yourself sliding.
Liam: Are we above the ship at the moment?
Marisha: I grab Vax for safety.
Matt: All right, you guys hold on. The ship turns, a very quick turn, heading toward the shore.
Taliesin: We are, we've got two fliers. I'm going to, I think it's time, we're going to attack them if we can with the bolts. If that's possible.
Matt: If you give them the order, they will.
Marisha: Percy, I can destroy that ship if we get over it.
Liam: I think we should still go.
Matt: "Are we firing? What do you need?''"
Liam: Keyleth, you ready? Let's go.
Taliesin: Let's fire.
Marisha: I go with Vax.
Taliesin: They're going to go. I'm going to fire on the ship. Fire on the ship!
Matt: "Fire!" He yells out. You watch as the arbalists all pull back, (arrows releasing). As they release it, they have these giant, hard, dark iron bolts that are loaded into these. As they release them, they go traveling through the dragon's mouth. The dragon's mouth bursts into flame and lights the bolts into arcane fire. All launch off and arc downward. One of them misses, (splashing) into the water, but two go slamming into the side of the ship. You see wood splintering. You see flames begin to crawl along the side while both of you, what are you doing?
Marisha: I'm holding on to him, piggyback ride style.
Liam: I'm on your back, or piggyback? Aren't you going earth elemental?
Marisha: I got to get over the ship. I can't fly as an earth elemental!
Liam: Here we go!
Matt: All right, as she's saying this, you leap off, wings go out, coasting down over the ship. You begin to glide under as you can see the explosions. They begin loading up the second round of assault on the ship. You arc around, keeping her on your back. You guys are coming down toward the ship. You now watch as another volley, two miss but a third one hits. Another splinter of various pieces of the ship bow torn asunder.
Marisha: I wait until he gets me over top of the boat. As soon as he gets me over top.
Matt: You coast up on the side. You watch as one of the three large masts begins to slowly fall over from the impact of the various assaults from the ship. You are now up over the ship itself.
Liam: You ready to do this?
Marisha: Nice and high, nice and high!
Liam: All right, we're going to twist in the air! Here we go!
Matt: As this is happening, you see one of them has come over from inside of the ship and is watching this attack happen. You can barely see, he looks harried but he looks up and releases.
Marisha: I let go. We're over the boat?
Matt: You guys are over the boat now, yes.
Taliesin: Is there any way I could have gotten any of this in my scope?
Matt: You know what, yes. Well make a perception check first, actually, to see if you've seen this.
Liam: As we're twisting in the air, I cast Bless on Keyleth and myself.
Matt: Make a concentration check because you are flying. A constitution saving throw.
Liam: 18. That means that you and I, whenever we make an attack roll or a saving throw for the next minute, add a d4.
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: 14? You can make the attack. It'll be at disadvantage because of the distance. This is with Bad News, I assume?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: So disadvantage on the attack. Are you using any grit or anything?
Taliesin: Not cool! I'm already shaky today. Yeah, you know what, I'll use a grit to deadeye the shot, to cancel out the disadvantage.
Matt: All right, go ahead and make your roll.
Laura: Who are you shooting?
Sam: The guy on deck who just went like this.
Laura: Oh, I thought he already ran under.
Matt: No, he came up onto the deck to do something. He barely saw, and he's taking a shot.
Taliesin: That's not bad. 24.
Matt: 24 hits. Go ahead.
Liam: Bullet cam!
Taliesin: Let me find the correct dice for this. 23 points of piercing damage.
Matt: The individual reaches up and you see a burst of electrical energy fire up in the direction of both of you. Right as, head shot on the side of the skull, sending him face down and bleeding onto the now raging fire that is the top of this ship. Both of you guys have advantage on a dexterity saving throw.
Marisha: Wait, what?
Taliesin: He still got a shot off, but it went wild.
Marisha: Natural 20!
Liam: And I have a 28.
Matt: All right. So both of you take 14 points of lightning damage as the Lightning Bolt barely skims past you. Vax, you, scooting off, your wings burned by the electrical impact, but you're off to the side. Keyleth, you're now in freefall over the ship.
Liam: Can I use evasion?
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Liam: So that's, if I succeed the dex, yeah, it's every turn.
Matt: Seven.
Liam: It halves it, right?
Matt: It was 14 because you made the save, and then seven.
Marisha: I blow Vax a kiss and then I go earth elemental. I light up my flaming hands! And then I go Keyteor.
Liam: See you later!
Matt: Your Keyteor, as you coined it, is now this ball of condensed rock, a trail of flame behind it. (whistling) (crashing) Slams into the ship. I want you to go ahead and roll 6d6 points of damage. Plus a d4.
Marisha: 6d6. There's got to be one more for this. Don't fuck me.
Liam: How do you even know which ones you rolled? It looks like 80 dice.
Marisha: Well all of them. 21. Plus one. Oh wait. 22, plus do I roll my flame hands?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Marisha: 27.
Matt: Boom! You punch through the upper deck of the ship, smack through the central deck of the ship, and slam into the base, splintering wood, but the actual bottom of the ship is still intact. However, from the impact and everything that's going on, the flames trail through and begin to burn. You see as, looking down at you, one of the crewmen who was underneath is now a pulp beneath your elemental feet. Another one is now scrambling back up to the top amidst the chaos.
Marisha: I get up and I say  Sorry!
Matt: As you pull your foot out, water begins to pour inside. Apparently your feet punched through, and now it's beginning to quickly (splashing sounds). Water's beginning to pour out of the ocean and fill the bottom of the ship.
Marisha: I tell the guys above  Swim to shore!
Matt: It sounds, (loud gravelly gibberish). They're like (yelling).
Laura: While this is happening, can I have taken a flying run off of the airship and started flying toward the smoke? The campfire?
Matt: You dart off with the broom underneath and scoot off toward the bay. You guys have made your way, flying down, on eagle-Grog-back to the beach, coasting up to the side. You can see, as you scoot across to the top about ten feet up, all the jagged, broken glass that is this beach. It is similar to the broken, burnt ground of the Cindergrove, except it's all sharp. It's not fun. You come around and make a perception check, Grog. With your bonus. I think you have advantage on this because you're a giant eagle. Let me double check really fast. I'm pretty sure. Giant eagle, you have advantage on perception checks, so yeah, roll twice.
Travis: Same number. And do I get a bonus on the--
Matt: Well, your wisdom is plus two.
Travis: 15.
Matt: 15. As you're coming along, you do see, there appears to be some semblance of a smoldering fire that is giving off a hint of a trail of smoke. There's a couple of things on the ground around it, and there are two small boats that are up against, up on the shore. They look like little skiffs or paddle boats that probably belong to the ship.
Travis: I fly over. I'm going to make a low buzz over the campfire, but keep going along the beach. Not landing at the boat or the fire.
Matt: You keep going. Vex, you see the eagle swoop past with Scanlan on the back. Are you heading to catch up with them?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so you guys have Vex coming and meeting up alongside you guys now, as you're flying and coasting. From the side, you see this broom-riding Vex lean forward, go over and give you a wink from the side as you begin heading along the upper coast, the curvature of the beach, heading towards the east.
Taliesin: Vax, Keyleth, search the ship. Take anything you think might be hers.
Liam: How far am I from Percival on the airship?
Matt: You've probably looped around, and you're probably halfway between the ship, which is now heading back toward the shore, and the boat on the ground that is now, both masts are now in complete flames. The sail is on fire. Two of the crewmen, the two crewmen who haven't really been hurt have jumped off the sides and are now swimming through the water. You can see their trail behind them. The one who was shot in the head, you can't see through the flames. It wasn't enough to kill him, that wasn't. However, the whole ship is on fire now. The one that you impacted with is a mess, Keyleth.
Liam: Then I'm beelining straight through the air towards Percival.
Taliesin: Stay with Keyleth! Check the ship!
Marisha: I crush everything.
Taliesin: Search the ship, Keyleth. Search it.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: Me?
Matt: Yeah. You can still hear him, he's telling you this through your earring.
Taliesin: Take the captain's quarters. You can breathe underwater. Tear it apart as it's going down.
Matt: As an earth elemental, roll an investigation minus three because your intelligence is five. You are dumber than Grog as an earth elemental.
Marisha: Natural 20! There's no reason that should have happened!
Matt: I agree! As water is filling the bottom, and you're not very good at treading water in this form. You're sinking with the ship pretty much. It's (burbling noises). Thankfully you can breathe water because you still have the enchantment on you. Glancing around, you do see what amounts to a bunch of notes, papers, that are all soaked in water, that you palm with your elemental hand. And you keep it there, grab a couple, and you now have two fists filled with papers. You don't know what they are or what's on them. You can't even read in this form, technically, but you're now underwater and the ship is breaking and falling. You can watch as the flames above, the glow is growing dimmer as the water is beginning to take the fire. It's slowly falling into the bay.
Taliesin: Start walking to the beach, Keyleth. Get to the beach.
Marisha: Yeah, I guess I start toward the beach. Well that's going to take a long time. The ship is sinking, right?
Matt: Yeah, you're probably, now, the ship is probably 30 feet below the surface and falling, you with it.
Marisha: I'm going to drop my form.
Matt: Okay, you're back into Keyleth form and immediately the lack of mass, the ship begins to fall below you as you keep buoyancy now. The hole that you broke through is now this opening that you can swim up to get out of the wreckage of the ship.
Marisha: Okay, I take all the papers and I shove them in a pocket, and I'm going to cast Control Water. I'm going to shoot myself up and out.
Matt: Like a waterspout. You watch as Keyleth is jettisoned out of the ocean and then begins to lightly surf along the surface, standing.
Laura: Percy!
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Make sure the airship stays far away from these boats. I don't want Ripley having any access to the airship.
Sam: On the beach, we're going around, along the beach. Is there a tree line?
Matt: The tree line is further inland, maybe about 300 feet inland? Most of the open glass shore is on the eastern and southern side. On the north and northwestern side is where the mountain is, and the jungle surrounds most of the mountain, and a lot of the western side of the island.
Sam: I shout down to Grog  I don't think she's on the beach, man! It's all glass! We should go inland.
Travis: We turn inland.
Matt: Okay, you guys go ahead and take off inland.
Liam: Am I closing on Percy?
Matt: You're making your way toward the ship, yeah. The ship is faster than you.
Liam: Oh really?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: I click my boots of haste, then. I can go 500 feet in a round.
Matt: 500 feet?
Liam: 480, yeah. If I use double dash, yeah, action action.
Matt: Well your flying speed is, what, 60?
Liam: I mean, I did the math at one point. I know it's 480 feet. My speed, flying, is 60.
Matt: You can dash as a bonus action, right?
Liam: As a bonus action, yeah, but if I'm hasted, it's doubled. So it's 60, it's 120, action, action, bonus action, so 120 plus 120, and then bonus action, I can also dash. I don't know.
Matt: You can catch up to the ship with haste, yes. So you click your boots of haste and all of a sudden, your wings, the feathers themselves almost thin out, they retract in. You become less of a bird and more of a bullet, coasting forward at a downward arc. You eventually catch up to the back outer side of the airship as it's bearing down on the smoke spiral and the innermost part of the bay beach line.
Liam: I'm going to pick you up, you haughty prick! And I reach out my arms and grab him from behind.
Matt: Okay. You almost drop Bad News at the sudden impact, but you grab it and hold on to it as you're lifted up again over the air. Another uncomfortable height experience. You've had a couple of these recently. But it's swift enough to the point, and not prolonged, to the point where you're able to keep yourself in check. You begin to carry him down--
Liam: Barrel roll, and follow my sister.
Matt: Okay, so now all of you guys are this loose squadron along the beach line. As you watch, they turn off and begin to head toward the tree line.
Laura: Can I get a closer look at the campsite?
Matt: You'd probably have to stop and inspect it if you want.
Laura: Is there anybody that I can see around it from above?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Yes, 30, then.
Matt: From what you can see, the campsite, the fire has the smoldering element that, from your experience with campfires, means it's probably been burning for anywhere from four to five hours and is towards the end of its life. Whatever wood was in there is on the very very last cinders. There appear to be some elements in detail, some heavy movement right around it in the shoreline there. There's a little bit of silt that has washed up onto the glass, so right next to the waterline there is still a meeting of underwater dirt and silt and where the glass begins to take over. And you can see a bunch of shifting in that area, but you're too far away to make out any details. But other than that, you don't see any hint of people or life around that site.
Travis: Can Scanlan and I make a loop heading towards the tree line and then stop, I'd say, 100 feet from where the water hits the shore?
Matt: Okay, so you head to the tree line and then you stop about 100 feet out, about halfway between the shore and the tree line?
Travis: Right, yeah, not all the way.
Matt: You hit there and you end up stopping, (whooshing) land, and you land in the one area where it appears the least painful to land on. Now, for all intents and purposes, this entire landscape is considered rough terrain, so your speed is halved. You can run full speed if you want, but you will take damage in doing so.
Liam: Ugh, Lego, it's all made of little Legos!
Matt: Kind of, yeah. So you land. Scanlan, you're on the back of Grog and you're now standing in the center of this open beach area.
Sam: I'm scanning around for any footprints or anything.
Travis: As he's scanning, I peck him in the shoulder.
Sam: Ow, ow! Fuck, ow!
Marisha: So we've all convened on the shore at this point?
Matt: You see them land a little ways up from the shore. Vex, are you landing with them?
Laura: No, I wanted to fly down a little closer and see if I can see any footprints, and see where they lead.
Matt: Okay, so you watch Vex spiral off and head to the actual campsite at the edge of the beach. What are you two doing?
Taliesin: Keyleth, can you meet up with us?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm meeting up with them on the shore I guess.
Liam: I'm a Vax backpack, so we'll just--
Taliesin: At the campfire.
Matt: So you guys (whooshing) come down and land at the campfire as you watch Keyleth water-skiing right up to the edge of the beach, where, as soon as the water ends, you have to catch yourself, but you catch yourself. As you now stand here at the beach, the little hint of the flaming wreckage of the ship in the distance finally sinking below the surface of the water; the gallant eagle, Grog, standing off a little ways, with Scanlan Shorthalt raising a fist to the air; we're going to end our session for today. Give us some fun to explore next episode.
Marisha: But there was so much more to do!
Taliesin: I am having such a Robert Louis Stevenson moment right now. I'm so excited.
Sam: We finished before eleven!
Taliesin: No we did not!
Matt: Yes we did! I intended that because we've gone long a lot of weeks!
Taliesin: I cannot imagine that I might actually get four hours of sleep tonight. That's amazing.
Matt: I'm going to write more campaign setting. Guys, awesome episode, well done.
Liam: That was a great game, Matt.
Matt: Good stuff, guys.
Travis: Thank you to our sponsor, Backblaze!
Sam: Did they run a commercial during the break?
Laura: I hope so, because I love those commercials.
Travis: Those commercials are fucking hilarious.
Matt: All right, guys, well, thank you very much, rest well, you guys as well. Thank you so much for all your awesome support in watching the show. We appreciate everything, and--
Travis: And next Thursday you can see us at Game the Game the hour beforehand.
Matt: Game the Game, 5 30 to 6 30, going into our next episode of Critical Role and have a good night. Is it Thursday yet? [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: -- tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. We are down one Sam, unfortunately, tonight, so Scanlan will be Jaeger-piloted by Keyleth and Percy over there, and Pike is still in New York, but in trade, we do have Rothfuss joining us this week via Skype. (cheering)
Matt: To continue the journey of Kerrek along with these crazy kids. So thank you for joining us, Patrick.
Liam: Look at his beautiful office and all his beautiful owlbears.
Marisha: So many owlbears!
Matt: It's beautiful. Cool, so before we get into the game tonight, let's go ahead and do our announcements. First and foremost, we are starting with our first official sponsorship of the year with the return of Lootcrate. Thank you so much for being amazing supporters of the show and we're excited to get started. Liam, you wanted to talk about this one?
Liam: Oh my gosh, Sam is not here and I got asked to do something ten minutes ago. This is gonna be so good. In Sam and Lootcrate's honor, I have written a limerick. I think you'll all approve. And then I'll tell you a little bit about Lootcrate, but first, some Irish poetry. Sam's style is not what you'd call quaint, let's be honest, my man is no saint, but Lootcrate is happy, his pitch plans are snappy, singing songs about fisting and taint. (laughter)
Liam: Okay! So Lootcrate, the January theme is not 'taint' or 'fisting', it's 'origins'. The brands are Superman, Marvel, TMNT, Nintendo, I know everyone here's familiar. The cutoff-- you have to order now, the cutoff is 9PM tonight.
Matt: 9PM tonight.
Liam: So you gotta go get got, and you want to go to lootcrate.com/criticalrole. Not critrole, but lootcrate.com/criticalrole. And the promo code is 'criticalrole', one word, for 10% off your first month.
Matt: Rockin'.
Liam: Also taint.
Laura: Thank you, Lootcrate. We're glad to have you back.
Matt: We can't talk about the taint theme. That doesn't happen until April.
Laura: So excited about it, though. Just so excited.
Liam: There are some exclusives.
Matt: There are some inclusives. So anyway. I also wanted to give a shout-out to Blue Mics, Blue Microphones, they have been fantastic and sent us a bunch of new equipment here to start upgrading the audio quality of our fantastic show here and us personally, as voice actors, I myself have used Blues for quite a long time for home auditions and I'm hoping that the one that now sits before me will give you a little bit of a better boost from my usual audio. So thank you guys so much, Blue Mics, for helping support us here. If you're interested at all in checking out their awesome audio equipment, you can go to them at bluemic.com. That's B-L-U-E-M-I-C.com. Thank you guys.
Taliesin: I cannot say enough good stuff.
Matt: Laura, you wanted to talk about stuff?
Laura: Oh my gosh. Okay, okay, okay, I'll stop rolling for a second, because we have these new things in the store, and they're socks. (gasping)
Laura: I know, I know, I put 'em in front of everybody. They don't smell yet, 'cause nobody's worn them. They should be in the store right now. They say 'how do you want to do this?' and they've got the logo on it, and if they do well, then maybe we'll think about releasing some Sox Machina in all the different characters. I know, it's exciting, it's fun. And also, the dice are still in the works, those should be coming up soon, hopefully by this month, maybe next month, but they will be back in the store. We have pins, we have bracelets, limited stock of those are back in the store, too, so. That's so exciting. And all the other things that I've been announcing every week because, you know, we're just so on top of it, no big deal. (laughter)
Travis: Can we keep these?
Laura: Yeah, no, these are for us.
Travis: Yay! These will stink in a week.
Matt: Please bring them back next week and show us.
Laura: Can I just tell everybody how much I miss having you next to me, boo?
Marisha: Aww.
Laura: I'm sad you're not over here.
Travis: Oh, we're not in character yet, right? I miss you too.
Matt: Aww. Stop it. Next thing I want to announce is there's a convention coming up in February called Anime Milwaukee, February 17-19, in which me, Marisha, Travis, and Laura will be in attendance as guests. So come join us for an awesome Critical Role panel, we'll have signings throughout the weekend, our other panels about voiceover and other elements of chaos. So if you're in that area, please come and say hi. Bring things for us to sign.
Travis: Yeah, bring a bathing suit, I hear there's a pool party on Saturdays in the negative-two-degree weather.
Laura: Oh, god. Is it really that cold?
Travis: I don't know. It's Milwaukee.
Marisha: Yeah, it's by the lake, too, you got that lake-effect air.
Matt: Dress warm, just in case. Anything else anyone wishes to discuss or mention? Patrick, anything you wanna mention?
Patrick rothfuss: You guys are coming to my state? You're gonna be in Wisconsin? When's that?
Matt: That is February 17-19.
Travis: But we're not gonna see you. (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: You act like you have a choice. (laughter)
Matt: So yeah. Come see us!
Patrick rothfuss: I'll see, I'll check my calendar to see, that'll be a short trip if you're just down in Milwaukee.
Laura: Oh my gosh, Patrick dinner.
Patrick rothfuss: That would be awesome.
Matt: So look for a bearded fellow with sunglasses and a hoodie at the convention. Well, cool. Thank you guys so much. Now that our announcements are done, let's go ahead and dive in to tonight's episode of Critical Role. [no audio] [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back. (laughs) Yeah, that was a great countdown. So, to bring us into the story, and get you guys up to speed, the adventuring group of Vox Machina had been battling the Chroma Conclave, a collection of ancient chromatic dragons that had terrorized the Tal'Dorei countryside, ruined a number of the villages and cities, their leader, Thordak the Cinderking, lording over the capital city of Emon for a number of weeks at this point. In order to prepare themselves for this battle, they have traversed the planes and all across the world to acquire Vestiges of Divergence, these powerful artifacts, and upon acquiring them and gathering allies, they made an assault, with the help of these allies, upon the city of Emon, defeated Thordak the Cinderking, and, after making an alliance with one of these Conclave members, Raishan, the Diseased Deceiver, to aid them in this battle, they ended up battling Raishan as well within Thordak's lair beneath the city. Raishan nearly annihilated the entirety of the group Vox Machina, kept at bay only by them summoning one of their allies, J'mon Sa Ord, the powerful brass dragon and secret leader of the city of Ank'harel. Enough of a threat to push her away, Raishan took the corpse of Thordak, apparently via teleportation, as well as two of the eggs that remained in the lair, and vanished. Upon wrestling your way outside of the lair itself, you came upon a number of allies who had fought their way to the center of the city, as well as Patrick's character Kerrek, who had brought a number of his ragtag adventurers from the city of Westruun to aid. Kerrek joined you in your return to Whitestone, and has now agreed to aid you in your search for the current whereabouts of Raishan. Through the use of some rather rapid scry magic and the dragon's spent capability to defend against it at the time, you found the location of Raishan, apparently a distant island to the far south in the Lucidian Ocean, one that once was the lair of Thordak before he was sealed, and before that, apparently belonged to a necromancer named Opash. You then spent the evening in Whitestone-- or, I guess, the day, since you slept through the day-- in Whitestone, preparing to rest for a coming conflict, giving chase to Raishan in hopes of stopping whatever her plans are before they come to fruition. So. That is when we dive back in. So all of you guys have had a full night's rest, you're back up to your full hit points, you regain half of your spent hit dice. Spells are back. I know we had a few characters level. We had Scanlan level, Percy levelled, and Pike levelled.
Laura: So we're just gonna choose an eighth-level for Pike, but it won't stick if she wants to not have that be it, right?
Matt: Yeah. Sure. It's fine, as a cleric, you have access to all the cleric spells.
Laura: Oh, so she doesn't have to choose one like a ranger?
Matt: No, no, no. That's kind of the benefits of the cleric and the wizard, is they have a larger breadth of spells, druids as well.
Laura: Oh, that's great. Well, never mind!
Liam: We're gonna pick Power Word Kill Green Dragon.
Laura: Yeah, Power Word Kill Green Dragon for her eighth-level spell.
Matt: She's taking Power Word Kill?
Liam: Green Dragon.
Laura: Specifically.
Marisha: Can she do that?
Laura: No, no.
Marisha: Okay. I was just like, is that allowed?
Liam: You don't know.
Marisha: All right. All right.
Matt: So. If you guys wanna get your-- any attunement changes you want to situate for the coming party company move.
Liam: Yeah. I would like my boots back, and I've been sort of dreading this moment. Can I have my boots back?
Laura: They look so good on me. Have you noticed?
Liam: It's all I've noticed for the last 24 hours when we were fighting. I mean, we probably would've killed her yesterday, but I was so distracted by how good you looked in the boots, yeah.
Laura: I know, I know.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: I mean, like, really good.
Liam: Strategically, I think I can actually do more, and I think I'm more likely to get a little more bang for my buck out of them.
Laura: Oh, really? Strategically, you can do more than me?
Liam: Never mind. I'll use the sword--
Laura: No, no, no, I'll give them to you, I'll give them to you.
Liam: That was as painful as I imagined it would be.
Travis: It could've been worse.
Liam: Yes, it could've been. Percy, would you like this sword back?
Taliesin: You know...
Liam: Or anybody. Yeah, the sword.
Laura: It's the Dragonkilling sword.
Liam: I just, I'm better when I'm maneuverable, and I feel like I'm gonna get one swing and a miss and it go to waste.
Laura: Oh, jeez. Who needs it? Can anybody take it?
Taliesin: I will admit, if I get within striking distance, I'm probably--
Travis: Can I see it?
Liam: Sure you can. Here's the handle.
Marisha: Proper handling techniques.
Travis: What, really? (gasps) I'll have it.
Laura: Should I do stealth cloak or should I do--
Matt: You guys have also taken some time to inspect the other items that you received from the treasure hoard.
Laura: Get me out of this bench situation!
Marisha: Gimme those, gimme those, gimme those boots.
Matt: Boots to Keyleth, and this to whoever, the hammer.
Travis: The hammer. There's a hammer?
Matt: It's a warhammer.
Travis: What? Who found a warhammer? I was asleep.
Laura: Hold on, hold on, I'll pass it over to you. I'm not even going to read it, Keyleth.
Taliesin: Chapter one.
Laura: Okay, wait. The Dwarven Thrower, this is the warhammer. Okay. You gain a +3 attack bonus, bonus to attack and damage rolls. It has a thrown property. Normal range of 20 feet and a long range of 60 feet, Grog. When you hit with a ranged attack using this weapon, it deals an extra 1d8 damage or, if the target is Giant, which a dragon is, 2d8 damage.
Matt: Like an actual giant.
Laura: Oh, 'is a giant'. Never mind. Immediately after the attack, the weapon flies back to your hand.
Liam: Another one of those secrets she was telling me about.
Matt: Yeah, it's Thor-hammerish. Does require attunement by a dwarf.
Travis: What if I've got a dwarvish beard?
Matt: If you have the Belt of Dwarvenkind attuned, you can attune to the hammer as well. But only under that condition. If you unattune the belt, you have to unattune the hammer.
Liam: And you have to give Matt $20.
Travis: I'm so happy right now.
Matt: Yes, that as well. I forgot that on the card.
Laura: Kerrek, are you secretly a dwarf?
Patrick rothfuss: I... no, though the similarity is notable. (laughter)
Liam: I noticed you haven't actually given me the boots back, and I just wanted to remind you--
Laura: Oh my god, let me find the fucking piece of paper. Jeez.
Liam: It's very important. I'm also going-- oh, you go.
Marisha: Also, these boots may be good for our wonderful cleric. These are Boots of Elvenkind. While you wear these boots, your steps make no sound, regardless of the surface you are moving across. You also have advantage on dexterity stealth checks that rely on moving silently.
Laura: Oh my gosh, but I don't know what else Pike has attuned on her.
Matt: Well, that one I don't think requires attunement.
Laura: (gasps) Pass 'em over, Pike will wear them! They don't need attune? Wow, I'll write them down on her sheet.
Matt: But she will not have her Boots of Levitation. Or no, she will not have her Sprinter's Boots. Sprinter's Boots will be replaced by those.
Liam: Well, you know, what are the chances that she's gonna need to bolt? Probably more than sneak around. Probably?
Matt: It's a choice to make.
Laura: Okay, here's a question  can she have the boots on and then right before the battle put on the Sprinter's Boots?
Matt: Sprinter's Boots do require attunement.
Laura: And it's not like you can attune them and then take them off?
Matt: I'll have to double-check the card from her. I don't know if they do.
Marisha: Sprinter's Boots are pretty clutch for Pike.
Laura: Yeah, they're pretty clutch, especially after the last time.
Liam: We're going to brawl.
Laura: But we're going stealthy, probably, before--
Matt: It's up to you. The process of a giant, armored gnome to change out her boots is gonna be-- it's not like a quick, it's not pressing the 'x' button in your inventory.
Liam: It's like changing from one pair of ski boots into another pair of ski boots.
Matt: Essentially, yeah. (laughter)
Matt: So be mindful of that.
Liam: All right. Minor thing, I'm going to attune the Deathwalker's Ward to necrotic.
Matt: To necrotic. Okay.
Marisha: Well, then, how's your stealth, Percy?
Taliesin: I have spider-boots.
Marisha: Oh, you have spider-boots. What about you, Grog?
Travis: Huh? What was the question? Sorry, I'm drooling all over this--
Laura: Do you mind-- can I put 'em on for now? Since I gave him back his boots. Is that okay?
Marisha: Yeah, my stealth is pretty all right.
Taliesin: He's got leaping boots.
Liam: Is that a Thor hammer, is that thing?
Travis: It's pretty fucking close. Apparently I throw it, it comes right back to my hand. If I had Frenzied Rage and three attacks, would it go (whack whack whack) like a giant yo-yo?
Matt: Technically yes?
Travis: (hyperventilates) I'm taking this one.
Taliesin: I get it.
Liam: How far can you throw that thing?
Travis: 60 feet.
Matt: Well, it's 20 feet and then 60 feet is the second range increment, so if it's longer than 20 feet, your attacks are at disadvantage.
Travis: Son of a bitch.
Matt: But you can still attack.
Travis: What if I did Reckless Attack?
Matt: Then it would be no more roll, and then everyone gets advantage against you.
Travis: I love you right now. If these two tables weren't in our way...
Matt: Love the dice that rolled that treasure hoard.
Liam: Ugh, what's all over the bottom of the table after the show?
Travis: Mayonnaise.
Matt: Is there anybody else that wanted to--
Travis: I would like to attune to this.
Matt: To the Dwarven Thrower?
Travis: Yes. Not the Blood Axe.
Matt: Okay, so the Blood Axe goes away. Dwarven Thrower's out.
Taliesin: Cabal's, Dragonslayer, Animus.
Matt: So, just so you're aware, the dice roll on that is a d8 to do damage, as opposed to a d12.
Laura: Oh. That doesn't sound as cool.
Travis: I must think.
Marisha: I'm gonna do my circlet, my antlers, as always, Ring of Protection, Spire of Conflux.
Matt: Okay.
Patrick rothfuss: Just to chime in, out of character, I know we picked up the dancing sword, which could act as an autonomous fighting thing, but I don't know who has that or who has slots available to attune.
Matt: That is-- Grog has that, actually.
Laura: Grog has every weapon ever.
Marisha: Is it an attunement thing?
Matt: You have to attune to it, yeah.
Liam: You're a Fallout character.
Matt: But yes, Grog does have the sword.
Marisha: Do you have an extra spot, Kerr? To attune?
Patrick rothfuss: I'm gonna show my age, here. You know, I have only occasionally done 5th edition, back in the day when I got used to playing, we never attuned our weapons.
Matt: Yeah, you only have two things attuned. You do, you can.
Patrick rothfuss: So I'm relatively easy in terms of what magic items. I could have it and set it loose at the beginning of combat, if nobody else can.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So Grog pulls the sword out from the Bag of Holding, and as he reaches and extends it towards you, you feel this sudden almost like a sudden burst of headache at the back of your mind, and you stop for a second, Grog, and you look at the blade. And there across the metallic sheen of this gorgeous scimitar, you see this image begin to seep through and look at you. It's this female-like face, very faint, a reflection--
Travis: Female setting!
Matt: But the teeth are fanged, and you see what looks to be almost like a swirl of snakes around the outside. At that moment, you feel that burst of headache in the back of your head grow extremely strong, and you drop the blade out of your hand, and you guys watch as Grog falls to his knees, just clutching the sides of his head. The sword, as it hits the ground, it clacks. The blade almost immediately rusts and turns into a dark, dull metal. The gems crack and turn to dust, and what now lies there is an inert weapon.
Laura: What the fuck?
Liam: What did you do?
Marisha: Grog?
Travis: Ow. (laughter)
Laura: Oh no, did it turn you really, really, really stupid?
Travis: That really hurt, and it's still hurting.
Marisha: Grog, how many fingers am I holding up?
Travis: Square.
Taliesin: Well, he's fine.
Liam: That magic sword bit me. That really hurt.
Travis: What happened?
Laura: Is it just because it's only meant for you?
Liam: Kerrek, do you still want it? (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: Do I have any idea, like, was this thing rejecting me or pissed that Grog was abandoning it?
Matt: You get the sense, just 'cause you've seen a few things like this, that this was actually an inherent curse within the blade, and it just took a moment to dig itself into Grog.
Travis: Oh no.
Matt: But the source of the curse is expended, and Grog, you are permanently at -2 to all of your saving throws. Correcting my mistake from the card last session.
Laura: Oh, shit!
Marisha: This is the Deck of Many Things?
Matt: This was me completely either misreading or mishearing it last time, as the internet let me know that was the card drawn, I want to make sure that we stick to what was drawn.
Travis: I don't have a problem with that, I do have a problem with the headache. Can we maybe bargain to get the headache removed? 'Cause I'm really--
Taliesin: I have Tylenol, but it requires attunement. (laughter)
Travis: I need BC Powder.
Matt: I think Grog has a way to get rid of headaches.
Liam: Can I also say, no one's gonna ever try to get away with anything here, because we know we're being watched-- people are watching like hawks. Everything's going to be seen.
Marisha: So -2 to all of his saving throws?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Permanently?
Matt: Well, until a god takes it away.
Laura: A god? No, go talk to the Raven Queen or somebody. Sarenrae! (gasps) Maybe she can Greater Restoration, if Pike realizes what it is.
Travis: Stupid sword. Jeez, me and swords. Just really not doing well.
Liam: Pike, can you take a look at your buddy?
Laura: Well, I don't know if I know that anything's wrong with him. Grog, do you have a headache?
Matt: Grog is clutching the side of his head. Pike just came up to you and asked you a question.
Travis: What'd she say?
Laura: Do you have a headache?
Travis: I do. Do you have anything to help with it?
Laura: Well, I can maybe do like a Cure Wounds, or--
Travis: I'm not wounded, it's just a headache. Do you have Cure Headache?
Laura: I don't think so, but I can pray to Sarenrae if it would help?
Travis: I don't know, it's out of my league. I mean, maybe, yeah.
Laura: Can I-- is there anything I have?
Matt: What do you want to try?
Marisha: Pike is just universally cute. She's like a kigurumi, if you wear it, you're just automatically cute.
Laura: Just insta-cute.
Matt: It's true.
Laura: Would I know what to do? Would she know what to do to try to help him at all?
Matt: If it's a curse, I mean, there are a few things that can usually take care of a regular curse, but she doesn't understand the nature of this curse.
Laura: Okay. I can try to do a-- I don't know what level Greater Restoration is.
Matt: It's a 5th-level.
Travis: It's only a headache. I'll be fine.
Laura: Are you sure, Grog?
Travis: Yeah, we all just healed, I'm fine.
Laura: Okay. Let me know if you need anything, though.
Travis: All right, yeah, I will. Thank you, Pike.
Patrick rothfuss: Coming into this fight down two on all saves...
Travis: We're gonna kick some ass. Oh, down two. That's...
Taliesin: Do we have anything sitting around that's not attuned, though--
Liam: Pike got that cloak that fucking Hotis glued to my flesh off. That's I think what she did.
Marisha: Grog, if you want, also, you can have my Ring of Protection, which is a Ring of Protection +2, and it gives you +2 to AC and to all your saving throws. I was gonna wear it, but I could wear the Cloak of Displacement instead.
Travis: I'm not a real big jewelry fan. Do I have to attune to it?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Nah, I don't want it.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Thank you, though, Keyleth, that's very sweet.
Marisha: You're welcome. It's a little bit of a girly ring, so I understand. Well, you're full on attunements, right? You're full up?
Laura: Pike's gonna try to do Greater Restoration on Grog.
Matt: Okay. So as you guys are finishing this conversation, Grog and Keyleth, Pike walks up and holds her gauntlet out, her giant, awesome, monster-ogre gauntlet. As it begins to suddenly emit this bright white vibrant glow, she touches the front of your forehead, beckoning you to bend down to try and get rid of the headache. You watch as the healing energy surges through your body from head to toe, and as it passes through you, the light fades, the spell is spent-- that's a 5th-level spell she used-- and the headache remains. (groaning)
Travis: Did it do anything for my gas?
Matt: There is no divine magic that can do anything about that either, Grog.
Travis: Son of a bitch.
Laura: It was worth a try, though, because that would've been helpful.
Taliesin: I cannot find my card for my Ring of Lightning Resistance. It seems to have vanished.
Travis: I don't know where it would have gone.
Taliesin: Do we have anything else equipped that we can--
Laura: I didn't say it the last time, but Trinket's out of the necklace, and he healed overnight, 'cause he's low too.
Patrick rothfuss: Actually, you know, Kerrek is kind of standing around, buffing a little bit of the rust out of his off-the-rack chainmail. He's trying not to look like that kid who showed up at the rich kids' party. (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: Out of character, I will say, if anyone has anything that they're not using in terms of--
Travis: Yeah, no, we do!
Patrick rothfuss: I'm reasonably geared up, I'll be able to go in and hit.
Taliesin: Are you wearing armor?
Matt: He has chainmail.
Taliesin: Okay, so the Bracers of Defense wouldn't work.
Marisha: Yeah, would the cloak work with armor, right? It wouldn't replace his armor, a cloak?
Matt: No, the cloak can go over armor.
Marisha: Are you okay with that, Vax? Kerr, we have this Cloak of Displacement that's pretty awesome, if you want to wear it.
Liam: Yeah, it's made from the flesh of a flying manta ray-type thing, and it makes you really hard to hit, and this is a loaner--
Matt: It's actually made from the flesh of a displacer beast.
Liam: I know that, I know. I also have a very precious ring which I would love to have back from you once we've killed this dragon, but you will not be seen if you wear it.
Patrick rothfuss: I would put that to good use in the coming fight.
Marisha: Okay. I take the cloak and I throw it over him. You gonna tweet it to him? Or text it to him? Whatever.
Liam: And I slap the ring down into his palm.
Marisha: Do you have a picture of the ring?
Liam: A picture of the ring?
Laura: It's a Ring of Invisibility?
Marisha: Do you have a thing? No?
Liam: Yes, I have a thing.
Laura: Just a legendary ring.
Matt: Just a legendary ring like you do. Just note, with the Ring of Invisibility, you remain invisible until the ring is removed, until you attack or cast a spell, or until you use a bonus action to become visible again.
Liam: If anyone has anything better to give him, we could do that.
Laura: No, that's really good. That's a badass ring.
Liam: Hey, Siri, remind me to ask Patrick Rothfuss for my Ring of Invisibility back once the dragon is dead. We're good.
Matt: All right, there you go. Thank you, Siri. (laughter)
Travis: Assisting D&D games since 2000-something.
Matt: All right. So. What else do you guys want to prepare, if anything, as you wake up, come to consciousness--
Laura: We should have a Heroes' Feast.
Marisha: Yes, we should.
Laura: Is there anybody that could do a Heroes' Feast?
Marisha: Pike, how are you looking on Feasts?
Matt: I mean, if Pike wants to prepare a Heroes' Feast, Pike can cast it.
Marisha: Can Gilmore?
Liam: That was a one-time thing.
Matt: Gilmore had a few items that basically turned into a Heroes' Feast, but he lost his shop.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay. Pike can do another-- what level is that?
Matt: Heroes' Feast. It is, I believe, 6th-level, I think. Yes, 6th-level.
Travis: Why're we having a Feast? Are we going to fight something?
Taliesin: It's breakfast. It's the most important meal of the day.
Travis: That's right. I feel terrible for not realizing that.
Laura: Okay, so we all have Heroes' Feast.
Matt: All right, so. Mark your diamond that you recently found in the hoard, marked off, as Pike prepares a long wooden table, summoned through divine magic, that contains a fantastic meal of all the classic Westruun comfort foods, instilled with the power and guidance of Sarenrae. As you spend the additional hour to eat and drink and gain the effect of the spell, you become immune to poison, immune to fear, and you all get an additional 2d10 to your maximum hit points, if you want to roll that, Laura.
Laura: For Pike?
Matt: Yes. Well, this is for everybody. Everybody gets this amount.
Laura: Oh, that's not bad, that's not bad. That's a 15 added for everybody.
Matt: So everybody gets 15 additional hit points.
Marisha: And I'm assuming Trinket is eating and Allura is eating?
Matt: It can feed up to 12 people, so yes. That would be Kerr as well, and Allura, and Kima.
Taliesin: We get advantage on what saves?
Laura: Fear and poison.
Matt: Well, you're immune to fear and immune to poison.
Taliesin: We don't get advantage?
Laura: Advantage on wisdom.
Matt: Wisdom saving throws. All righty.
Laura: And I attuned-- by the way, my Bracers of Archery are attuned again.
Matt: You reattuned to your Bracers of Archery? Cool. All righty. So.
Marisha: Should I do a Scrying Eye, see if I can still find Raishan?
Laura: Yeah, but what should you scry on? Can you scry on Thordak's body or something? 'Cause she would have it right next to her.
Marisha: Can I?
Taliesin: We have the ball.
Matt: It's either a creature or location.
Patrick rothfuss: Well, if right now we're pretty sure that they don't know we know where they are, do we want to risk that? Losing the surprise?
Marisha: We don't. If I scry on her cave, would that tip her off? The cave of Opash?
Matt: Only one way to find out.
Marisha: Only one way to find out?
Taliesin: I'm of the opinion that-- personally, I think it's safer to know what we know now and go in, because if things--
Marisha: I mean, I can always teleport us there and scry there. That way, at least-- minutes.
Matt: As far as you know, when you create a sensor at a location, creatures that can see invisibility can see the actual scrying location, the orb itself that you create, the magical orb of which your vision appears through. But that's the only thing you would have to consider.
Marisha: That's a massive thing to consider.
Travis: Unless she's in, like, perma-bubble-bath world or something.
Liam: We should just go.
Marisha: I think we should, too.
Laura: Oh, jeez! I'm so nervous.
Marisha: I know.
Travis: I'm not.
Taliesin: I'm feeling strangely positive.
Travis: -2, playas.
Liam: Would you put that piece of wood down, please?
Laura: He's eating wood again.
Marisha: We need to get him another salt lick.
Travis: I do miss my salt lick rock. Can I keep an eye out as we walk around for another salt lick rock?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Don't make me do that. Ooh!
Taliesin: God, the sound those things make.
Travis: 13.
Taliesin: It's like your dice have a subwoofer.
Matt: You find a few separate pieces of what look like quartz-like rock that line the sides of the road and the exterior garden of the castle, and upon trying each one, not as salty as you'd hoped. They're generally just bits of whitestone or rock.
Marisha: Grog, that's caca!
Travis: Find your own!
Taliesin: Let him lick it if he wants it. It's just gonna make him happy.
Travis: Is it close to salty? Could I confuse it with salt?
Matt: I mean, you get a hint of salt, but it's gone after the first lick.
Travis: More shiny than the others?
Matt: After licking it a few times, it gets a little shinier, yeah.
Travis: I am a great sorcerer. I will keep this new stone.
Matt: Okay. So go ahead and mark three quartz rocks.
Travis: Palm-sized?
Matt: Roughly. Some are a little bigger. The center one is a little bit like a basketball size.
Travis: Bag of Holding, you've got new occupants.
Marisha: Putting rocks in the Bag of Holding. Just filling it with rocks.
Laura: Rocks and like dried poo.
Matt: Don't judge his collection.
Marisha: Ox, oxen, troll dicks, pet rocks, just a bunch of pet rocks.
Matt: All right. As you guys are preparing, Kima and Allura catch up to you guys. They've gathered their materials and they're prepped for battle. Kima's fully armored.
Marisha: Does she look badass? In her full sorceress armor?
Matt: Oh, Allura?
Marisha: Paint a picture. What's she look like? (laughter)
Marisha: She's an upper-middle-class girl.
Matt: She's wearing one of her many ceremonial robes that she does for presentory Tal'Dorei Council work, but you see she has a hood up over her head, her hair braids are tied together behind her neck so they don't get in the way. You notice that there is some really nice jewelry that's adorning the side of her neck. The staff she carries with her usually is relatively simple, but you see now that there are a number of runes carved in a spiral along the sides of it. You can see a number of rings that she previously wasn't wearing that are on, and her face is hardened, and you see that she-- where normally she has this air of keeping the room-- almost a teacher or parental-type presence in the area, there's an intensity and darkness to her face that you haven't really seen before. Not since at least the attack on the city happened.
Liam: Work!
Laura: (sings) Allura!
Matt: (sings) And Kima.
Travis: Oh my god!
Matt: All right, guys. So. They've arrived, and Allura steps into the room, her staff clicking across the stone floor of the castle. "All right. Have we put all of our affairs in order?"
Travis: Yes.
Taliesin: Well, I hate when you put it that way.
Laura: Kima got the Feast, too, right?
Matt: They come in towards the beginning of the casting of the Feast, and they eat as well, yes.
Taliesin: It's a buffet. It's a Heroes' Buffet.
Matt: "So. How best should we arrive? If you have the ability to bring us through the tree, or I can teleport us there."
Laura: Is it the same difference?
Marisha: What power-- how much energy do you use when you teleport?
Matt: "As far as the advancement of spell strength, a Teleport spell in its own right is the seventh sphere of magical incantation."
Marisha: Mm. Then let me go with our Transport Via Plants, which is more of a six, you know, level.
Matt: "Sounds like a wondrous idea."
Taliesin: Worst-case scenario, we can camp for the night, if are victorious and spent.
Travis: I love camping.
Marisha: Yeah, it looks like a very pretty island.
Taliesin: Let's make sure that one of the Gate Stones is left here in case one of us has to make a mad dash.
Marisha: Give it to Cassandra?
Taliesin: Give it, obviously, keep it in Cassandra's care. If somebody comes back, you know everything's gone horribly wrong.
Matt: Kima rushes over and takes the stone from your hand and goes, "All right, I'll give it to her. Be right back." She jogs off. You hear the (clanging) of the armor as she disappears
Taliesin: Maybe we should give--
Taliesin: -- her the boots.
Marisha: -- her the boots.
Marisha: That's not a bad call.
Laura: That's true.
Matt: So.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, you know what? When Kima comes back, I'm gonna give her the Elven boots, so she can be quiet.
Matt: She takes them and is like, "Not really my style."
Laura: If you don't want them, I'll wear them, I mean, I like them a lot. I'm just saying, you're loud.
Matt: "I'll take 'em." And you all wait patiently for the next six minutes as she unbuckles and pulls off the rest of her lower armor and gets the boots on.
Travis: That don't match at all.
Matt: No. And you can see it gives her a twinge of disappointment.
Marisha: It's like different tiered armors in Warcraft. It's the worst.
Liam: Slips her Doc Martens over here.
Matt: The expansion just came out, so it's like all epics and one green that's better than the rest. Yeah. That's the worst. (laughs) All right. With you all gathered there, Allura, hood still up, kind of nods. "Keyleth, lead the way. To the Sun Tree, then?"
Marisha: To the Sun Tree.
Matt: "Very well. (sighs) Let us hope that we return here tomorrow victorious." She swirls around, her cloak spinning around her base as she follows suit after you, Keyleth, the rest of you make your way, marching down the front of Castle Whitestone to the center of the town, where there you see the faint elements of green bloom now growing across the tree from where once it was bare, the season bringing a sense of spring and summer that have been kept at bay for a while. And for you as well, Percival, this is the first time in a long time you've seen the Sun Tree showing that growing life.
Taliesin: I quietly sneak up and give it a good kiss.
Marisha: Aw. I see it, and I'm like. You know, I know him. I can put in a good word.
Taliesin: Really? We talk all the time, he never mentions you.
Marisha: What? What? I'm gonna let that go. (laughter)
Marisha: That could be a discussion. I don't wanna do that right now. We'll talk later. Are we ready?
Matt: All right, so what are you focusing on for the receiving end of this?
Marisha: I'm assuming I found a tree that was close to her cavern that's big enough?
Matt: With the second scrying that you did with Allura, which was just specifically the Island of Viscan, you did see a number of trees not far from the rocky protrusion, the small mountain that seemed to be the place where this laboratory's in. So yes, you can choose one of those trees you saw that would be large enough to do it.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: Scanlan stops us before we start. For the record, this is a terrible idea and we have no plan. Just putting it out there. I'm with you, this is a terrible plan, and we're going to die.
Laura: You seem different.
Taliesin: I'm fine. I have a cold. I don't feel well. I'm taking something for it.
Travis: Sing me a song. Sing me a song right now.
Taliesin: I'm not singing.
Marisha: I try to stealthily sniff Scanlan. Does he smell like--
Matt: (laughing) Well, first roll a stealth check. (laughter)
Travis: Don't ever say the word.
Marisha: Okay. 14.
Matt: 14. The not-stealthy-at-all Keyleth slowly approaches you. You see her. You make eye contact. And yet she still slowly crawls up and begins taking a big whiff on your shoulder.
Marisha: (sniffs) Ah, so nervous.
Taliesin: There once was a barbarian named Grog, who had the IQ of a log-- I'd keep going, but now you're excited, and you've made me lose my--
Travis: That was amazing.
Marisha: Does he smell like the incense that I smelled from him before?
Matt: No. He smells of frustration, disappointment, and worry.
Marisha: You smell like a sad man. All right, let's go.
Matt: (laughs) All right. So do you go ahead and cast the spell? All right.
Marisha: I say to the Sun Tree, I say, I like your new haircut. I have a new one too. Okay, let's go.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us before we go through the tree.
Matt: Okay. So as the shadows coalesce around your bodies, your legs, your knees, your feet, you watch as the front of the Sun Tree suddenly splits open to reveal the pathway through across to what looks to be a partially ruined jungle. You all step through the tree quickly before the portal slams shut behind you, and as you guys emerge, looking about, you can see what looks to be a lot of heavy dirt and earth that-- there's spatterings of sand throughout, and surrounding it immediately, you can see there are different trees throughout this kind of-- some points are lush green jungle on the outside, and the further in you go, you watch as the trees have all withered black. A little ways over the treeline, you can see maybe a quarter-mile off what looks to be the top of the mountain that a brief instant of your first vision in your Scry spell lent you towards.
Marisha: Does it look like the blight of the trees is getting more concentrated the closer to the top of the mountain?
Matt: It looks like it's a radial effect from the actual mountain, yes.
Travis: Does it look like fire damage or something else?
Matt: You want to go ahead and take a look? Make an investigation check.
Travis: Yeah! Stand back. 11 minus two.
Matt: (laughs) You can't recall the color, really, that they've become, but it's not alive.
Travis: Someone peed on these trees. All of 'em. In a big circle. Like that.
Marisha: Grog, is this what happens when you pee on trees?
Travis: Is that not normal?
Marisha: We should talk with Pike when we get home. Make sure you're okay.
Laura: Oh, do you need me to cast another Greater Restoration? For your--
Marisha: No, his bladder infection's fine.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: It can keep.
Matt: It takes a Wish spell to get rid of that, unfortunately.
Liam: He's been in every brothel in Tal'Dorei, it's to be expected. (laughter)
Travis: Not ashamed.
Laura: He and Scanlan both.
Marisha: Did he find anything out? Did you find anything out?
Matt: No, he didn't find anything.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check?
Matt: Sure, go for it.
Travis: These trees aren't alive.
Marisha: Fancy that. That's good. 21.
Matt: Okay. As you guys begin to walk through-- it's not a very dense jungle.
Laura: We want to keep quiet as we do it.
Matt: Okay, so make stealth checks as well.
Marisha: We have Pass Without a Trace?
Matt: Yes you do, so plus ten to all your stealth.
Marisha: Natural 20!
Marisha: Pew-pew-pew!
Laura: Pew-pew-pew!
Marisha: If only it mattered right now. Pew-pew-pew.
Matt: All righty. And a natural 20 for Allura. And, actually-- I rolled with disadvantage for Kima, and it was like a 16 and a four, but then she had the boots on, so the first one sticks.
Laura: 24 for Pike!
Matt: Nice. So, stealthily, you guys-- what did you roll?
Taliesin: I rolled 33 and Scanlan rolled 31.
Matt: Grog?
Travis: 13.
Taliesin: Plus ten.
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: With the plus ten?
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: How did you do that?
Matt: Okay, well, Kerr, what did you get?
Patrick rothfuss: 14 for me.
Laura: Plus ten?
Patrick rothfuss: Where did that plus ten come from?
Laura: From Pass Without a Trace!
Matt: A spell that she had cast on all of you.
Patrick rothfuss: Then I am at 24. (cheering)
Laura: 38.
Marisha: 37!
Matt: As you guys fan out in this-- (computer chime)
Taliesin: Now boarding  Star Tours.
Marisha: Thanks for that, Microsoft Outlook.
Matt: As you begin to weave your way through these trees as quietly as you possibly can, Keyleth, you step behind and run your fingers along some of these withered grey and black fronds and branches. All these trees look like they had the life force pulled from them, almost like a very, very rapid starvation, or thirst took them, but what's interesting is a lot of these trees are near-petrified and have been this way for a very long time.
Marisha: That was gonna be my question.
Matt: It's not a recent occurrence.
Marisha: So like the petrified forest in Arizona?
Matt: Kind of, yeah. But a sadder version, if that's possible. They're all like "ehh, I'm a bad tree."
Taliesin: What do I know about Opash and the crimes and what sort of tinkering?
Matt: You don't know that much. The fact that you knew the name and a little bit of the history was even impressive by the standards of everyone here. What little you do know is that he was sent away specifically because of his inquiries into how far you can reach with necromantic magics, and lost history from the Age of Arcanum.
Taliesin: Okay, that's good to know.
Matt: The Age of Arcanum was the epoch before the Divergence, before the Calamity hit, and not a lot of history exists about it, a lot of it was destroyed either during the battle, or people destroyed it thereafter to prevent us from reusing what led to that sort of conflict. But Opash apparently had gathered, or at least was in the process of trying to recover, some of that information.
Marisha: So these trees have been dead for hundreds of years.
Matt: Hundreds of years, yes.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: So the scarring does not seem recent.
Marisha: And there's no new scarring.
Matt: There does not appear to be any new scarring that you can tell based on what you've seen so far.
Marisha: That's very good.
Laura: Do I see any sign of tracks or anything? Dragon tracks?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Laura: Dragging of giant carcasses or just, y'know, footprints.
Taliesin: Yellow 'Dragon Crossing' signs.
Laura: Advantage, 'cause it's a dragon.
Matt: If it's dragon-related.
Laura: It is dragon-related. Natural 20.
Matt: All righty. There are no dragon tracks.
Laura: Motherfucker.
Taliesin: She licks a tree. "No dragon has been here." (laughter)
Laura: I bet there's other tracks, though, that I totally missed 'cause I was looking for dragons.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Can I look for anything other than dragons? There won't be an advantage.
Matt: Go for it, sure.
Laura: I really want that 20, but I don't get it. This one is not as good. Is this an investigation? Perception?
Matt: Yeah, this would be investigation for you, sitting down and getting close and looking throughout the dirt.
Laura: (whispers) 11.
Matt: 11? You do find tracks, but they're scattered and they're small feet. Looks like some indigenous creatures or wildlife that exists on this landscape.
Laura: Okay. But they were little.
Matt: They were all little, yeah. As you guys push through, Allura looks up toward the boughs of the dead trees. "While you were preparing, I did some research on this island, and it seems that there were an indigenous people that lived here before Opash came. Thousands that made seaward trade routes to the north and the west, and when he made this his home, the indigenous people were never heard from again. It is believed by many who fare the seas that this land is cursed and is to be avoided for that reason. This forest, one of the superstitious points of that reasoning, there are a few that come through hoping to scavenge or find things from his lost whereabouts, or his own hoard or treasures he may have garnished in his time, but few of those return as well."
Taliesin: Well, if Raishan came back, then who knows what horrors actually do exist on this island? It's possible that she found some of his notes and built upon them. There could be anything.
Marisha: Did you read if the island was trapped or any type of arcane presence on it?
Matt: "Well, if this was the lair of a necromancer, an entity that is both selfish and driven towards the personal power and advancement of their own narcissism, I can imagine that they are very well protected with their secrets. The fact that this abode was taken by Thordak before he made reign upon the southern side of the continent... who knows what happened to Opash?"
Marisha: Thordak made this his abode?
Matt: "Yes. Up until he began to wander onto the continent of Tal'Dorei."
Taliesin: Interesting.
Laura: Mm-hm.
Taliesin: I'm just playing some conjecture in my head. You have a powerful necromancer, if there's any possibility that he could've found a semblance of unlife, of Opash wandering around, and bent him towards his will, then we don't know how that gem got into his chest in the first place. We don't know how any of this happened, and there's just too much we don't know yet. We have to find the cave.
Matt: "The gem we created. Me, Kima, Drake. As far as we know, if any of her stories can be believed, Raishan was responsible for the rituals that embedded it within Thordak's chest on the Plane of Fire during her time with the Fire Ashari. Once again, as much as we can believe."
Taliesin: There's just a lot we don't know.
Matt: "Let us be careful. Press on."
Laura: Tread carefully. Just keep an eye out. We're keeping eyes out for anything that looks different than normal jungle-ness.
Liam: You and I head out 20 feet ahead of everybody and check for traps as we go. Carefully.
Matt: Investigation checks from both you guys, if you don't mind.
Liam: Investigation or--
Matt: If you're looking for traps specifically? Investigation.
Laura: 26.
Liam: 18.
Matt: Okay. Pushing forward, you guys--
Laura: I wasn't just looking for traps, I'm looking for anything that looks out of place in the forest, 'cause I don't know what kind of traps necessarily would be set by something like this. You know what I mean?
Matt: Sure. In a very Laura Bailey "how much can I get out of this roll?" I know, I know, I know, I'm just messing with you. So as you guys push forward, you, Vax, notice that the further in you go towards this mountain, the trees, still dead, grey, are even further withered, and many of them have just turned to ash and dust. And the closer you get, the actual treeline grows thinner and lower as it seems like the closer it gets to the mountain, they're bereft of most of their structure. You do, Vex, catch as your brother is moving forward, he is stepping towards a section of the earth and sand that has slightly different texture, ever-so-slightly from the rest, and he's but a few feet from stepping into that space.
Laura: Vax! Stop! There's some weirdness on the ground. I feel like it's something.
Liam: So you think something's up under the ground there?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I mean, what do I do at this point?
Matt: What do you want to do? You look down, and you--
Laura: Don't you see it?
Matt: It looks almost like--
Liam: I'm gonna take a closer look, is what I'm gonna do.
Matt: It looks like the difference between sand and slightly damp sand. The coloration is just ever so faintly--
Laura: Now that you're looking, now that you're looking, you can tell, right?
Liam: Now that I have context. Context is key, as always.
Travis: Can I push him in? No, I'm kidding.
Laura: Is it quicksand?
Liam: Do I find a trap if I'm looking closer, now, with her added?
Matt: I mean, it looks different from the rest. There's no mechanism there, you don't see a pulley or a--
Laura: Maybe it's magic.
Liam: How much of it looks different?
Matt: It's avoidable. It's like a ten-, 15-foot oval area.
Laura: Hey, everyone. Let's just not step on this dark patch, how about that?
Travis: Why?
Laura: 'Cause I think it's like magic or something, Grog.
Travis: Like good magic?
Laura: Like bad magic.
Travis: What kind of bad magic?
Laura: The kind that would kill us all.
Marisha: Like the kind that gives you a really bad headache.
Travis: I really don't want another one of those.
Laura: Similar sort of thing.
Liam: Continue.
Matt: Now that you've identified that, you've come across a few more patches, and they seem to grow more dense as the trees grow more withered and gone, until you get to a point where you can now see the base of this mountain.
Marisha: Can I from a distance maybe do a nature check? Are these almost like siphons, like wells where he was sucking the life force?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Taliesin: Or maybe quicksand? This could be all the quicksand we were promised as children.
Laura: I know, right?
Marisha: Oh my gosh. Always quicksand.
Travis: Seriously. Today's kids do not appreciate quicksand.
Taliesin: It was such a big part of my childhood.
Marisha: Why did I never find quicksand? 22.
Matt: 22. These are less siphons, they're more what looks to be-- it's a phenomenon known as hollow earth, which is when subterranean caverns go into collapse.
Liam: Sinkholes.
Matt: It can create a sinkhole-like phenomenon, but hollow earth generally is based on some sort of magical release, an explosion of magical energy beneath the earth that causes-- even though there is no space, it erodes the earth from its magic presence, whether it just completely disintegrates or destroys portions of the earth, it leaves this very, very unstable portion of ground.
Marisha: So it's like a magical quasar? That blasts out?
Matt: You're not entirely certain what it'll do, but it's not good.
Travis: I take one of my new salt lick rocks and I throw it in one of the little sandy pools.
Matt: Okay. As you take the rock and throw it into the sandy pool, it lands with a little bit of dirt being kicked up around it and sits there for a rest.
Travis: Ooh, magic, huh? Real scary.
Laura: And then?
Taliesin: Would the rock tell you if it was having a headache right now? How would it tell you that?
Travis: I have a psychic connection with my rocks.
Liam: You also weigh a little more--
Matt: The rock then goes-- it just falls underneath, and you can see a spot in the ground, perfectly shaped where the rock was, that is now just--
Laura: Told you it was dangerous.
Travis: I actually did that. It's magic.
Laura: Good job, Grog.
Travis: Don't step there.
Marisha: You figured it out, Grog, good job.
Taliesin: Weird point of contention for my imagination. Are the trees wilting, or do they seem like there was a bit of a blast?
Matt: They are not leaning a specific direction.
Taliesin: Okay, so there's no pattern to it.
Matt: Yeah, and it isn't like there are were leaves or anything blown off of them. It just looked like they gradually just died rapidly in place.
Liam: Seems like the closer we get, the deader it gets.
Laura: Can we see the mountain that we're getting towards?
Matt: Yes, you can, and you guys maneuver around these spaces to get to the base of it, and it's a moderate-sized mountain, nothing impressive on the outside, it's maybe 600 feet tall at its apex, it's more of a large, rocky mound. Make a perception check.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: There's nothing in here. Why do I keep trying to sip?
Laura: 30 is what I rolled, but that's not as good as a natural 20.
Liam: No, it's not.
Laura: But 30 is still good.
Matt: But what's your bonus to perception?
Liam: Perception, oh yeah, is 12. So 32.
Matt: Okay, so close. You guys being at the front of the party anyway--
Laura: Whoa, your perception bonus is higher than mine? When did that happen?
Taliesin: How did you just notice that?
Liam: Who fucking knows?
Matt: As you guys scoot forward, being ahead of the rest of the party, you glance across the surface of this, and most of the rock follows the familiar pattern of tectonic shift that's broken and cracked in places, but it's been, over hundreds and thousands of years, just settled into its natural state. There is one section of rock just maybe 200 feet from where you are landing at the base where it looks like the texture, the natural lines of the rock, is in a different direction. And upon you heading in that direction, you can see, now, what it appears to be is a large rock, very large, maybe 20, 30 feet wide, that is jammed into an entranceway.
Liam: I perceive a rock.
Marisha: I got a rock.
Matt: Kind of. There are a number of strange holes peppered over the surface.
Laura: Like, big holes?
Matt: About the size of a-- larger than a gold piece, each hole.
Laura: Does it look like it could be, like, things could come out of it?
Matt: Possibly?
Liam: Checking for traps.
Matt: You have to check it.
Travis: You know what Gilmore would do. Put his hand in it.
Taliesin: How very Flash Gordon.
Liam: 25 for investigation.
Matt: Investigation, okay.
Laura: Do I need to roll, since he's so good?
Liam: Might as well.
Laura: What if it's a one? Ooh. No, 24. Damn.
Travis: Got you a water, Matt.
Matt: Thank you, sir. So. Are the rest of you guys following up behind them?
Liam: Just wait a moment, wait a moment. No, hang back for a second.
Matt: Okay. Between the two of you glancing, you notice that each one of these holes is actually a pierced intrusion upon the rock, something very quickly jammed itself into the rock to create this hole. And they're clustered in places. And you, with your experience, these claws are respective to the size of a very, very, very large dragon. And it looks like different-- some of them are more weathered than others. This boulder has been placed and pulled back and placed many, many times throughout the years.
Laura: It's probably too heavy for us to move, but Grog, do you want to try?
Taliesin: I don't know if we should move it.
Laura: Well, how do we get in if we don't open the entrance?
Patrick rothfuss: If nothing else, rather than moving the whole boulder, is there a way we could just get enough of a crack to get in?
Marisha: I can Stone Shape it a little bit thinner.
Laura: Ooh, dig. I like that.
Taliesin: Just so that if the dragon tries to run, they have to move a giant boulder, it would be really convenient.
Laura: Oh, good call.
Marisha: Does it look like there's-- am I there? I'm not there yet.
Matt: You guys are hanging back.
Liam: Kik.
Marisha: All right, I'll go up. Is there a crack that looks like it can kind of just whittle it away, that's kind of already started with the boulder?
Matt: I mean, the boulder is larger than the entranceway that it's jammed into, and you're not entirely certain what the inside of this cavern mouth is, if it's just a direct intersection point or if it's a gradual influx. You can just try and push through at one of those points if you'd like.
Laura: Can you just put a hole in the middle, like right in the center of the boulder, on the ground?
Taliesin: Or would it be easier just to scrape across the side?
Marisha: I only have a limited amount of space that I can carve out, so the boulder might be too thick, but if I do it at the seam line, I should be able to do it. I want to do it at the seam.
Travis: Do we want to take the first entrance that we find, I mean, is it really one way in, one way out? What if it's just, like, a trap?
Marisha: Does someone want to check for traps?
Matt: They already checked. It did not appear to be trapped, just a very, very heavy rock.
Travis: I mean, like, run a perimeter, do any recon, anything else?
Laura: We'd have to run around an entire mountain. Does it look like there could be any other entrances?
Matt: I mean, you'd have to go around the entire mountain.
Laura: How long would it take if I flew around?
Matt: Oh, maybe at full speed, hour and a half, two hours?
Travis: Fuck that, death first, open the door.
Laura: All right, cool cool cool, let's just shape the boulder.
Marisha: Do I want to scry on the inside, or are we just going in? Do I want to scry and see if she's there?
Matt: This accounts for you flying, stopping, checking, flying, stopping, checking. You can't just check for traps while going by at 50 feet around.
Taliesin: Scrying on the inside.
Matt: Are you gonna scry?
Marisha: Are we just going in?
Travis: Yeah, we're doing it.
Taliesin: I think we'll just go in. I mean, what are we gonna see that's gonna make us change our mind?
Laura: Well, if she's not there.
Marisha: Well, if she's not there.
Laura: (gasps) Oh, I'm gonna try to detect dragons! What the fuck?
Marisha: Yeah, that's better!
Laura: I sit down and go, hmm.
Travis: Do you have a headache too? Oh my god, we're all gonna die. I'm patient zero.
Patrick rothfuss: If I'm up by the boulder, too, I will do-- I don't have a huge range, but I will do Divine Sense.
Matt: Okay.
Patrick rothfuss: I can detect all manner of stuff up to 60 feet.
Matt: Yes, you can. All righty. So, using your Divine Sense, let's see here. Okay, so you spend your time just focusing, making sure there's nothing either in or in the immediate vicinity of the rock boulder that could be of celestial, fiend, or undead nature. While you spend a spell slot to do your Primeval Awareness. So yes, you do sense what appear to be three sources of dragon life force within the space. Roughly in the direction of this mountain and below.
Laura: They're here, they're here. Oh, god. (hyperventilates) They're here, she's still here, and I think the eggs are okay, 'cause I can still feel like there's dragons.
Marisha: Oh, they're still alive?
Laura: I think so.
Marisha: God damn it. God. Okay. All right.
Laura: I just did it within a mile, so is that okay? Was that within a mile?
Matt: I believe it's--
Laura: Or did I need to spend longer?
Matt: For that one, it is for one minute per level of the spell. And it's within one mile, up to six miles if you're in your favored terrain.
Laura: Oh, so I am, because it's woods, right? Wooded?
Matt: It's not wooded anymore, so it's one mile. So you know at least they're within a mile.
Marisha: That's big.
Taliesin: That's huge.
Marisha: All right.
Liam: So this is happening.
Marisha: Does anyone need to do anything else before we go in?
Laura: I have to go take a poo.
Marisha: I have to pee, too. I have to pee so bad. (laughter)
Matt: Was that in character?
Marisha: It's both?
Laura: I'm so nervous.
Marisha: Little bit of both.
Laura: All right.
Matt: So what's the plan, guys?
Laura: We're gonna go in? Let's go in!
Marisha: Does anyone need to do a thing?
Laura: I mean, I don't know if we're gonna have to go through. And it only lasts for a minute, so I feel like we're gonna be in the caves longer than--
Marisha: Okay, okay, okay.
Laura: So we're still stealthing.
Travis: Wait, actually, can I pull Vex aside real quick? Can I talk to you just real fast before we--
Laura: Me?
Travis: Yeah, like a little further away, like in private?
Laura: Grog. I'm already seeing someone.
Travis: No, I know. I hate to beat a dead bush. Horse? Cow? I hate to beat a dead cow, but I really did like that little magic thing I found.
Laura: What little magic thing, darling?
Travis: When we were looting and stuff? And I've been really worried about you. I know you like to bargain, right? So I thought I could trade you back for what I found. And I have this little Parapet of Wound Closure, you've been dying so much, right? And if you wear this and you die, you immediately stabilize on your next turn. I figured it'd be a good trade.
Laura: Do I have to attune to that, Grog?
Travis: No.
Laura: You're lying.
Travis: It's a big word. I don't really know what you're saying. I really liked it. I mean, it made a magic sword when I touched it.
Laura: Grog, and then it gave you a headache!
Travis: Yeah, but I can deal with a headache. I won't-- I just, I found it, you know?
Laura: Grog. (yells) Grog!
Travis: What?
Laura: This is awful. No, it's so bad for you.
Travis: Look, you won't die, you won't die.
Laura: (laughing) You motherfucker.
Travis: It's only 'cause I'm looking out for you.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: It's the wedding all over again.
Laura: You see how hard this is when people want their boots back, when people want their decks back...
Liam: Don't compare the boots to the deck, are you kidding me?
Laura: You did find it.
Taliesin: Technically, it's somebody else's.
Liam: What do you care what he says?
Laura: Grog. You have to promise me you won't pull anything from it. All you can do is hold onto it. That's all you can do. You can't look at anything, you have to keep it in its little pouch.
Travis: Okay. Yeah, I don't look at anything, I keep it in its little pouch, I don't pull anything. I promise.
Laura: So, you know in Guardians of the Galaxy, when he gives him that little ball at the end?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Can I do that? Can I give him a pouch? Here's your cards back. But don't look at them, Grog. They're really dangerous. All right?
Travis: You want to trade?
Laura: Yeah, give me the necklace.
Travis: Okay, there. I take the cards.
Matt: Okay. So what are you giving him?
Laura: A little pouch that's the shape of the deck of cards.
Matt: How do you make the pouch the shape of cards?
Laura: It's maybe not that good of a pouch, but it's Grog.
Matt: Make a sleight-of-hand check with disadvantage.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Aw, man.
Liam: Yeah, everybody saw through it immediately, just so you know.
Laura: Well, obviously! But it's Grog. That's really bad. He's gonna be able to tell. Nine?
Matt: Go ahead and roll a perception check, Grog.
Travis: Six.
Taliesin: Yes!
Matt: The trade is complete. She hands you your deck of cards, she takes her Parapet of Wound Closure.
Laura: Oh my god, I'm in so much trouble! (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: I like to think that there's a live kitten in this pouch. (laughter)
Matt: If you pull the right card, yeah.
Liam: Well, you saved the party, but your marriage is in jeopardy.
Laura: I know. He's so mad at me! He's so mad. It's really good that he's sitting over at the other table right now.
Taliesin: I'm gonna get the wrath of this.
Marisha: I know, we have him!
Taliesin: I can feel the heat emanating right now.
Matt: So, feeling satisfied that your imploring of Vex and a trade you've made, your shiny package of happy cards are back in your possession, but you promised, at the moment, at least--
Travis: To not look at them. All right.
Matt: While she's right there in front of you, yeah.
Travis: Thank you, Vex. That really means the world.
Laura: Seriously, though, they're really, really dangerous.
Travis: I know, they're really special. I won't look at them or anything. That means a lot. I don't find a lot of great things. I did find a couple rocks, earlier, if you want them.
Laura: Oh, they're yours.
Travis: Okay. Are you sure? You're not gonna try and steal that shit, too?
Laura: No, I promise.
Travis: Cool. Let's go kill a dragon. And I jauntily and cheerily walk back to the group. (laughter)
Liam: He looks happy. What was that about?
Laura: (nervous laughter) Oh, I just gave him back his cards, is all.
Travis: So happy to be reunited.
Taliesin: I'm so proud of you.
Matt: All right, so. What are the rest of you doing in the meantime?
Marisha: You've got a little bead of sweat on your forehead, Vex. It's such a humid jungle.
Liam: We zoom in on the single drop.
Marisha: I'm waiting to sculpt a hole in the door.
Matt: Okay. So, using Stone Shape, you can-- a section of stone no more than five feet in any dimension, and form in any shape that suits your purpose. So. You can make a small passage, as long as it is no more than five feet thick. The wall and the stone are both thicker than five feet. You can begin to make a slight passageway. You can create enough of a crack with your spell, as it completes, which, mark off your 4th-level spell, but as you create it, you do manage to pierce, and you can look into the darkness of the tunnel behind, but through the full use of the spell, you create this kind of tunnel intrusion into the side of this mountain, and you only get that much of opening.
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Taliesin: No, this is an excellent start.
Marisha: All right. In spelunker-Keyleth mode, I'm looking through the hole with my Darkvision.
Matt: Okay, perception check.
Marisha: What do I see?
Liam: Fanart, please.
Matt: Keyleth in The Descent.
Marisha: Oh, son of a bitch! That's a one.
Laura: What do you see, Keyleth?
Liam: You just got James Franco'd.
Marisha: It's so fucking dark, you guys.
Laura: How about I try-- Oh! What if we light an arrow, can I do an Oracle Arrow through the hole?
Marisha: I shimmy out and say, Vex, go in the hole.
Matt: Okay. All right. So you pull back the arrow, you fire it through. The arrow-- go ahead and make an attack roll.
Laura: I'm getting death looks. Natural 20!
Matt: You fire the Oracle Arrow at just the right angle where it doesn't hit any of the walls, it just arcs off straight, before it eventually begins to curve. And what you do as you pass along with this arrow, with your Darkvision, you can see, down the tunnel there is no light source. There is a layer of untouched dust all across the ground, and interesting texture the further in you go. And then eventually, about 100 feet or so in, the tunnel begins to curve to the left and descend before the arrow lands and sticks into the rock there, splintering a little bit, and your vision now sits there with the arrow. There doesn't appear to be any movement. It is silent and pitch-black.
Laura: Okay. And nothing had walked, it didn't look like there were any tracks. It was just heavy dust.
Matt: From what you could see from the arrow rushing past it, yeah.
Liam: And that gap is just this much?
Matt: It's about that big, yeah.
Liam: And does it go in like that, like a long tunnel of that, or is it-- could I reach my arm through?
Matt: You could reach your arm through. Essentially, it's like the edge of the wall of this tunnel and the rock were kind of jammed together, and she punched through just enough to push past where the rock and the wall had hit, and it created this slight opening, but there's still a bunch of stone there.
Liam: Shit.
Taliesin: It's okay, there's options.
Laura: I shimmy out. It's just a tunnel.
Taliesin: That's good.
Laura: Yeah, it's a long tunnel.
Patrick rothfuss: That means we could make a little bit of noise getting in here, maybe.
Laura: Potentially. Raishan, I think, has rather good hearing. If we make a lot of noise, it might echo down.
Patrick rothfuss: Right.
Taliesin: We have no way of keeping silent, do we? We don't have any way of--
Marisha: I could try, like what you said. I can always, worst-case scenario, burn another 4th-level to finish this off.
Travis: For a door?
Taliesin: We've spent more opening a door.
Marisha: Yes, we have.
Travis: We don't have to spend anything. I'll just beat the shit out of it.
Taliesin: You're our last resort at this point.
Laura: But you do have siege gauntlets, though.
Travis: I do, yeah. I actually have those, like, no one's taken them from me. (laughter)
Liam: Why do you say that right now? How is that relevant to the conversation at hand?
Travis: I just mean, like, they're mine, you know. They work for me, they speak to me. Yeah.
Liam: I've always said as much.
Marisha: Do you have a relationship with all of your inanimate objects?
Travis: I try to work on it at night.
Marisha: Sure.
Taliesin: Wow, I actually do blame myself for this. This is interesting.
Marisha: Why would you say that, Percy?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Marisha: Man, I feel like there's a lot of secrets.
Laura: What do you think? Should we burn another 4th, or should we have Grog punch the little hole a little bit?
Marisha: Well, let me see. I crawl back in the hole.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: You know how, like, a blade of grass can break a block of concrete?
Laura: What?
Marisha: I'm doing some monk shit, all right? (laughter)
Marisha: Okay. Go with me. Okay. You know how plants can break stone when they grow through? If I do a Druidcraft cantrip and try and grow some plants through this hole, will it maybe help crack open a bigger hole?
Travis: Can you fast-forward 1000 years?
Matt: (creeper hissing)
Marisha: No, creeper. No creeper. Okay. I shimmy back out and I say, no, apparently that takes like 1000 years. (laughter)
Laura: Grog. You wanna go punch some shit?
Patrick rothfuss: Hold on for one second. I know you can move this stone, if it allows you to only move certain parts of it, could you use the stone you can shape to effectively carve out a chunk that could be pulled out? Like a very thin, narrow, like just move as much as a finger's-width around and then we could pull that out instead of just pushing it all the way like clay?
Matt: I mean, it could be, but one spell's already been spent.
Laura: So it would just be another spell slot.
Matt: But it would work.
Patrick rothfuss: It would be another spell, but that would be just two to get in, as opposed to endlessly throwing spell after spell at this.
Laura: Well, Grog has siege gauntlets, so he could potentially do some damage to the rock, but it would make noise.
Liam: One second. Percy. I have a nutball idea that maybe you could turn into a better one.
Laura: Doors!
Liam: I pull out the Oil of Etherealness that I've been carrying for ages.
Marisha: The What of Whatness?
Liam: This, it's goop, you rub it on yourself and you become ethereal for an hour. But I can't do it.
Laura: Why?
Liam: There's not enough to cover me. But Scanlan could do it or Pike could do it and could walk through the rock.
Laura: And then do what?
Liam: Look around, see if there's anything to-- I don't know. I prefaced it with saying it was a shitty idea, and I spoke to the brain to see if he could come up with something better.
Travis: We looked for a switch, right?
Marisha: It's a giant rock. It's a boulder.
Taliesin: With handholds on it. It's Fortress of Solitude.
Travis: Can I look for a switch?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: If I solve this... 19. Oh, minus... 17.
Matt: 17. Looking around as they're having this conversation, there's no switches, but you do see fingerholds, like big, dragon-sized fingerholds, like something grabbed it and jammed this boulder in there.
Patrick rothfuss: I actually want to kind of take a look around, too, because if this is a naturally formed rock, a naturally formed opening, this is not like a cork in a bottle. There has to be some parts that don't fit really smoothly. Have we found the best place to make our incursion? Is there an opening? Is there any-- this can't fit snugly into this unless it's been shaped for that purpose.
Taliesin: We can now get enough of a hold to make a lever and move the boulder out a little bit, get us all in, and then drop it back into place. In theory. We have this hole now that's big enough for, let's say, a magical weapon that can't be destroyed? And we can just apply as much pressure, put a bunch of other people pushing on the other side and see if we can open it up enough to get in and then let it close behind us.
Liam: How would Bigby be in this situation?
Marisha: Bigby would be an upper-level spell.
Taliesin: I don't want to burn that right now.
Marisha: Grog. Do you want to try and use some of your basic mechanics of physics? Of leveraging?
Travis: I don't know what that is, but I will assault this stone with a quickness.
Laura: Do it! Just get us in.
Marisha: Don't assault it. Don't insul-- don't insult or assault it. If you could just--
Travis: There's no joy in either of them.
Marisha: I know. I know. This one isn't for you.
Taliesin: Who's got a magical weapon that's very long?
Travis: Kima.
Marisha: If you could take Kima's sword, pry open a crack, let us slip in--
Travis: You ask Kima for the Holy Avenger, I'm not taking that.
Marisha: Well, don't you have the dragon sword?
Travis: You ask Kima for her sword. See how that goes.
Taliesin: Kima.
Matt: "Yes?"
Taliesin: We're thinking about building a giant lever. Could you put your sword in that hole and help us pull very, very hard to see if we can move this boulder?
Matt: "Will it damage the sword?"
Taliesin: In theory, no.
Laura: In theory.
Taliesin: It's a magical sword. Can you break a magical sword with pressure?
Matt: "You ding it, you pay."
Taliesin: That's fair. So I'm going to try and build this lever. All of us are going to put pressure in the other direction, we're going to try and have as many of us moving this thing just a couple feet. Not far. Just far enough to make an opening to get as many of us through as possible.
Matt: All right, so who's doing the leverage?
Liam: Pike is.
Laura: Definitely Pike.
Marisha: Definitely Pike.
Matt: Okay, well, the size of the sword, at most it's going to be one person assisting the main person. Which would be Pike assisting Grog. All right. So as the rest of you guys get on the other side, Grog, I want you to go ahead and roll a strength check.
Marisha: Pike and Grog, Pike and Grog.
Matt: With advantage because of Pike's aid on this.
Travis: Thank god. 23.
Matt: 23, okay. As you guys get on the other side, before you even start getting into position, Grog already begins to pull back on the sword. You watch as Kima keeps glancing over her shoulder like (worried noise). Waiting for it to just snap. But the large rock, the boulder begins to shift ever-so-slightly. You watch as dust and other small pebbles begin to clatter down the outside of the rock. You all get on the other side and, all together as a group, everyone else make strength checks.
Patrick rothfuss: We can use the rod of immobility to brace it if we need to.
Laura: Yeah, that's a good call, because we have two of them, now.
Marisha: Oh, that's such a good idea.
Taliesin: We have holes drilled in the stone by dragon feet.
Marisha: We can just wedge it in there. Yeah. That's a good call, you guys. Wait, we're all doing a strength check?
Laura: 12.
Marisha: Just straight strength?
Matt: Straight strength, so add your strength modifier.
Taliesin: 17.
Marisha: 13.
Liam: 16.
Laura: Did you want Pike's?
Liam: To do what, help prop it up?
Taliesin: Scanlan rolled a four.
Matt: Okay. Okay. So you manage to get about a foot and a half--
Laura: Trinket rolled a 19.
Matt: Okay. So Trinket's also pushing as well. There isn't a whole lot of surface area here to really aid, it's mostly on you, Grog, and you manage to get about a foot and a half wide before you pull out the Immovable Rods and Kerrek, and anybody else who wants to help, you manage to jam them into two of the finger-holes, and as soon as they lock in, you can release the weapon and it's just enough to hold it in place, although it is slowly moving. Each rod can only hold 8,000 pounds. Mind you, it's not holding it entirely aloft, it seems to be holding okay for now.
Liam: I immediately throw Whisper through the crack and bamf through.
Taliesin: I scootch.
Laura: I scootch.
Matt: You guys all pull through. Kima immediately rushes and grabs the sword. You guys charge into the darkness.
Laura: Can Trinket get in or do I need to bamf him in the necklace and bamf him out? Okay, that's what I do.
Matt: You guys all do get inside the tunnel. The boulder does appear to be stationary.
Laura: Should we leave it open, or should we take the rods? We might need to get out in a hurry.
Taliesin: What a wonderfully convenient way to close. And it also means that the dragon will not be able to open the door.
Marisha: Because it's wedged?
Taliesin: It's wedged shut.
Marisha: She could turn into a person. She can also teleport. Let's not forget that. Okay, let's keep going.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Just, let's remember to pick those up, if there's anybody left to get them.
Matt: You guys now stand in the 15-foot-wide, about 12-foot-tall, tunnel entrance to this mountainside. As you saw before, the floor itself has a layer of dust. There's a heavy smell of ancient rot and stagnant water and wet earth. The rock walls of the pathway are rough, but appear to have been intentionally carved for a purpose more than any sort of presentational element of it. There's no wind, there's no movement of air. Everything in here has been, at least in this portion of it, still and untouched for quite some time. As you guys push forward through this tunnel, to where it begins to make its slow descent--
Laura: Stealth.
Matt: You guys? All right.
Liam: Checking, checking, checking. 24.
Laura: Oh, this is investigation.
Taliesin: I thought you were stealthing.
Laura: Oh, was that a stealth roll or an investigation roll? That was investigation, right?
Matt: That was investigation. 24?
Laura: Dogshit. 11.
Matt: Okay. We'll have to make-- we'll say, make new stealth checks since you guys have come out of stealth and you're back in. But as you guys are moving down the curvature of the tunnel, Vax, you notice that there are, amongst the dust and pebbles of the floor, small pieces and chunks of other material. Most of them very small, maybe anywhere from a pebble size to the size of this die or a little larger. And they're different than the rock, they're a lighter material, and almost porous upon close look, as you take one and look at it.
Liam: Scanlan and Keyleth, come up here, please. Do you know what that is?
Marisha: What is it?
Matt: You've seen this before, actually, in a subterranean place once before, although it was a large field of it at the time. There are a number of scattered shards of bone, just kind of scattered and cracked and broken across the floor. Not a very thick mat, but just here and there, peppered throughout the walkway.
Marisha: These are dead things. This is bone. Yeah.
Matt: You also do notice, upon looking at a few of them on the ground, now having the context, a lot of them look blackened, a lot of them look like they've been charred, burnt.
Laura: Hey, Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah?
Laura: When you did the scrying thing, how long did it take to get down in the tunnels? Was it a lot of tunnels before you got to the laboratory?
Marisha: In terms of my vision?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You don't know. It looked like you're at this point, and then you're there. So you have no idea.
Laura: It's less than a mile down, I know.
Marisha: It kind of rushes past you really fast, it's a little disorienting.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: No traps?
Matt: No traps at the moment, no.
Laura: Should we all stealth?
Patrick rothfuss: These are just here so that people step on them and it makes noise?
Liam: It's a theory. We already stealthed.
Laura: I thought we had to reroll stealth.
Liam: Oh, I did.
Marisha: Can I do a-- this is some CSI shit.
Matt: You guys are going stealth, right? All right, so roll your stealth checks, please.
Travis: Plus ten?
Laura: 30.
Liam: 35.
Taliesin: 34. And then Scanlan...
Marisha: 30 total.
Travis: 28.
Laura: 25 for Pike.
Travis: No, sorry. Oh, 30.
Taliesin: 18 for Scanlan.
Patrick rothfuss: 29 for me.
Matt: Great, awesome. All right, so, as you guys continue progressing down this curving tunnel, it goes into a very, very mild descent.
Marisha: Can I do-- I wanna do a quick check. This is some Bones-type shit. Can I see if these bones were charred recently, or once again, if these bones have been there for a long time? I know this is some weird carbon-dating shit.
Matt: Make a nature check on this, actually. This is your understanding at least of how fire against bone, which is--
Marisha: Ooh, that's good. 28.
Matt: 28. Yeah, so understanding especially in the Pyrah, and noticing the difference and just your experience of natural animals and creatures that have been cooked to be eaten, and the effect of the fire on the bones that are left behind, this bone charring is not as ancient as, say, the trees that have withered, but they're aren't-- they're years old at the very least, if not longer.
Marisha: Years old, if not longer.
Matt: Yeah, there's a layer of dust on these bones, as well, that shows that at least they have been untouched for a short time.
Marisha: Okay. But wait, was Thordak here over a year ago?
Taliesin: Could have been, yeah.
Laura: He was here for a long time before-- he was here before he got the thing, right?
Matt: Yeah. He made this his lair after avoiding death from J'mon Sa Ord in Ank'harel, and then recuperated here, from what you know, and then made this his domain for a while, and then pressed northward in Tal'Dorei, which is where--
Marisha: That's when Allura and her team encountered him.
Matt: Correct. That's when Thordak battled Raishan and began the beginning of the formulation of the Conclave, that's when Thordak destroyed Byroden and by proxy, their mother. That's when all of that went down.
Liam: While we're quiet here, in the dark, I pull Pike over to the side. Pike!
Laura: Yes?
Liam: I have a bad-- will you take care of my sister? You have that one thing that you do, I don't know what it's called, but if she falls down, she gets back up again. Do you know what I'm talking about?
Laura: Is that the Death Ward? It's a thing. I talk to Sarenrae and then she protects them for a little bit of time.
Liam: Could you do that to my sister now?
Laura: Feels a little selfish, but sure. (laughter)
Liam: I thought of it.
Laura: I mean, if you want me to do it.
Liam: I do, I do.
Laura: Sure, why not? I walk up to me. I guess Pike will cast Death Ward on Vex.
Matt: Okay. So that's a 4th-level spell off Pike, and for the next eight hours, Vex is Death Warded.
Liam: When you're brought down to zero, you ping up to one, is the math on that.
Marisha: It's kind of like buying Starbucks with the company Amex.
Laura: Feels a little weird, not gonna lie.
Liam: It's just strategy, man. Game strategy. Well, it's done, and my sister is a little safer than she was before, and y'all can go fuck yourselves.
Marisha: So easy when you have the pin code. (laughter)
Liam: This one and this one on me.
Laura: Yeah, it's totally cool.
Liam: Out of character, Matt pooped out this new feature to dying, and she's on her last fucking string, man. No regrets, move forward.
Matt: To be fair, I'm still toying with it, because it's one of the things that I'm adjusting as we go.
Liam: Well, you said it and the spell is cast.
Matt: That's not true at all.
Marisha: You freaked everyone out, Matt.
Matt: Oh, I can keep it if you want.
Marisha: No, don't worry about it.
Taliesin: You're literally wearing a creeper shirt, you have to be careful what you say. God, every time.
Matt: It's a rule that I'm working with. I may have jumped the gun in releasing it at the time as I'm working on the campaign guide, but one of the resurrection rules, I was deciding the DC, I think five per death is a bit intense, so I might adjust it more to be a two. Just 'cause I was thinking, in a long-term campaign, your character might die a lot more between levels one and 20. And then it gets a little insane. So I'm working on it.
Liam: Listen, I help my sister, okay?
Matt: Mind you, she's still closer to death, but yes.
Marisha: Mind you, she's still closer to death.
Patrick rothfuss: Just to ask a little bit, as we're going down here, I don't know how everyone else is geared up, but I'm kind of vanilla human here, and not that equipped to see in the dark.
Matt: Yeah, in fact, currently Percival and Kerrek are blind. Like, pitch-black blind.
Laura: Wait, light your little dagger up.
Matt: All right--
Patrick rothfuss: Actually, you probably just hear Kerrek say, I am sorry, but at this point I can't see at all.
Liam: I'm always holding two, and one of them is, I pull out the Flametongue Dagger, and I wave a fly away--
Laura: This gnat, this fucking gnat.
Liam: And I hold it so that Kerrek can see, and I say, we might die, so try it one more time with me. Irish wristwatch. Just once more, before we die.
Patrick rothfuss: I dreamed about this last night. (laughter)
Taliesin: It's a tough one.
Patrick rothfuss: Irish wr-- (laughs) (cheering)
Patrick rothfuss: Irish wristwatch. (cheering)
Matt: There you go. Well done.
Liam: I feel so much closer to you now. Let's fucking do this.
Matt: The dagger, which emits flame on it, is the equivalent of a candle. He can see about 15 feet beyond you, and that's it.
Patrick rothfuss: Well, actually, I'll say, as soon as I say, are we okay with light? Or are we trying to keep it as dark as possible? Because--
Liam: Too late now.
Laura: A little bit of light.
Liam: There's a candle.
Matt: There is now a flame licking the edge of the blade that's being held aloft. So light is being shed now in the tunnel. Though not a lot.
Travis: You know, you could put that out and they could just grab onto each one of our arms and move forward.
Marisha: Yeah, I go and find Percy.
Taliesin: Okay.
Marisha: And I link arms.
Travis: Oh, jeez. Hey, Kerr, you wanna cuddle?
Patrick rothfuss: Actually, yes. (laughter)
Travis: Hey, Vax. Put that light out.
Matt: All right, so Kerrek, there's a moment of quiet and stillness in the darkness, as you feel the ground beneath you shift ever-so-slightly. Heavy footfalls approaching you as suddenly a large, muscled, somewhat sweaty arm just curls around the outside of your shoulders and pulls you close to Grog's torso.
Patrick rothfuss: It is one of the most comforting things I have ever experienced. (laughter)
Travis: I love it. I love it!
Liam: We're about to die.
Laura: No, no, no.
Marisha: Okay, I kinda guide Percy as we go through.
Matt: So you guys are making your way down this slow grade beneath. Yes.
Marisha: Being stealthy as fuck.
Matt: You make incremental checks as we go. Eventually, as the grade continues downward, you begin to see the hallway open up ever-so-slightly, and what was once just somewhat rough rock walls begin having slight shapes or details to them. It's still hard to see. Darkvision is-- you still need a little light to make out fine details or things at a distance, but it does help you at least make out the basic shapes and things ahead of you. You see what appear to be small shelves or alcoves that are now beginning to show up every 20 or so feet as you progress down. Little bits of rock that jut out that look like they were either bolted in or crafted on top of it, and you see small, little cubbies, almost, little alcoves that are put into the rock as well.
Laura: Hold your little dagger up to it, I want to see what it is.
Liam: You're sure?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Liam: That's pretty good. That is 29.
Matt: Okay. You glance in the first one to your immediate right, which is a small shelf outward, and you see what appear to be a number of dust-covered-- a cluster of candles that have long burned and melted into dripping wax that pours down the side of this alcove. That's it on that particular shelf.
Laura: Careful. Maybe keep it out, just keep an eye out. It's hard to see down here.
Liam: I can look at these after.
Laura: No, I just, I mean for traps. Psh.
Matt: Okay. So you're searching for traps now?
Liam: Constantly.
Matt: Go ahead and make another investigation check with disadvantage.
Laura: 'Cause it's dark. See? If you'd pulled your dagger out, it wouldn't be so bad.
Liam: Good suggestion. Still at disadvantage?
Laura: If his dagger's out?
Matt: Let me double-check, here. It's kind of a frustratingly broken ability in some cases if it just is universally in here.
Laura: I'm gonna pull out the flying carpet. (laughs) And I'm gonna walk over to--
Matt: So you can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light, so you have about 15 feet you can kind of see out in front of you in straight darkness. If you have your dagger out, you can see pretty decently for 60 feet, is how it works.
Liam: But if it's gone, I can see 15 feet ahead?
Matt: Kinda shitty in 15 feet.
Laura: I'm gonna give the--
Liam: So regular checks, if the dagger's out.
Matt: For, at least, 60 feet for you.
Liam: And this is investigation. 18.
Matt: Okay. Nothing seems to catch your attention. As you continue pushing forward, you see one more of these shelves. Are you looking at each one as you go?
Liam: Yeah, right now I am.
Matt: Okay. As you glance past, another perception check.
Laura: Hey, Grog. So I have this flying carpet...
Liam: 22.
Matt: 22. Okay. You can see on the left shelf appears to be a humanoid skull that's up on top, next to two more candles, one of them more melted than the other, but the wax drips past. There's a shelf across the way on the opposite side that appears to have a couple of small books that are put off to the side, and what looks like a small wooden box.
Liam: Is the box trapped?
Matt: Roll an investigation check.
Liam: That is a 22.
Matt: Box does not appear trapped, from what you can tell.
Liam: Nah, fuck it.
Taliesin: Put it in the Bag of Holding.
Liam: I don't.
Matt: Okay, continue walking?
Liam: Mm-hm. Looking for traps.
Matt: Okay. As you continue, keeping an eye out in front of you, the next shelf you come across looks to have some sort of a mummified racoon-type creature that is propped up. (laughter)
Matt: Not taxidermied, by any means. It just looks like it dried out in a sort of standing position, or at least is leaning against the wall of the platform.
Marisha: Oh, like some weird Pompeii shit? Like he died that way?
Matt: Kind of. Literally just shriveled.
Laura: Grog, would you be able to use a flying carpet in battle to get up to a dragon?
Travis: I have no idea.
Laura: It could be useful.
Matt: Kerrek, do you have something you wanted to say?
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah, I'm just gonna-- blind as a bat as I am, I'm gonna use Divine Sense to see if I can sense any undead, corrupt, fiend, it's kind of a long list, but I do know corrupt was mentioned in there.
Taliesin: Also, Vax, what were the titles of those books? Earpiece, listening to your vague description of things.
Liam: Thank you for retconning that. Yeah, we'll ask him. Yeah, but I would've read them if I could've. I'm not Grog.
Taliesin: Grog would've read them, even if he just made up words.
Matt: You do sense that there is some sort of an undead presence in your vicinity, Kerr, though you do not quite know what its nature is or its direction. There is something undead near you.
Marisha: Oh, jeez. She didn't bring Thordak back, did she? We're gonna have to fight an undead dragon.
Patrick rothfuss: Do I get a sense of-- is it just, yes, it is present, I don't get any sense of direction or intensity? I'm assuming this isn't my first rodeo. Everybody bumps into skeletons early in their career.
Matt: Correct. I would say it does not appear to be any extreme-- yeah, it does not appear to be an extremely powerful undead presence. You can't tell size or direction, by any means, but it's not like all of a sudden there's a lich ahead of you or some massive arrival of Orcus. You just sense something around you that is an undead energy.
Laura: Around us? Like how close around us, can he sense that?
Liam: I mean, this could be crypt shit on the sides. I'm gonna focus a little more on the ground.
Matt: Okay, do you guys all continue moving forward?
Taliesin: I did ask about the books, the titles of the books.
Liam: Yes, he asked me through the earpiece what the books said. Could I read them when I saw them?
Matt: What languages do you know?
Liam: Common, Elvish, and Abyssal?
Matt: You do not know the title of the books.
Liam: Tighter Buns in 30 Days is the only title I saw. Looking for traps.
Matt: All right. Roll another investigation check.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25, okay. You continue to push forward. There is no trap set. You do look ahead and see what appears to be the pathway is now showing stonework at times, almost like there are slabs, elements of a tunnel that was once better constructed than what exists, but is either eroded away or elements of wall collapse have covered what was once a very, very ancient form of architecture.
Liam: As a precaution, I'm going to, as much as I can, stay to the stuff that looks natural or fucked-up and not civilized.
Patrick rothfuss: Hold on, first, I'm sorry. I just found my specific description. It does say I sense type and location.
Matt: It does say that, I totally missed that.
Patrick rothfuss: So long as it's not behind total cover.
Matt: Got you. Okay. Then you sense there is something. You know it's from one of the wall areas, but you cannot see, and your one single bit of light source is ahead of you in the tunnel. But you do sense, at one point as you're walking, it is to the left of you.
Patrick rothfuss: Okay. I say, there is an unclean thing here.
Travis: Well, fuck, I'm sorry, it's just not a priority for me, all right? (laughter)
Travis: I mean, I put my arm down off his shoulder, I'll grant him at least that.
Patrick rothfuss: It's not you, Grog, there's some undead thing here, and I say, it's off to the left. To my left.
Taliesin: The left hand of the tunnel.
Patrick rothfuss: But I don't know what's around here.
Laura: Can we see anything on the walls that looks like a door or anything?
Matt: Are you stopping? 'Cause you two are moving ahead of everyone else, so you guys are probably a good 15, 20 feet ahead. You want to move back with them?
Laura: No, no.
Travis: Can I look to the left, just off him saying that, because of the Belt of Dwarvenkind I have Darkvision?
Matt: You do. You glance off to the left. You can see upon that shelf unit there, there are the two candles and the singular skull set on the shelf.
Travis: I start to slowly make my way over to the skull.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Gods damn it.
Matt: Kerrek, you feel Grog slowly step in the direction that you pointed out to him.
Travis: Is this the direction?
Patrick rothfuss: Yes.
Travis: Are we getting warmer?
Patrick rothfuss: Yes, it's over there. I'm not bringing my hammer out, but my hammer's ready.
Travis: What does the skull look like?
Matt: It looks like a human skull.
Travis: Anything shiny about it, or jewelled?
Matt: No, it looks kind of dust-covered. You can see what looks to be-- the bone itself appears to have a hint of blackened soot, or some sort of a darker color to it, like it's been slightly singed.
Travis: Candles look like candles?
Matt: Candles look like mostly melted candles.
Travis: Kerr, I hate to rain on your parade, but I only see two candles and a human skull up here.
Patrick rothfuss: Partial undead thing... do I know, again, obviously nothing is trying to eat our faces off here, but can you turn an undead thing into just like a watcher or a trap or a spy or a trigger?
Matt: Make an intelligence check, or make a religion check. Make a religion check.
Laura: Oh, it could be watching through the skull. You're brilliant, Kerr! Fuck.
Patrick rothfuss: You know, that's about a 12.
Matt: Okay.
Patrick rothfuss: Not my best.
Matt: Best that you can understand is, undead magic can raise dead, it can control dead. You have heard stories of undead or the use of them being more situational, as opposed to just roaming as zombies, but that's as much as you can call off the top of your head. It's been a while since you've been adventuring, so the specific stories are a little too foggy.
Taliesin: Yeah, it could be a security camera.
Patrick rothfuss: Actually, I say, if there's-- give me the skull. And I'm just reaching out blindly in his direction.
Travis: All right. I grab the skull and hand it to Kerr.
Matt: Okay.
Patrick rothfuss: And then I'll use Divine Sense again. Is it this?
Matt: It is, the skull is the source of the undead energy. It is not currently moving or reacting or having any sort of reaction to being held by you.
Patrick rothfuss: I say, anybody mind if I wreck this thing?
Travis: No, I do not mind at all, thank god there's someone else in this world with my sort of thinking.
Liam: What are you doing back there?
Travis: Hold on. I grab my earring, and I say, Kerr found a human skull that has some undead vibes vibrating out of it.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: But it's not doing anything. Do you mind if we destroy it?
Liam: He's already holding it?
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: Well, I mean, if anything was gonna happen, we're probably fucked already, so I don't know.
Taliesin: Actually, where's Kima?
Matt: That's a good point. What is your guys' marching order, by the way? I know the twins are in the front.
Taliesin: Then I think it's you and Kerr, and then me and--
Matt: Grog and Kerr, Keyleth and Percy--
Taliesin: Ash and Scanlan.
Matt: Ash and Scanlan after that. And then we have-- do you have Trinket out of the necklace, right? Then probably Kima and Allura back with Trinket in the back. So they're kind of holding up the rear and keeping an eye out behind as they go.
Taliesin: I think destroying it will trigger it.
Liam: I'm kind of for leaving things alone as we go through here, Percival.
Travis: I mean, we can leave it alone.
Laura: I could do Sacred Flame on it, and it would do radiant damage to it.
Marisha: What if we turn and just face the skull so it's looking into the corner.
Laura: Sure.
Marisha: So it's not looking at us.
Liam: I think dicking with it in the first place might have already ruined us, but yeah, let's just set it down, turn it around.
Travis: Hey, Kerr, they're worried we're gonna kill ourselves. Can you just put it back, but face it towards the wall like it's in time out?
Patrick rothfuss: Sure. If I've got a spare sack, I'll stuff it in the sack and point it towards the wall.
Matt: Okay. So you pull out the extra, kind of a heavy burlap sack, you throw the skull in there, tie it taut, and set it back up on the shelf, facing away from where you're standing.
Taliesin: Do not underestimate the power of burlap.
Laura: We should've come down in the tunnel wearing pantyhose on our heads so Raishan wouldn't have known.
Taliesin: Just thought it was a college prank?
Marisha: Oh man, we should totally invest in those little pantyhose eggs.
Liam: Delta lambda again, sneaking in, aw.
Matt: Every time!
Liam: I don't know enough about that to say that correctly, either.
Matt: Continuing onward, into the next length of the tunnel, about another 50 feet or so, there is-- the room opens up, and you can see that stonework eventually takes the entire floor, and the chamber opens up into what looks to be almost like a hexagonal-shaped chamber that ends at a large iron door. It fills the entirety of the chamber, and it seals off any progression from that point. Make a perception check.
Travis: Vex-agonal shaped.
Laura: Vex-agonal? Should I make a perception check, too, since I'm near it?
Matt: Sure.
Liam: 22.
Laura: Oh god, that was almost a one. But it's not, it was a 15.
Matt: Okay. So 15 total? Okay. As you glance, you can see at the center of this chamber there looks to be-- let's see here. Okay, yeah. There stands a pillar of dark green marble, about ten feet, 15 feet away from where the iron door is, and what looks to be a roughly forged bowl of iron that is imperfect and is bolted to the top of this pillar.
Liam: On the top or out the side of the top?
Matt: Resting on top of it, and it's about maybe five, six feet up, and there is a platform that leads up to it. So maybe if you were standing on the little dais around it, it'd be about chest-height to you.
Liam: How tall is this chamber?
Matt: The chamber's whole height would be about 25 feet. You also see, off to the right, what appears to be another shelf that contains a very, very large leather-bound tome and what looks to be a cold iron brazier that is unburnt but has a bunch of dried tinder in it.
Laura: Oh, god.
Liam: Oh, come here, come here.
Laura: What?
Liam: There's some shit, there's some ingredients in that, ready to go.
Laura: There's ingredients?
Liam: Yeah, there's something in that brazier over there that she hasn't burned yet.
Taliesin: Can I get a little light in here, just for a second?
Liam: I'm holding.
Matt: You have a tiny bit of candlelight. You can see about ten, 15 feet around Vax.
Taliesin: Okay, so I can't see the mechanism on the door.
Matt: You do not even know there's a door there.
Taliesin: Okay, that's fair. For the best, it would just scare me.
Laura: I mean, would it be helpful if everyone could see?
Taliesin: Take a look around.
Marisha: No one else is in this room, yeah? Can the half-elves with Darkvision do a little--
Matt: Make perception checks.
Liam: I'll do that, and I'm also going to do Divine Sense here.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil. Oh, thanks, Gil! That's not bad! Perception, right? 26.
Travis: 16.
Liam: 22.
Matt: There does not appear to be anybody else in this chamber with you, and from your Divine Sense, you do not sense any undead within 60 feet of you right now.
Liam: There's no undead dragons walking around.
Travis: Can I look for invisible dragons? No, I'm kidding.
Taliesin: You see seven.
Laura: So, Light? Should we light it up?
Matt: He doesn't sense any undead within 60 feet, that's the range of it.
Liam: Right. How far from the gate to the far side of the room, is the first question.
Matt: The doorway, you mean?
Liam: I'm at a gate that blocks us from going in, is that correct?
Matt: No, you're entering this chamber, then on the opposite side of the room there is a larger door that prevents you from progressing beyond the doorway. In between you and that door, there is that raised platform, the pillar, and the iron bowl, and then to the right and against the wall, there is the brazier and the shelf with the singular tome.
Laura: Does it look like-- when we entered the chamber, does it look like a door would come down or something when it opened up into the chamber?
Liam: Right, is there a gap, like a crack that something could slide down out of right above where we are?
Matt: Glancing up, based on your perception rolls, you don't see anything that would dictate any sort of exit or entranceway from the ceiling.
Liam: And in addition to everything we see, do we see levers, do we see panels, do we see anything on the walls in this room?
Matt: No, there's standard stone, old stone masonry. You can see chunks that have broken off and just fallen over the years, there's a couple small cave-in areas where it looks like rocks have just tumbled in as the general shifting of the island has caused some elements to fall loose and tumble in.
Marisha: Keyleth is gonna go ahead and light up her fire hands.
Matt: Okay. That gives a bigger radius. Comparable torchlight to Keyleth, and now Kerrek and Percival, you guys can both have a much better view of the room. You can see now this iron bowl on top of this pillar in the center. You can just make out the large iron wall or door on the opposite side, and a little bit of the brazier and the tome.
Taliesin: I've built a fire-lock mechanism for a door before. Would I recognize this as being a set a fire in the bowl and that might open the door?
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Taliesin: I built one for the Raven Queen temple.
Marisha: Go Percy, go Percy, go.
Taliesin: Intelligence check? That's, with my new intelligence level, that's a 19.
Matt: 19. Best you can glance here, I mean, it's possible, but this--
Taliesin: It's magic.
Matt: You don't know. The room itself is ancient, and the construction, there is nothing that appears to be mechanically attached.
Taliesin: So if it did, it would be magical. If that was--
Matt: Yeah, there's no chain, pulley system visible at all. Where the door hits the seam of the room, it looks very smooth.
Laura: Can I go look in the bowl, the bowl in the middle of the room, and just look and see if there's a residue of anything in it?
Matt: Sure, you can make an investigation check.
Patrick rothfuss: Can I just say that when the lights came up, Kerr kind of, he'd been leaning into Grog maybe more than was entirely appropriate. So he kind of stood up a little better on his own to get out of it.
Matt: Right. (clears throat)
Liam: Luckily, no one saw you, because of that robe.
Laura: 26.
Matt: As you look down into the bowl, you can make out what looks to be a very, very faint long-dried residue just at the very, very bottom of it. Some sort of a liquid that was once in there that has since dried up entirely and left this very, very faint, just a slight shift in texture other than the hammered iron.
Laura: No color change or anything on it?
Matt: Not that you can really tell, no. You're just looking into this dark bowl with a little bit of light source.
Laura: Well, I don't actually touch it.
Taliesin: Do you have something sharp to just scrape some off?
Liam: While she's doing that, I'm just going to quietly extend my wings now.
Matt: Your wings.
Laura: Oh yeah, I get out a lockpick and scrape it to see if I can--
Patrick rothfuss: Holy shit! (laughter)
Liam: They're pretty cool, aren't they.
Laura: They take up a lot of room, though, so.
Liam: No, they don't. They go out and they slam back into my back.
Matt: Yeah, Kerrek, as they're having this conversation, you're looking, watching as this small half-elf rogue that you've had a few encounters with suddenly just sends this pair of large jet-black raven-like wings that fire from his shoulderblades and slowly fold behind him.
Taliesin: They don't work. He just does that to be an asshole.
Marisha: It's all a cosplay prop. That's all it is.
Patrick rothfuss: Strikes a bit of a figure, though, doesn't he?
Taliesin: No, it's very attractive.
Liam: I heard Percival say that.
Laura: Scratch-scratch, scrape-scrape.
Matt: You're scraping the--
Laura: Yeah, just to see what the residue is.
Matt: Okay, it scrapes up, it creates a small, almost like a dried powder-type substance.
Laura: What color is it?
Matt: It's like a dark burgundy.
Laura: This is fucking blood.
Taliesin: Can I taste it?
Matt: Yeah, taste it, has kind of an iron-like taste.
Marisha: Oh, it's so blood. Oh, you're so right.
Laura: Maybe we should just bleed into this bowl and the door will open.
Taliesin: Tempting.
Travis: I can do that.
Laura: Necromancy?
Marisha: I think that's the word, yeah.
Taliesin: Do we recognize the architecture of the door, and I also want to take a look at that book. What is the book's language, what does it look like? I'm not picking it up yet, I'm just looking at it on the shelf.
Matt: The leather tome which is currently leaning up against it has no text on the cover and no text on the spine, but it is big. It's about that big. So it's like a tome.
Travis: Is it made of skin?
Matt: Grog, do you want to go over and check it out?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Okay. It appears to be a thick leather. It's hard to tell in this light if it was made from tanned hide or tanned flesh, but it is old.
Liam: As we're watching Grog, I just lean over and say, you know, you are criticizing the size of my wings, you are walking around with a Persian rug, a broom, and a longbow strapped to your back.
Laura: I tried to give this rug to someone else, but Grog didn't want to take it.
Marisha: And then I come up and I say, can I pet your wings? I've never pet them before.
Laura: There's things going on in this room.
Matt: You can hear this heavy sigh from Allura behind you, she's like, (sighs). "I'm just, this is my first time actually adventuring with you."
Marisha: This is our method.
Taliesin: We're going to see if we put the PDA in the bowl, see if that'll--
Matt: "Oh, don't get me wrong, it just reminds me of my early days as an adventurer, and I forgot just how ridiculous we were, so."
Travis: Is there still tinder under the--
Matt: Yeah, there's the iron brazier and there's a lot of dried-- inside there, yeah.
Taliesin: Well, we do have samples of blood, in theory, in the Bag of Holding.
Laura: We've got dragon blood. I'm gonna get out a vial of dragon blood. (feedback sound)
Liam: Oh, jeez.
Taliesin: You've caused a feedback loop.
Liam: She's coming!
Marisha: We are Spinal Tap!
Laura: What is it?
Matt: I don't know.
Laura: I put the dragon blood away.
Liam: Are there any holes in the ceiling I can see like there were in the last cave?
Marisha: I have this ringing in my ear.
Matt: There do not appear to be holes in the ceiling, no.
Laura: What should I do? Wait, I've also got other kinds of blood, let me see what kinds of blood I've got.
Taliesin: Is the book trapped?
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24? Looking at the book, are you taking it off the shelf or are you--
Liam: No, I'm looking at it, man.
Matt: Looking at it. It looks like it is just resting against the wall. The shelf unit is not trapped, the book itself does not appear to have any sort of connection to the wall, you can see the pages themselves are weathered, old, stained, but intact.
Liam: Is anyone near me?
Matt: Currently, Percival's a step or two behind you.
Taliesin: I'm holding onto the wing.
Liam: I push back slowly with my wings. Just get 15, 20 behind me. I'm gonna bring it to you. I'm gonna try to take this fucking book off, okay? If I'm going to go down, I don't want you to go down as well, all right?
Travis: Are you about to die right now?
Marisha: Don't, Ve-- Vax. (laughter)
Marisha: I love you! I know your name on my good days.
Travis: (chanting) Grab it, grab it, grab it.
Liam: I get back about ten feet and I take my wing and I scootch it--
Laura: Oh wait, you know what?
Matt: As you're saying this, the book (impact) and hits the ground. It scatters open.
Liam: Oh, it's open? Percival, come here. And I light it up, just to look at the pages that are there.
Matt: So you take the dagger and you place it over there. You don't recognize the text. And you try and focus on it, too, and you don't recognize it, either. It's like the more you look at the text, the text gets smaller and smaller and smaller until it's microscopic. It just looks like a mess of symbols and details. It's weird, it's almost like as you get closer, the perspective keeps shifting away from you, to where you cannot actually make out or read the text in the book.
Travis: How's it feel?
Taliesin: I'm gonna flip gently, with a gloved hand, flip through a couple pages just to see if it's text, text, text, or if there's any--
Matt: As of right now, it looks like there's just text. As you go through, every page seems to have the same sort of reaction, where as your eyes try and focus in the low light, the text just gets smaller and smaller and just avoid comprehension.
Taliesin: I'm going to flip to the front really quickly and see if there's a title.
Matt: There is a title, and as you look at it, the title itself seems to be blurred and obscured and begins to shrink as well. It's like trying to put on a pair of reading glasses that won't focus.
Taliesin: I know that feeling.
Liam: Allura, will you have a look at this?
Matt: She comes over. Kerr, what are you doing?
Patrick rothfuss: I'll actually bring out my hammer and, assuming that I can get close to the book as well, it does the same thing for me?
Matt: As you get close and look, yes, the same thing, your vision doesn't seem to focus on the text, the pages seem to just hide from--
Patrick rothfuss: I was going to say, are we okay with more light?
Travis: Yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: Kind of looking around. Okay. Then I'll effectively, I'll activate the hammer.
Matt: Okay. As he pulls his warhammer in front of him, you watch as the head of it, the spike in the back--
Patrick rothfuss: There is no head, it's just kind of a bar of iron that he has until he holds it up, and then the head of it comes into being as an artifact of radiant light.
Marisha: Oh, that's cool!
Matt: So what would've been the back of the hammer, the front of it is, like you said, missing entirely, and it just blazes forth with radiant energy, like a giant, glowing metallic end of a weapon.
Patrick rothfuss: I'd also like to think that it makes a noise like a lightsaber, but that's just--
Matt: (lightsaber sound) as it happens. The room is now much brighter, and you can see the details of the stonework around you. The mustiness seems to almost back away instinctually from the radiant light itself, almost warms the air in its vicinity.
Marisha: It smells like strawberries!
Taliesin: That's me.
Matt: It's very weird strawberries, probably. As the light hits the pages, the pages go almost blank. The text just shrinks away to the point where it looks like there's just tiny, tiny dots.
Taliesin: I think I've solved this!
Laura: What?
Taliesin: Let's extinguish all the lights, and someone with low-light vision has to read it.
Laura: Okay. Grog.
Travis: Yeah?
Taliesin: No. That's not funny.
Laura: I mean, sure, yeah, extinguish all the lights. I wanna go and see if I can read it.
Patrick rothfuss: Switch off the hammer.
Matt: Okay. The head of the warhammer flickers out, leaving just the handle behind. You go ahead and look at it, and the text is more legible there on the page, but it's still blurred to your vision.
Laura: I think I need glasses. It's blurry.
Taliesin: Do we have anybody with perfect nightvision?
Marisha: Perfect nightvision?
Patrick rothfuss: 20-20 nightvision?
Taliesin: Well, I can't see a thing.
Marisha: Nothing, for you?
Laura: Nah, it's blurry.
Marisha: Still blurry? I look over Vex's shoulder. Maybe, I don't know, anything? I know Primordial.
Liam: Might be that we're too nice.
Travis: Maybe if you put something in the pot and set it on fire, by that light, you'll--
Marisha: Scanlan goes up and looks at it.
Taliesin: Begrudgingly.
Matt: Scanlan glances over. "It's fine to me. I don't know what your problem was. No, I have no idea what's on the pages, I'm just messing with you." (groaning)
Matt: "Sorry, guys!"
Marisha: I thought we figured something out.
Laura: That's actually a really good idea, Grog. Maybe we should light the brazier.
Taliesin: We should light the brazier. That, or raid the cabinets we passed.
Matt: Allura, who's-- oh, so you're going to light the brazier with your hand?
Marisha: Oh, I don't know. I was lighting my hand. I can do it.
Taliesin: We're bringing the light back.
Matt: Okay, so the room fills with light once more. Kerrek, you can bring your hammer back if you'd like.
Liam: We're basically all running around the room in circles.
Matt: Yeah, you guys are just charging around.
Marisha: Are we gonna light this brazier? Keyleth goes up and just sticks her flaming hand right down into the middle of the brazier.
Matt: Okay. Your hand hits the top of the kindling, at which point the wood catches, and there's a slight flash as the extremely explosive materials that were within the brazier detonate, causing Percival, Allura, Vex, and Vax, who were also reading the book nearby, to all have to make a dexterity saving throw. As there's a sudden (explosion). It explodes with a force.
Marisha: Do I make a dexterity save as well?
Matt: You don't make it, you just take the damage, since you were at ground zero.
Marisha: Yeah, that's fair.
Patrick rothfuss: To be fair, I was right next to the book as well.
Matt: That's right. So you go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw as well, Kerrek.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Laura: 22.
Taliesin: 24.
Liam: 16 and a Luck blown.
Matt: Kerrek, what'd you get?
Patrick rothfuss: I got a three.
Laura: Oh no, Kerr!
Matt: Oh, Allura made it, okay. Everyone but Kerrek made the saving throw. So Kerrek and Keyleth, you both take 32 points of fire damage. The rest of you take 16. You take none because you're a rogue.
Liam: Yeah. I start breakdancing, doing the worm underneath the blast. Jeez, all right. The Luck wasn't blown, because the other roll was a one.
Marisha: Grog! Did you see that?
Travis: I did, but everything's really, really bright right now.
Matt: Your ears are ringing from the blast of the impact, the brazier's just, all the metal's just bent outward and ruined.
Travis: I've just got the lit-up shapes of a bunch of people going like that.
Matt: As Keyleth turns around, you can see just her hair's blown back a bit. She's like a cartoon character.
Taliesin: This has happened to me dozens of times.
Marisha: That was awesome.
Laura: If Raishan didn't hear us before, she potentially heard us now.
Taliesin: At least now we don't have to try and stealth anymore.
Marisha: (shouting) Is the door open? I'm sorry if I'm speaking loudly! (laughter)
Matt: The door is not open.
Marisha: (shouting) The door is not open?
Laura: We need blood.
Taliesin: The book's fine, I assume?
Matt: The book has burned entirely. It is destroyed.
Taliesin: That's awesome.
Travis: Who cares about books?
Matt: And you see Allura, who made the save but took some damage, is at the back and is kind of chuckling to herself, goes, "Well, I think now we know the purpose of the book."
Marisha: What?
Laura: Oh, that dick book.
Travis: No fucking way.
Matt: "It was well-played, and curse be on the one who thought that up."
Laura: (laughs) I know who that is. (laughter)
Taliesin: Do I recognize the smell of whatever they used to ignite that, or was it more mystical in nature?
Matt: It was a sort of mixture of extremely flammable liquids. It was not black powder.
Taliesin: Okay, I was just curious. All right. Well. Let's try and pour some of the dragon blood into the bowl and see if that does it.
Travis: Does what?
Laura: Opens the door.
Travis: Oh.
Taliesin: Let's blow a vial, see what happens.
Laura: Dragon blood is so expensive.
Travis: Can't we just knock it down?
Laura: I have basilisk blood, black dragon blood, and white dragon blood.
Taliesin: Let's try basilisk and work our way up.
Travis: They're worth 7000 gold each.
Laura: I know, that's why the basilisk is better. One basilisk vial.
Matt: Okay, so as you uncork and let it flow, and it's thick, syrupy, it hits and it pools. A moment passes. Two moments. Nothing.
Laura: Fuck. I pull out my opal dagger and I just cut my hand and drip it in.
Matt: Okay. The basilisk blood that's still in there, you bleed into the basilisk blood, and it pools in the center of it. And you watch as the blood that you just dropped gets pulled beneath the surface of the basilisk blood and out of sight.
Laura: Creepy. Is the door opening?
Matt: From the few drops of blood you put in there, it has not opened.
Laura: It's like a kill-something sort of situation.
Patrick rothfuss: Kerrek is reaching out, kind of like, don't-don't-don't. There's a lot of things in the world that shouldn't have your blood.
Laura: Oh. Well, shit. (laughs)
Patrick rothfuss: Especially something clever enough to lay a trap like that. Might be clever enough to trick a bunch of people into handing over blood.
Travis: How far is it to the door?
Matt: From the pillar? About 15 feet.
Travis: I walk over to the door.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm gonna go with Grog. Yeah.
Laura: Punch it!
Travis: Can I-- would you mind--
Taliesin: You guys work on your thing. I'm gonna work on another thing. I'm gonna go over to those other shelves, I'm gonna see what the fuck is up there.
Marisha: I go with Percy. I do that. Inspecting the shelves.
Taliesin: I'm gonna quick-jog to the other shelves and take a look at those books.
Matt: The door begins to shift. There's a slight shaking sensation as the bowl itself begins to glow, and the basilisk's blood begins to sizzle and burn away, almost like it's being pushed to the outer edges of the bowl with just the singular drops from your blood resting in the center. The room begins to shake a bit, and you watch as dust that had been alongside the ceiling begins to slightly cascade from above you. The metallic door lifts up and reveals the other side.
Marisha: Completely? It's open?
Matt: It's open. You do take a point of damage from the blood that you lost.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So you guys are just starting to push out of the room. At which point, you begin to hear laughter.
Taliesin: Oh, fuck.
Matt: Cackling, multiple-sources laughter. (cackling) And you watch as, down in the distance of each side of the hallway from where you came and where you're going, these little sources of light suddenly spark up and begin drifting towards you.
Laura: Pike immediately casts--
Liam: Beacon of Hope?
Laura: No, no, no, not that. She casts the other thing. Shouldn't she? It's undead. Holy Aura on all of us.
Matt: Okay. What does that do?
Laura: I wrote it all down. Hold on, hold on. It is within a 30-foot radius where everybody is. It sheds a five-foot radius of light on everyone. Everybody gets advantage on saving throws. Enemies who are attacking have disadvantage on everyone. Fiends and undead who do melee attacks have to make a constitution save or be blinded.
Matt: Okay. All right, so yeah, that's on yourself, and it creates a 30-foot radius around you. As you guys all see these sources of light hovering towards you, the cackling getting louder and louder from a source just out of view, Pike grabs her holy symbol and slams her hand down onto the stonework in the center by where the pillar is. As it hits, there's a (explosion) sound as the vibrations or impact shift through the ground, and you feel the ground itself grow warm with radiant energy as a giant circle of ancient radiant runes begin to connect and intersect, and within that circle you all kind of rush in, and as you do, you feel the warmth of that protection come over you. As you all gather, with your weapons at the ready, you see now the sources of light, as roughly four floating flame-wreathed skulls come rocketing in, two from each side of the hallway, cackling along the way. And we're gonna take a break. (yelling)
Travis: Flaming skulls?
Matt: Flaming skulls.
Marisha: Flame-wreathed skulls.
Matt: Just floating towards you. You get the sense that one of these may have, at one point, been contained within a bag.
Liam: Guys, it's fine, my ten-year-old son destroyed one of these recently. We're gonna be fine.
Taliesin: Firecracker outside.
Matt: All right, so. We'll be back here in a few minutes. We're going to go ahead and take a restroom break, and we'll see where this next chapter is.
Laura: Oh my god. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone, to Critical Role. We're back from break. The party just found themselves immediately surrounded by large, floating, flaming skulls in the center of this hallway, going towards the necromancer's sanctum. I need you all to roll initiative, please.
Liam: (sings) Get it on.
Marisha: (laughing) It's the Kiss army.
Matt: While they're rolling their initiatives, we had a winner in the chatroom for a Wyrmwood Zebrawood complete dice tower system right here, as well as this awesome leather thing from Wyrmwood, here, they have this nice leather band as well. The winner is heartman_, by the way, congratulations, heartman_.
Marisha: I think you have Zebrawood.
Taliesin: Zebrawood is, I believe, the one that I have.
Matt: Delightful. So congratulations, we'll get this to you ASAP. All righty. So. Getting initiative scores here from people. 25 to 20.
Marisha: Oh wait, we're rolling initiative.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Jesus.
Marisha: Fuck me. That's cocked. Natural 20.
Matt: All right, so.
Marisha: Why can't I have these when it really makes sense?
Travis: 25 to 20.
Marisha: 22 total.
Liam: 21.
Taliesin: 22 for Scanlan.
Matt: Whoa! Scanlan's always in the rear.
Taliesin: He rolled a natural 20.
Marisha: Me and Scanlan, nat-20 brothers! For Scanlan who's not here.
Matt: That's awesome. Vax and Scanlan at the top. All right. 20 to 15.
Laura: 16 for Vex.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: Percy, Vex. 15 to ten?
Travis: Me. 14.
Matt: All righty.
Patrick rothfuss: Just out of curiosity, do you allow people to delay their action to act later in the turn?
Matt: You can hold an action, meaning you still take your turn, you still move, but you can hold your action for a trigger. So like, I will hold my action to attack if something comes in range. Or I can hold my action to cast a spell when a certain creature does something. But you still take your turn, you don't move the turn order.
Travis: What'd Pike roll?
Laura: Pike rolled a nine.
Matt: Pike at the end. Kerrek, what'd you get?
Patrick rothfuss: A one.
Matt: Oh, Kerr.
Liam: Number one.
Marisha: Pike?
Laura: Nine.
Marisha: Who rolled one?
Laura: Kerr.
Matt: It's okay. You and Kima are down there. All right, so.
Patrick rothfuss: The term is anchor-man.
Laura: I like it.
Matt: All righty. So, at the top of the round, as these skulls are beginning to find their way in towards the cavern towards you, as you've all circled around Pike in the center of this chamber here, I would like Scanlan and Vax to go first.
Liam: All right. After you, Scanman.
Taliesin: I can turn myself invisible? It's a level three spell?
Matt: You can.
Taliesin: I'm gonna turn invisible and back up against the northern wall in the corner and see if the skulls notice.
Matt: Okay. So Scanlan is gonna go invisible and back up here.
Marisha: It's a 2nd-level spell.
Matt: All righty. 2nd level.
Taliesin: And I'm going to hold my action until I find out whether or not-- oh, invisible is my action.
Matt: Casting the spell is your action.
Taliesin: All right. I'm gonna back up, and yeah.
Matt: Okay. So you back up against the wall there. Okay. So that's your turn. Vax.
Liam: Can you point to where I am in that scrum? I can't tell. I'm going to move to the opposite wall that Scanlan just went to.
Matt: So over here?
Liam: Yeah, and I'll fly ten feet-- I'm winged, so I'll be ten feet in the air as well.
Matt: Okay. I'll put you up on here.
Liam: And I'm gonna huck a pair of daggers at-- I hope this is the right way-- the one on this side that's closest to you.
Matt: Right here. Okay, go for it.
Liam: That's shit. And then the second one--
Laura: Well, don't write it off, it was 15, that first one.
Liam: That's true, it's a 15 and then a 23.
Matt: Both hit.
Liam: Hey! All right, so first one is with Whisper. That is four plus eight is 12, plus psychic damage, which is 19 for the first hit. And from the venom dagger that I'm throwing next, that is four plus six is ten. Ten total.
Matt: So 19 points of damage total. Awesome. That end your turn?
Liam: That's the end of my turn.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Oh dear god, I knew you were gonna say that. Hang on, hang on, I'm looking up the parameters of the spell. Let me see. L-M-N-O--
Travis: What happened when he hit 'em with those daggers?
Matt: As both these daggers slam into the skull, you watch as the flames themselves that are kind of wreathing around them, the skull just ducks out of the way, but the blade still catches and scrapes across the side of the bone, and it has to right itself, but then it gets right back into the place it was. It's taking damage, and you can see portions of the bone are starting to crack and break, but it's still, you know, still holding itself aloft.
Laura: Did its little jawbone go (chattering teeth)?
Matt: Not yet. It's not its turn yet. It's an action to chatter. I'll get you, He-Man! No.
Liam: You boob!
Matt: (sings) Oh my god do I pray. Anyway. Sorry. Oh, internet. Never change.
Marisha: (sings) For a revolution.
Matt: So what are you doing for your action, Keyleth?
Marisha: Huh?
Taliesin: She's inspiring.
Marisha: I got inspired?
Matt: No. What are you doing on your turn.
Travis: Did you stick cotton in your ears during the break?
Marisha: Sorry, I got distracted. Okay.
Matt: Next to Allura, and you have Kerrek to your other side.
Marisha: Which direction were we heading?
Matt: You were heading this direction. The giant gate was here, and it lifted up, and then all the skulls swarmed in from that side.
Marisha: There's only two right now?
Matt: There's four, there's two on this side, two on this side.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to cast Moonbeam on... hm. Let me do this one. That guy. That make sense? So it's 120 foot, it's a concentration spell up to a minute, and it's a five-foot radius, 40-foot-high cylinder. It causes searing pain and takes 2d10 radiant damage after a constitution saving throw.
Matt: Okay, so constitution saving throw on each of these guys here?
Marisha: It's a five-foot radius.
Matt: Okay, so you can hit one-- oh, if you hit there, you can hit 'em both.
Marisha: Can I? Then I do that.
Matt: All righty. And they-- that is a 16.
Marisha: Fail.
Matt: And a 13. So no, they fail 'em both. (cheering)
Marisha: Oh, that's good. Above average. Six plus seven is 13 points of damage.
Matt: 13 points of damage to both of them.
Marisha: You know, just a little bit of radiant damage.
Matt: So as the beam bursts out from the sky, you see the white radiant nature energy burst around them, and the flames seem to subside for a moment as the one that's already been damaged by Vax almost stumbles to the floor, then picks itself back up, its flame flickering more so than the allies around you. That end your turn, Keyleth? You gonna stay where you are or you gonna move?
Marisha: I'm on the-- are we all on the carpet?
Matt: No, no one's been on the carpet.
Marisha: We never did that. Then I will back away towards me and towards the southeast corner.
Matt: Over here? Okay.
Marisha: Yeah. Southeast to you.
Matt: More south?
Marisha: No, no, that's right, that's right. That's good.
Matt: That ends your turn? All right. It is now the flame skulls' turn. So. All four of these skulls, you watch as the flames swirl around the head, pour into the skull itself, and for a second, the flame almost goes dark, as all of a sudden the eyes burst into angry fire, the mouth grows extremely bright, and a single red beam streaks forth from the jaw to the center of the room. Four of these beams in different directions here, followed by four simultaneous familiar explosions as four separate Fireballs rock the room.
Liam: Four. Separate. Fireballs.
Travis: Fuck.
Laura: We're gonna die just from fucking--
Liam: Wow, look at that. Everybody.
Matt: Yeah, you guys clustered right there.
Laura: Well, we didn't get a chance to move!
Marisha: This is the room!
Matt: Well no, you guys said you all were gonna back in around Pike, and you haven't had your turn yet.
Marisha: It's also still the room.
Matt: I know. I know. This happens, guys. Sorry.
Travis: Like, where else were we gonna go? It's a huge explosion.
Matt: Not knowing or seeing where Sam went, they all focus here, which will affect everybody. So I need everybody to make four dexterity saving throws. Now, mind you--
Marisha: Everyone except Scanlan? Or still Scanlan?
Matt: Everyone except for Scanlan.
Laura: And everybody's got advantage on every single one of those rolls.
Marisha: Wait, dex throws?
Matt: All saving throws you have advantage on.
Taliesin: Four saving throws with advantage.
Liam: You crazy motherfucker.
Travis: God damn it, that's the same number.
Matt: You're trying to beat a 13.
Marisha: How many do we-- oh, we have to roll it each time?
Matt: Yeah, for each one.
Marisha: Natural 20 on my second. We're trying to beat a 13?
Matt: Trying to beat a 13.
Marisha: I cleared all of them.
Taliesin: Cleared all of them.
Liam: Cleared all of them. Evasion.
Laura: Wait, I gotta do them for Pike.
Marisha: No rolls for Scanlan. Okay.
Laura: Fuck. (sighs) Do I have to roll for Trinket, too? Oh, god.
Matt: Everyone was there.
Laura: Okay, Pike saves two and fails two. Vex saves all.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: God.
Travis: These little disembodied bastards are tough.
Laura: Trinket only saves against one.
Travis: What are these called?
Patrick rothfuss: Even with advantage?
Laura: Even with advantage.
Taliesin: It's her magic power.
Laura: Trinket just constantly-- I didn't add anything. Oh, well, he had a plus two.
Matt: Grog.
Travis: I failed the first two, succeeded on the second two. Ten, ten, 21, 21.
Matt: Okay. So you take 76 points of fire damage. Percy.
Taliesin: Save, save, save, save.
Matt: Okay. So you take-- Grog, I said 78, right?
Travis: You said 72.
Matt: Sorry, 72. That is 48 points of fire damage to you, Percy.
Marisha: You saved from all of 'em? Same. 17, natural 20, 14, 18.
Taliesin: 42 points of damage? Wait, how much?
Matt: Sorry, this is a lot of Fireballs and a lot of rolls right now. So for Percival, altogether, if you made all the saves, it would be-- shit. Okay.
Taliesin: Some mild asbestos in the coat.
Marisha: Made of polyester.
Matt: We'll say, for the sake of this and the ease of the damage here, you take 56 points of fire damage, Percy.
Taliesin: How much, sorry?
Matt: 56 points of fire damage.
Marisha: If you saved against all of them, 56?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Should I have taken more?
Matt: You technically would've taken-- no, you took 70.
Travis: I failed two.
Matt: That's right, you failed two. So that would be...
Marisha: That's with a nat 20?
Matt: You take 88.
Laura: Oh my lord.
Marisha: With a nat 20, you still take half damage?
Matt: Yeah. So how many did you get, Keyleth?
Marisha: I saved all of them, so I'm at 50 hit points.
Matt: Okay. Kerrek, how many did you save?
Patrick rothfuss: I did, I made all of them, thanks to the advantage.
Liam: Nice, Kerrek.
Matt: So you take 56 points of fire damage.
Liam: I saved all of them with Evasion. That's zero, yeah?
Matt: Yeah, so you take zero.
Liam: Yeah, flat against the ground.
Matt: You just duck out of the way. Vex?
Laura: I saved against all of them.
Matt: 56 points of fire damage.
Laura: So I'm at 57 hit points now.
Matt: Okay. Pike failed two?
Laura: She failed two of them, yeah, so 88.
Matt: 88, but half that, because she has fire resistance, so 44.
Laura: Oh, thank god. Okay. That's good, that's good. And then Trinket only got one, so he's in my necklace. Already.
Liam: Luckily, luckily.
Matt: You can bring him out and heal him in a minute, if you want to. That brings Allura, through her Barrier and extra hit points, that brings her to-- okay, there we go. And Kima also failed two, so she took... All righty.
Patrick rothfuss: If I'm still hugging Grog, can I use him as partial cover? (laughter)
Matt: Going forward, you can, yes. From the curling flames of the arcane blasts, unfortunately, not that much cover from that. However, they all then go ahead and scoot back towards the wall. The holy radius itself is starting to affect them, so this one is starting to back up in this direction, and these two are going to go ahead and this one's going to curl around the fallen stonework and land there. That is going to end their turn.
Travis: We're in a fucking kill box.
Taliesin: It's a box of kill.
Matt: Now that brings us to Percival's turn.
Taliesin: I'm irritated. So which was the one that you were shooting at?
Marisha: There's one that's almost dead. What's the one that's almost dead?
Liam: Yeah, the one that Matt just touched.
Taliesin: I'm gonna start with him, and I'm going to, just to be a dick, I'm going to pull some deadeye and a sharpshooter on this one.
Liam: Get out of the box!
Taliesin: So I'm going to start with him, taking a shot with Animus.
Laura: Animus?
Taliesin: With the Animus gun, which is, with the sharpshooter on, is 26 to hit.
Matt: Yeah, that hits, so roll damage for that.
Taliesin: That's-- sorry, I'm a little out of it. What do I need? I need one of these. Oh, I'll use this one, it's prettier. Just counting the dice. That's nice! That's 17, 27 points of damage, plus two points of psychic damage.
Matt: Okay. As you take your first shot, the one skull's just trying to duck around the partially crumbled wall, you catch it right before it goes behind cover, and as your bullet hits from the side, the skull just explodes and shatters into a burst of flame and broken bone, expelled and extinguished on the battlefield.
Marisha: Fucking dick.
Taliesin: Next shot. (laughs)
Marisha: Do you get a grit point? You get a grit point back.
Taliesin: I killed it, so grit point back. Actually, and I'm going to spend another grit point for the same shot. So yes. That's--
Travis: These are not living creatures, though, right?
Matt: They are not.
Taliesin: I'm gonna just switch to the one-- yeah, just gonna switch so that we're not flanked by the--
Travis: Flaming jungle mob?
Taliesin: Same sharpshooter, same thing. Same attack. 26.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: That's not as good, but it's okay. 22 points of damage, plus six points of psychic damage.
Matt: Okay. All righty. So this shot impacts, and it sends it slamming into the wall, and it rights itself back in its position, but you can see noticeable cracks across the bone cranium of it, and little bits of fire are poking through areas where it's starting to come apart, but it's still keeping itself together at the moment.
Taliesin: I'm going to take another shot at it. Sharpshooter, but not with the deadeye. Pew-pew. Not as good a shot. 16?
Matt: 16 still hits.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Marisha: Kill it! Kill it!
Taliesin: That's 20 points of damage, with four points of psychic damage.
Matt: That does it. Another blast echoes through as the gunshot goes off. You watch as the secondary light source from that side of the hallway just is immediately extinguished. That hallway goes dark once more, the two glowing lights untouched on the area you came from still standing.
Taliesin: I do a quick reload, and I run up the wall to-- yeah, that way, but to an angle? Yeah, I'm gonna perch up there.
Marisha: Grit point back.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, I get the grit point back. Thank you.
Matt: I like how Keyleth is becoming your paper clip for this battle.
Marisha: Did you know?
Taliesin: I'm trying to write.
Patrick rothfuss: Sorry, I meant to mention this before. And this might not be relevant because everyone has just made eight saving throws or rolled eight saving throw dice. Everyone close to me, because of my Aura of Divinity, gets a plus three because of my charisma bonus.
Matt: That's true.
Patrick rothfuss: I would not bring it up after the fact if that was not just such an ungodly buttload of damage.
Travis: Doesn't affect my rolls.
Matt: That would affect your rolls. You would get plus three to any--
Travis: Still didn't make it, though.
Matt: So it didn't help Grog. Pike is the only one that's near you that would've gotten the benefit.
Laura: That would've gotten Pike up to one of-- she would've failed one of them.
Matt: Okay. So take 22 points of fire damage off-- or no, it would be half that. 11 points. Take 11 points off.
Liam: That's for saves, not on attacks, right?
Matt: Correct, just saves.
Laura: So add 11 points back.
Marisha: Yeah, I saved all mine. You saved all yours.
Patrick rothfuss: But didn't Grog roll tens, and he needs a 13?
Matt: So what'd you roll as your final rolls?
Travis: Ten, ten, 21, 21.
Matt: So that would've made 13 roll. So yeah, that would've.
Laura: You would've saved on everything.
Travis: Hey! So if you saved on all of them, how many points of damage would you take?
Matt: All of them would have been 56.
Travis: Got it, 56.
Laura: Trinket still would've failed three. Just to put that out there, he rolled so poorly.
Matt: Even with the plus three?
Laura: Even with the plus three, Trinket would not have gotten up to 13 on three of those.
Travis: Thank you, Kerr!
Taliesin: You know, I've been led to believe that bears had more affinity with dealing with forest fires in general. I feel it's just-- this is definitely a problem.
Liam: Somewhere, Sam is laughing.
Laura: Oh, poor Trinket. He's just--
Liam: He's good at cuddles.
Taliesin: Do you have a bald bear?
Marisha: With a little singed hair?
Matt: All right, Percy, that ends your turn?
Travis: Percy, does that end your turn?
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh, I'm up. Okay. I'm going to shoot them. I'm going to shoot the one closer to you.
Matt: Okay, there you go.
Laura: That definitely hits.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 16 damage plus three lightning damage.
Matt: Okay, got it.
Laura: And then, fuck me, I Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. He has been Hunter's Marked.
Laura: I attack him again. Natural 20! (cheering)
Matt: Well, there you go.
Taliesin: I was gonna say, somehow a skull is giving you shade, and now he's not.
Laura: 20 plus eight lightning damage plus eight Hunter's Mark. 'Cause you double all your dice, right?
Matt: You double the dice, yeah. So that's 20 plus eight plus another eight.
Laura: So 28 plus eight lightning damage.
Matt: Yeah. That secondary arrow happens to just hit right on the suture at the side of the skull, and as it hits, the arrow cuts through and causes the skull to crack in half, and you hear this kind of shriek, and the laughter fades, as it pulls back and the flame just flickers out, and the two pieces of bone just clatter to the ground and break across the stone.
Laura: I move away from him into the-- oh, on the opposite side of Percy.
Matt: Okay, so this way? 30, you can get about there. All right. That ends your turn, Vex. Grog, you're up.
Travis: (yells) I run at the last remaining skull.
Liam: Hey you guys!
Travis: In a rage.
Matt: You get right up to it.
Travis: I'd like to play teeball, please.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Travis: With this new Dwarven Thrower. Should've tried throwing it, but too late for that. With reckless, great weapon master, please.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: 33 minus five is 28?
Matt: That hits. You don't add the extra d8, since you only get that when you throw it.
Travis: Right. Shit, wait. Yeah. 26.
Matt: 26 damage.
Travis: No, I'm sorry, the second hit was 26 to hit.
Matt: Oh, I see. What was the damage on the first one?
Travis: I didn't do it yet.
Matt: Oh, okay.
Travis: Now I've done it. What the fuck is that?
Matt: Welcome to d8s, motherfucker.
Travis: I know. That's a six, plus-- I'm raging, so 20 points of damage.
Matt: Okay. You slam across the side of the skull. It slams against the side of the wall where you hit it, and as it rights itself, you go with your second attack, which does hit. Roll damage for that one.
Marisha: What the fuck is that? It's a number.
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19 hits. Or 19 damage, sorry. Whack! You slam it again. This time it falls to the ground and picks itself back up, the flames brightening once again, the anger as its jaw clacks open, coming towards your face.
Marisha: It's still alive? Kill it!
Travis: I don't have a third attack.
Matt: Yeah, he's not frenzied.
Travis: With a bonus action, can I attempt to use my Boots of Feral Leaping and leap... (laughter)
Travis: To the wall towards you. (yelps)
Taliesin: He senses the all-powerful deity to the outside of it and just leaps towards Matt's face.
Travis: Damn you, watcher of all things!
Matt: I'll just grab your mini and slam it into the ground. No saves.
Travis: Flatline. Not like this.
Matt: Not like this.
Travis: I just want to leap towards the wall that way so I'm not in the same line.
Matt: Okay, so go ahead and make your athletics check. Since you are raging, you have advantage on it.
Travis: Oh, cool. I don't need it, it's 26.
Matt: Okay, so you-- there you go.
Travis: I expected you to die!
Matt: All right, this is Allura's turn. She sees, currently at the moment, that the heavily damaged flame skull, and there's nothing else in the immediate vicinity. She glances past, steps over past Kerrek, and says, "Shall you, or shall I?"
Patrick rothfuss: Be my guest.
Matt: "You're too kind." And with one hand on your shoulder and her staff in the other, she thrusts it forward, and you watch as four what looks like small beads of arcane energy go rocketing out from the top of the staff, and arcing around each other, as they swell with power and force. All slam multiple times into the side, the Magic Missiles dealing five, ten, 15-- four fours in a row-- 20. Four fours in a row. And that's not quite enough to finish it.
Laura: How is this ghost so strong?
Matt: It's taken 59 points of damage. You watch as--
Travis: I forgot to add ten.
Matt: To each roll? Well.
Travis: I mean, you can add 20.
Matt: So we'll say, given that circumstance.
Travis: Sorry.
Matt: It's okay. Given the fact that it literally had one hit point left--
Travis: She got it!
Matt: It had one hit point left! So as the four missiles slam into the side of the skull, the final one hits, and its jaw gets blown off as the rest of the skull just turns to ash against the stonework and slowly rests across the side, the combat coming to an end in that moment.
Laura: Good times, guys!
Taliesin: Every week. Every week for two years. We've been playing this game for two years.
Liam: It's gonna be amazing when we're level one again, we'll go, I hit it for three points! (cheering)
Travis: We came from that way, right?
Matt: You came from this way, yes.
Travis: Can I run that way?
Matt: This way? Yeah.
Liam: This is a death trap, Grog, what are you doing?
Marisha: Why are you running backwards?
Travis: We came from the other way.
Matt: You went this way.
Travis: I run the other way.
Matt: Okay, so Grog just goes bolting through, past all of you guys, into the currently unexplored--
Liam: I start flying with him. Grog, Grog, Grog, we don't know if everything has been fucked up, will you just wait a second?
Laura: Check for traps, check for traps!
Travis: (braking noises)
Taliesin: At the edge of the map?
Liam: Wow. You're learning.
Matt: You just caught him as he moved past the partially collapsed part of the wall where the one skull was trying to hide.
Marisha: Pike. Do we have maybe like a group heal, 'cause I'm half hit points after flaming Night Riders.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I'm gonna check for traps past where the gate was. 20 or 30 feet.
Laura: Some sort of healing thing.
Travis: How many of those did you fail?
Marisha: I passed all of them, one with a nat 20.
Travis: Oh. You're at half your hit points?
Marisha: Look, man, we can't all be Grog the barbarian.
Laura: Do we wanna-- okay, if we all keep charging in, that spell that we just did lasts for a minute. Thought Raishan was around. She was not. So, we've got less than a minute left on that level eight there.
Marisha: That gives us advantage on all saving throws?
Matt: Which, actually, now that I think about it, I need you to roll four concentration checks on that one for Pike. So four constitution saving throws.
Laura: You know what, they did a good job of keeping us from all dying just then, though.
Liam: Yes, they did, yes, that was not wasted advantage. Here we go.
Laura: Natural 20, 18, 19, 11. 11.
Patrick rothfuss: Actually, that 11 had plus three.
Matt: Yeah. Okay, so she maintains concentration, but you have roughly 50 seconds, 45 seconds.
Liam: Let's go right now, right now.
Laura: We're not gonna be able to get to her in a minute, y'all.
Liam: Is there anything ahead of me as I look with my 19?
Matt: Okay, so as they're having this conversation, you push past, you don't notice anything trapped, but about 30 feet from where the iron door was, as you're scoping, the floor just turns to darkness, and as you peek over, you see now a set of stairs are descending.
Liam: But no traps?
Matt: No traps.
Liam: Do we want to keep moving, or do we want to pause?
Laura: If we take a rest, we can rest up and heal.
Patrick rothfuss: I would like to have a short rest right now so we can top off.
Liam: Okay. Let the spell go, then. Hit dice.
Laura: Okay, yeah. We use our hit dice, 'cause we all got half of them back.
Marisha: How long, short rest?
Matt: Short rest is about anywhere from 30 minutes to an hour.
Laura: We can scry and see if Raishan totally knows that we're here.
Patrick rothfuss: Unless there's some sort of big healing mojo, but I am really gimped.
Travis: Yeah, let's just use our hit dice, save the big heals.
Marisha: I mean, I could burn a Mass Cure Wounds and heal us.
Travis: We haven't even fought the dragon yet.
Laura: Yeah, that's the thing.
Liam: For all we know, we fucked ourselves with that skull earlier.
Taliesin: So it wouldn't matter. So what's 40 minutes.
Marisha: I don't know, I feel like that was gonna happen.
Taliesin: Yeah, we're good. Let's take a--
Marisha: She's a smart woman. The least that we can assume is that she knows.
Liam: We haven't outsmarted her yet.
Laura: She's probably already bamfed out, y'all.
Taliesin: You can find out really easily.
Laura: Oh. Yeah, while we're resting, I'm gonna detect dragons and see if she's still around.
Matt: Okay. You sense the same three dragon presences in the vicinity.
Laura: Same spot? Oh, all right.
Marisha: That's something.
Liam: (whispers) Tell us all your secrets.
Travis: Nine times a day, playa.
Matt: Don't forget, you guys using your hit dice, you get Scanlan's Song of Rest.
Laura: Okay, so what is that?
Matt: It's an additional d12.
Marisha: Song of Rest is 1d12 healing points.
Taliesin: On top of?
Matt: On top of whatever you healed, you then get an additional d12.
Travis: I got a 12 right there, that's fucking sweet.
Marisha: Plus 12? Plus 1d8 plus? Sorry. Plus 1d12, right? He adds a 1d12.
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: That's overall, not on each dice, yeah. Just overall.
Marisha: Hit dice.
Travis: Do we go back up to Heroes' Feast hit points, or not anymore?
Matt: Yeah. Heroes' Feast is addition to your maximum hit points.
Travis: I heal 55 hit points with this d12 monster.
Laura: Oh my god, I rolled so good.
Travis: I'm just one below where I was.
Matt: Which is what?
Travis: 235.
Matt: 235 for Grog. Percy, where are you at?
Taliesin: I'm still rolling.
Laura: I went all the way back to my maximum, so 115 is what I'm at now.
Matt: Okay. Vax, you didn't take any damage. Kerrek, what are you at?
Patrick rothfuss: Still rolling.
Matt: Okay, no worries.
Taliesin: I'm rolling really shittily.
Marisha: I'm not doing great.
Liam: Scanlan helped out with that?
Matt: He did, yeah.
Liam: (sings) When the Blight has come, and the land is dark, and your health is down to 23 HP.
Travis: Oh, you're doing great! That's great.
Laura: That was good.
Travis: We're missing the high soprano tonal quality.
Liam: Can't do it, can't do it.
Taliesin: Wow, I'm down a lot.
Marisha: I'm gonna burn my last few hit dice.
Taliesin: I'm at 140, I'm not at the top of my peak.
Marisha: I'm at 95.
Matt: 95, got it.
Taliesin: Is it possible-- god, I have instructions on how to run Scanlan, and I'm debating how to best do that.
Laura: Oh, I went up to 117, because I forgot I had the extra 15.
Matt: Heroes' Feast, yeah.
Liam: Is he going to do a bump or a thing?
Marisha: Would he do a bump right now? He probably would, wouldn't he?
Taliesin: I was going to say, according to the instructions I was given--
Marisha: Probably.
Laura: Pike's back at 115.
Taliesin: Well, that's the thing, I want to make sure I can do this in a way so I don't take anything from him later.
Marisha: Is he-- wait, hang on, wait, I feel like he texted. No, he didn't.
Taliesin: He really-- yeah, no, I'm gonna try--
Travis: A number, give him a number.
Marisha: Hang on. How many bumps of suude does he have left?
Matt: One.
Travis: Save it.
Marisha: Would he do it for after Raishan or before?
Travis: After.
Taliesin: Before.
Liam: Before, I think, too.
Taliesin: Yeah, I was given specific instructions.
Marisha: I think he would do it before, too.
Taliesin: He's gonna push a little forward, up to the stairs, get away from the rest of the group.
Matt: That'll be going up to where Vax is.
Taliesin: Oh, then he's going to push a little far back and just--
Matt: Okay, so Scanlan backs away.
Laura: Wait, Scanlan gave us an extra nine hit points?
Matt: Extra d12.
Taliesin: Which is nine hit points.
Laura: Nine. I'm higher than 117, then I'm one-whatever. 126.
Marisha: So he has one hit of suude left?
Taliesin: Yeah, he's gonna get himself quietly away. I think he's had it packed already, so there's not gonna be a big, elaborate-- he's just gonna--
Marisha: Holy shit, this feels so weird.
Matt: To by-proxy do this? Yeah. Okay.
Marisha: It feels so dirty.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: I'm not gonna sully it with my good dice, I'm gonna use one of my crappy dice.
Marisha: He gave us instructions.
Taliesin: This is, I guess, the most stoner die I have for this. So okay, constitution saving throw?
Marisha: Come on. Just straight constitution?
Taliesin: 19. Oh, saving throw. 19.
Matt: 19, all right, great. As Scanlan takes the flute and takes in the fumes of the char-burned suude, the familiar burn and chemical flavor fills his lungs, and as he exhales, this fine brown smoke emits from his lungs, and his vision clarifies suddenly, and he feels this elevated sense of energy and power in his mind. For the next hour, Scanlan has one sorcery point that he can spend as the sorcerer metamagic class, and has access to the extended spell Metamagic ability.
Liam: Do you know what that means? I kind of do.
Marisha: Okay, unextended spell Metamagic? So what does that buy us?
Matt: So he has one point, period, that he can ever spend for the next hour.
Marisha: He has one sorcery point.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: Wait, how do you spell sorcery? How do you spell sorcery?
Matt: And basically, he can spend it to double the duration of a spell as he casts it.
Marisha: He can double--
Liam: That's the only thing that's within reach of one sorcery point, right?
Matt: That's-- the suude gives him access to a specific metamagic based on the color of the suude, and he gets a point. The more you use to get more points, the higher the DC gets, and the closer you get to overdosing.
Taliesin: Ah, I love it! This is the worst thing ever!
Marisha: So he could theoretically die by doing this.
Liam: Hey, man, it's just another version of Craven Edge.
Taliesin: No, it's great, yeah. This is weirdly--
Travis: Yeah, except I had it all under control.
Laura: Sure.
Marisha: So wait, he can double the length of one spell.
Matt: Yeah, a single spell that has a duration, he can use that sorcery point to double the duration of that spell.
Marisha: The duration of one spell.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: And it could be-- wait, question.
Matt: So if it's one minute concentration, it can be two minutes concentration.
Marisha: What if it's one action? Could it be two actions? He could do it back to back?
Matt: No. The duration, not the casting time. Those are different. The duration is once you cast it, how long it lasts before it expires.
Laura: So like a mansion we could have for two days.
Taliesin: Two-day mansion!
Matt: Actually, no, it says specifically as part of the metamagic ability that it has a maximum of 24 hours. So if it already has a 24 hour duration, you cannot.
Laura: Just kidding.
Marisha: So only if it's below 24 hours.
Taliesin: The large print giveth and the small print taketh away. (laughter)
Matt: That's a beautiful quote.
Taliesin: Tom Waits, everybody. Tom Waits, bless him.
Liam: (Tom Waits voice) What's Percy building in there?
Travis: Patrick, how much did you heal, brother?
Patrick rothfuss: I'm up to 94.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: I dig this. We got this.
Marisha: One sorcery, double, okay. All right, all right. Holy shit.
Liam: I found nothing in the further area, right?
Matt: No traps. You came to the edge of the stairs that lead down for about 20 or so feet, and then progress an even path, and then disappear below what your visual is able to see from above.
Marisha: Keyleth is going to just, before this short rest, is going to give one Cure Wounds to herself.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Marisha: Just to top me off.
Liam: Kerr, is your hammer still aglow?
Patrick rothfuss: If you want light, I can do light.
Liam: I wanna know if it's aglow right now. Did you have a chance to pop it out?
Patrick rothfuss: It probably is unless somebody told me to turn it off.
Liam: Okay. So I figured it was probably still on.
Matt: Yeah, it's still currently being the central source of light in this room.
Liam: How far down the stairs do I see from where I am?
Matt: From where you are, you can see all the way to the bottom of the 20 feet of stairs, but the roof of the tunnel cuts off the rest of the path, so you have to go out further to look out where it goes.
Marisha: Keyleth is at 116 hit points.
Matt: Cool, got it.
Liam: Put that out, please, Kerr?
Patrick rothfuss: Okay, I snuff it.
Liam: I'm gonna go stealth, and I'm gonna go down to the bottom of the steps. And I've already checked for traps-- oh no, I didn't, up to this point, so I'm gonna check for traps as I go down the steps.
Matt: Okay, stealth first.
Liam: Which is 25. Am I still under Pass Without a Trace?
Matt: No, because she cast--
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25, okay. And then make an investigation check.
Liam: Natural 20 for that.
Matt: You make your way down the stairs into the next bit of the hallway. No traps. The stonework here now is getting a little more refined the further you go, and as you look out the hallway, you have another 25, 30 feet of this 20-foot-wide, 20-foot-tall hallway before it seems to just end and drop off. And you can see what looks to be the gap in another wall about 25 feet across from that.
Liam: Okay. So hallway goes a ways, then there's nothing, and then 20 feet past that--
Matt: And then just a wall on the other side.
Liam: So a gap and then a wall?
Matt: Yeah, looks like it goes down or up. You'd have to get closer to get more detail.
Taliesin: I keep meaning to build something for something like this. I just haven't had the time.
Laura: Oh, you know what, darling, don't worry. You can use the carpet.
Liam: On the earring  team, there's a passage down ahead of me. There's no traps, I don't think.
Laura: So let's walk up there.
Liam: Yeah, catch up with me and then pause, and then either I or my sister and I will move ahead?
Taliesin: And just let us know which direction you think we should head, Vex.
Laura: Of course.
Liam: Did you mean Vax or did you mean Vex? Just want to be really sure. Because people make mistakes a lot.
Laura: They do, they really do.
Taliesin: I do, I know I do. That wasn't a mistake, though.
Liam: Very similar.
Taliesin: Love you madly.
Liam: All right. I know you're talking to Vax.
Taliesin: That was for Vex. Vax. Which one?
Matt: Trinket can use his own hit dice to heal, if you wanted to.
Laura: Okay, then he healed himself while we were rested, but he's in the necklace so that we can fly if we have to.
Matt: That's fine. Okay, so yeah, you can go ahead and heal him up. Vax, you move ahead?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, as they start catching up with you, you hear them stepping down the stairs behind you, you come up to the edge, and now what you see is a 25-foot circular almost cylinder. There is a ceiling maybe about five feet above you, and nothing there, but what you do see is about a three-foot-wide spiral staircase that just leads down and down and down. And you cannot see where it ends at the bottom.
Liam: Is it a staircase where I'm forced to walk, or is it stairs on the walls and empty space down the center of it?
Matt: Empty space down the center of it, and it's just a two-and-a-half- or three-foot-wide staircase that goes along the edge, and that's all you have to walk on.
Liam: Ah. I'm going to float out above it and look for traps down the cylinder.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Why don't you tie the endless rope to yourself so we can pull you up--
Liam: I've got wings.
Laura: But they're only out for an hour, dear.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18, okay. As you slowly drift down, keeping your wings, you hover further down, maybe incrementally ten feet at a time, looking around, looking at the stairs. You don't notice anything trapped. It all seems pretty standard. The stones are old, they're a little smooth at the edges, what were once kind of very, very rigid and square protrusions from the stone seemingly have a little rubbed off.
Liam: At or near the bottom, doorway, passage?
Matt: As you get closer to the bottom, and as you get about roughly 100 feet down before you actually reach the bottom, but you begin to see below you, there are, right in the center of the spiral downward, a cluster of four-foot-long kind of deep brown or maroon-colored iron spikes that are all just jutting upward in slightly off-kilter directions, and there is a very, very heavy pile of splintered bones and long-mummified dead corpses that are currently just piled up at the base of these spikes, some still impaled, many of which have slowly rotted and fallen apart.
Liam: Over the earring, I didn't see any traps going down, but there's some bloody spikes down here and some dead things, so Vex, dear, could you load everyone onto the carpet and get on your broom and go down and just float down to the center and leave the stairs alone?
Laura: Of course. The carpet can fit everybody.
Matt: The carpet can carry 600 pounds. That's roughly four people, or a Grog. 800 pounds.
Laura: Grog and one person.
Travis: I'm more than 450, so.
Matt: Grog and maybe two people.
Laura: So I can get Scanlan--
Matt: You currently have ten people traveling with you.
Taliesin: So here's an interesting thing. We don't have an immovable bar anymore, we left those both outside. All right, that's fine. Let's--
Laura: What's at the bottom of the stairs? I mean, can we drop people off and go back in?
Liam: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I can come up for Pike, bring her down, we could just take a minute to--
Taliesin: We could shuttle or use a rope.
Laura: Let's shuttle-bus.
Liam: And what around the spikes, is there a safe portion on the floor?
Laura: A safe landing?
Matt: There is a very, very-- kind of where the outer trim is of the stairway, the stonework travels around it, and then underneath the stairway there is a small opening that leads into a further passageway.
Laura: Is it safe to walk into the passageway?
Travis: Pretty sure we should just take the stairs.
Laura: Pretty sure we should just use the brazier and light it.
Taliesin: I will avoid cardio at all costs.
Liam: 22 investigating for traps for that passage down behind the spikes.
Matt: Okay. I mean, just glancing around the archway, it's not a closed doorway, just an archway, and then a dark tunnel beyond that, it does not appear to be trapped.
Liam: All right. Best I can tell, it's okay. I'm not 100% sure, but there's dead people down here, so I just want you guys to float down the middle, let's get this done.
Taliesin: Grog first?
Liam: 'kay.
Travis: I'm game.
Laura: I'm gonna grab Scanlan on the broom. You grab Pike.
Liam: I'm shooting up, yeah.
Laura: Okay, and then we'll take the gnomes and Grog down and then come back up.
Liam: I kinda wanna move as fast as we can.
Matt: Okay, so who's doing what? Okay, you guys just threw a bunch of stuff at me right now.
Liam: I flew back up.
Matt: You flew back up.
Liam: We take the gnomes down.
Laura: Yeah, I've got-- I want Pike on my broom.
Liam: I take my little drug-addled buddy, not that I know that, and I float him down, and I plant the gnomes down together.
Matt: Okay, so you have Scanlan, you have Pike. Okay. You guys enter the center area and begin coasting downward. You notice a faint blue glow above you in the ceiling. As you glance up, you watch as a glyph begins to slowly--
Taliesin: Dispel Magic.
Matt: Dispel Magic from Scanlan right now? Okay, have Scanlan go ahead and roll an ability check.
Taliesin: Ability check? Okay, I will admit, I have no idea what I'm doing.
Matt: For this, 'cause he can't cast as a reaction, and this would technically be your reaction, as it's already been triggered, I wanna have you go ahead and roll an initiative check.
Marisha: Is this a spell attack bonus?
Matt: Huh?
Marisha: What? What ability check?
Matt: This would be a charisma, plus six and plus two. It's plus eight to whatever you roll, but first, I need you to go ahead and roll initiative. Technically you would not be able to do this as it's not really a reaction.
Marisha: His charisma plus his proficiency bonus.
Matt: Not for the ability check on Dispel Magic. 19? That's 17. So yes. Go ahead and roll a d20 and add eight.
Marisha: Big money, no whammies.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: 21, okay. As he streaks upward and releases the spell, you watch as the glyph that was glowing--
Taliesin: (sings) Rock glyph! You don't have to turn on the blue light. Rock glyph! You don't have to give our bodies to the spikes. Love you, Sam. Love you.
Travis: That was good!
Marisha: That was good, get some Police up in here.
Taliesin: Brought it all the way back for you.
Matt: So. You guys manage to continue all the way downward, flying, you place both of the gnomes at the base, safely by the spikes.
Liam: Oh man, I plant him down, I give him a big fat kiss right between the eyes, you fucking beautiful bastard! Whack!
Laura: What was that? What was that? Sam? Scanlan?
Taliesin: I have no idea. It just looked dangerous, and I figured that's better safe than sorry.
Laura: Do you think it's broken now? Can we get other people from--
Taliesin: Sure, they'll be fine.
Liam: I fly back up right away. Keep this train moving.
Travis: On the carpet? I'm ready?
Liam: I bring Kima down.
Laura: Grog and Allura can fit on the carpet, right?
Travis: Just me, I think.
Liam: She's wafer-thin.
Travis: What do you think? Me and Allura, or just me?
Matt: You and one other person could probably get on.
Laura: Okay, then, oh god. Maybe, could you take, when you fly back up--
Taliesin: I'll go with you, 'cause I'm fine. So I have options.
Liam: Is Kima down?
Matt: You go ahead and begin to carry Kima down without an issue, yeah.
Laura: Okay, I go back up and get Percy. We have Kerr and Allura and Keyleth left.
Liam: Allura.
Matt: Okay, so you grab Allura, bring her down below.
Liam: I hope this is all right.
Laura: I grab Percy on the broom and come down.
Travis: Who else is left up top?
Laura: I feel like-- wait, I pause before we go down the stairs, 'cause I'm like, there was this blue light that happened before, and Scanlan made it stop.
Taliesin: Oh no, we saw.
Laura: How do we not let that happen this time?
Taliesin: Did we make it down and nothing happened?
Matt: Most of you made it down. Kerrek has not come down--
Marisha: Who hasn't made it down? Have I made it down?
Matt: Keyleth hasn't made it down yet.
Laura: I thought you already went down on the carpet. No?
Matt: Grog hasn't made it yet. So you've carried everybody but Grog, Kerrek, and Keyleth.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: I mean, whatever the time is needed. Go up, grab Keyleth, bring her down, go up--
Marisha: What's going on with the blue light?
Matt: It doesn't seem to be having an effect right now.
Liam: I just grabbed up Kerrek.
Laura: You can carry Kerrek?
Matt: Kerrek's pretty heavy. I need you to make a strength check.
Liam: (laughs) Best one ever. 21.
Laura: You're so strong! Oh my god! You've been lifting, bro!
Matt: It's a bit of a strain with the weight of his armor and getting up in his years, versus your tiny half-elf frame, but you do manage to bring him down without issue.
Liam: (strained) The Raven Queen sends her regards.
Laura: Grog.
Patrick rothfuss: I'm getting to hug all the boys in this adventure. (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: This is Kerrek's best day ever.
Taliesin: Somebody's got a coupon for a back massage. Welcome to Vox Machina. You seem tense.
Marisha: That's what we pay you in.
Liam: I'm sure we just killed ten minutes doing all that shit.
Laura: Groggy, can you come down?
Travis: Is it just me and Keyleth?
Matt: Yeah, it's just the two of you up there. No, he brought Keyleth down. So it's just you.
Travis: Okay. First, I stand on the carpet. I say, lift!
Matt: The carpet takes you off the ground. You have to kinda get your--
Travis: No, I lay down flat. And I grab the edges of the carpet, and I go, okay! And try to go down.
Matt: Okay. You go into a pseudo-nosedive. It's thrilling and scary at the same moment, and as you're going up, Grog just goes past you.
Travis: Stop, stop, stop!
Matt: And it just barely coasts past the spikes and lets you fine on the side.
Taliesin: It's about the speed of the children's rides at Fantasyland at Disneyland, right?
Matt: Yeah, it's not super fast. Magic carpet can go about as fast as a person, especially this size. The smaller they are, the faster they are. This is a very big one, but not very fast.
Liam: All right. Vax does a barrel roll, heads back down, lands, and let's start looking around again. All right, stealth, traps, still vigilant.
Matt: Indeed.
Liam: For stealth, that's a 28, and investigating for traps, ooh, that's a one, and I'm not gonna use my Luck on it.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: I'm not. Seems clear. We're good. I am badass.
Matt: So, as you guys have reached the bottom of this cylindrical chamber, you follow suit, one by one, which by the way, just so I know going forward, what's the marching order right now?
Liam: Vax in the front.
Patrick rothfuss: I'm by Grog. (laughter)
Travis: Yeah, baby!
Matt: Grog, where are you at?
Travis: I'll be behind the twins.
Marisha: I'll be behind Grog. Kerr, with Grog.
Matt: Percy, where are you at?
Taliesin: I think probably, maybe Scanlan and Pike are in front of me, and then I'm probably hanging back with Kima and Allura, just sort of ready to-- I want to be at a distance.
Laura: And Trinket's--
Matt: Trinket is out now?
Laura: Trinket's still in my necklace. He's healing in the necklace.
Matt: Okay. So, moving forward, following Vax's lead--
Laura: I'm just gonna stay on the broom and just kind of very close to the ground, but not touching the ground.
Matt: Okay. So the hallway's probably 20 feet wide and 15 feet tall, as you push forward. The walls are chiseled rather roughly, and about 30 feet forward ahead of you, you can see it ends at a cross-section of what looks like a very deep ravine, both above and below. There is an underground chasm here that stretches both to the right and left, though you'd have to get to the very edge to kind of see how far it goes. It's about 60 feet across to the other side, and you can see what looks to be another entranceway to another hallway, and there is a taut rope bridge bolted to each side leading across.
Travis: We should just use that.
Laura: Totally.
Marisha: That looks safe.
Liam: Jeez, we just blew so much time on that fucking stairwell.
Marisha: Guys, in Latin, Jehovah starts with an 'i'.
Laura: It's a leap of faith!
Liam: Should've sent you to the Marx brothers.
Taliesin: When he said 'chiseled rather roughly', he meant Brad Pitt.
Laura: How long until your wings stop working?
Liam: I don't know. Ten or 15, I guess?
Laura: Zoinks.
Liam: Zoinks.
Matt: Your wings went out before the battle and you took a long rest, your wings are pretty much done now. 30 minutes to an hour.
Liam: Yeah, I thought we were cutting it close, like it could be five or ten minutes at this point.
Matt: Between riding everyone up and down, I'm letting you know, right now, Mr. Already Flying Everywhere, your wings are about expended.
Liam: All right. Should I stand on the ground?
Matt: That's up to you. Do you want to keep flying until they're gone, or do you want to sit there?
Liam: I'm gonna fly to the other side of the bridge right now.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I'm gonna go with him. On my broom.
Matt: Okay. So. You get about five feet out before the wings go (fsh).
Liam: Over nothing?
Matt: Looking down, you see darkness, and there's a few stalagtites that--
Liam: I throw a dagger at the other side of the chasm, 60 feet, sharpshooter, into the side near the top. Whisper.
Laura: This is why I went on the broom, I was gonna catch you.
Liam: As an attack?
Matt: You're attacking just the wall above, or--
Liam: There's a cliff facing me, right? Yeah, just into the rock wall of the cliff. 20.
Matt: 20, okay. The dagger hits the edge, and you appear right at the edge of the cliff. You're gonna try to reach and grab. Make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: 22.
Matt: Okay, so you grab and get up on the other side.
Laura: Jesus! Small heart attack over here.
Matt: You didn't even really fall for a moment. Vex, you're floating across, and it feels strange, going across. There's no wind, but the broom is acting extremely wobbly, and the way you control it and maneuver around, you feel almost drunk, but you're not. This is not acting properly.
Laura: I'm gonna turn around and go back to the--
Matt: Okay, so you head back?
Laura: That was weird. It doesn't feel right.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to grab on to the bridge, I'm going to test it, I'm going to step to see if it's real. I'm checking it.
Matt: Okay. You take your hands there, holding, and you put your foot out onto the wood, and it's sturdy. It's strong.
Travis: (laughs) You bastard.
Marisha: I go up to the edge of the rope bridge that Percy's now standing on. I lean down and on the dirt I cast Druidcraft. Can I craft some vines to help reinforce the bridge?
Matt: With Druidcraft, you can create some small vines that wrap around it, and it might help in some regard, but not a lot. Druidcraft is a very limited cantrip.
Taliesin: I'm gonna grab one end of the infinite rope, and I'm gonna hand the other end of the infinite rope to someone who's staying. I think that I pose a good chance of getting across this safely. I'm going to make a run for it. Well, not a run.
Travis: Are you literally going to run?
Taliesin: No, I'm going to walk. Gingerly.
Travis: Oh. So you're gonna make a walk for it.
Taliesin: I'm tying the rope-- That may be one of the smartest things you've ever said. I don't actually have a retort for it on any level.
Travis: I don't know why-- what is 'retort'? Okay.
Taliesin: It means if I die, you win. I'm going to tie the infinite rope to myself and hand it off to Grog. Oh god. I'm handing it to Grog. And I'm going to start gingerly stepping out onto the bridge, being very careful, and checking with each step that's it's real, and looking for weird glyphs or signs or anything out of the ordinary.
Laura: Percy? Be careful.
Matt: Make a dexterity check.
Marisha: As this happens, Scanlan sings, hey Percy, you're so fine, you're so fine you blow my mind, hey Percy! Hey Percy! Hey Percy, you're so fine, you're so fine you blow my mind, with your gun! With your gun! And then he gets a point of inspiration.
Matt: All right, so you get your d12 inspiration die.
Travis: Marisha, that was really nice.
Marisha: Thank you. I feel like I had the same witty repartee as Sam Riegel.
Liam: Okay, okay, now just smile and make the smile as big as Manhattan.
Matt: Dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: That's not bad. That's 22.
Matt: That's really good. All right, so as you start stepping out, you feel this shift in the space, and you grab on to the edges of the--
Taliesin: I'm also using my boots, and I'm gluing them to whatever the-- yeah.
Matt: Right. And as you glue the boots there, that's really what solidifies you in place, and you're still there, on the bridge, without a problem.
Taliesin: Are things just getting weird out here?
Matt: It feels weird. You can't quite understand what's transpiring, but it just feels weird.
Laura: Allura. It felt like almost I was drunk as I was flying across that. Do you know--
Matt: "I don't think it's drunk, per se, it's just that you're not used to flying in that direction." And she points out towards the ravine, and you watch as Percy, who's kind of holding onto the ravine, feet solid, his hair is just up.
Liam: Gravity is fucked.
Taliesin: Well, this will be fine. Is gravity flipped?
Matt: As you hear this conversation, it seems that way, yeah.
Taliesin: I'm going to spider-climb. I'm just going to use my spider-climb boots, and I'm going to make my way, with the rope.
Matt: You do so. Make it across the way. The wood shivers a little bit, shifts beneath your feet, being pulled upward from your weight. You guys watch as the bridge that was once taut is now arcing up and following Percy as he moves across, his weight pulling it upward.
Marisha: That's cool.
Laura: So can I try flying out there, knowing the gravity's shifted? Does it feel okay to fly out like that?
Matt: As you fly out and spin yourself underneath-- yes, you do actually manage to fly, essentially barrel roll across, and manage to make it across to your brother without an issue.
Laura: Oh, I didn't want to go all the way across, I just wanted to test it so I could help bring other people across.
Taliesin: We've got now a third rope, we can literally just clip people to the rope, now.
Liam: It was like pole-dancing, but in space? Upside-down?
Taliesin: We can use the rope we just made as a clipped rappel rope, can we? That's a thing that we can do.
Laura: Potentially?
Taliesin: If everybody wants to try and cross, we can actually-- we now have an unencumbered piece that we can use to get people across.
Travis: I'm gonna jump.
Liam: No, no, that's a bad idea, Grog. You are very hefty and the gravity turns upside-down.
Taliesin: There's probably spikes up there.
Laura: Grog, did you see how I barrel-rolled on my broom?
Travis: Yeah, do I twist in the air?
Laura: Yeah, you should just do the same thing on the carpet.
Liam: Wait, what if he took the carpet and hung off the bottom of it on the first side and then as he made his way over, he'd be all right. You know what I mean?
Laura: I don't know.
Matt: Vex, Vax, and Keyleth, as you guys are having this conversation, something catches the corner of your eye, and you watch something just go (tss), just whizz past from the bottom of the ravine to the top.
Liam: We saw that. We saw that.
Matt: You saw something quickly just go by.
Laura: Can I get a better look, can I look and see if I see it again?
Matt: Yeah, the three of you guys make a perception check as you kind of come up to the edge and look.
Liam: 26.
Marisha: 14.
Laura: Is this related to dragons?
Matt: This is not related to dragons.
Laura: Then that is a 21.
Liam: 26.
Matt: All right. So you're seeing little things, just right out of the middle of the light, you can see something shifting above and below you. You guys have a little better view. You still can't quite see-- the length of your Darkvision is too far for you to see what is below you or necessarily what's above--
Marisha: Can I, as a quick reaction, grab the rope bridge?
Matt: Yeah. So you're still off to the side, just holding onto the bridge? Okay. You are beginning to watch what looks to be figures. Humanoid bodies.
Taliesin: Oh, I have a theory.
Matt: Just tumbling past. One of them hits the edge of the bridge and it keeps spinning off as it disappears into the darkness above.
Taliesin: I have a weird theory. I'm going to grab-- what do I have that I can do this with?
Liam: But they look like spirits falling upwards?
Matt: You watch a couple more go by, and they are nearly skeletal bodies falling upward. But, as you watch a couple more go by, they're limp, somewhat, but still moving as they scoot past.
Laura: Let's just get across here, shall we?
Liam: I'm going to use Divine Sense, now. Just to confirm.
Matt: You wait about a minute or so before one comes close enough to hit the sense, but there is an undead energy that passes past, and both you and Kerr have this moment from across the ravine from each other, seeing this.
Patrick rothfuss: Gonna throw up the horns.
Liam: That's me to you, man.
Taliesin: Try and clock them, see if it's the same bodies over and over again. If it's an infinite loop of falling.
Marisha: An infinite loop of falling?
Laura: Okay, so I wanna get a good look at one of them as they go by.
Liam: Oh, it's a gif.
Marisha: Six seconds.
Matt: Three or four more stumble past, and they're getting more and more rapid. And they're different sizes, they do not appear to be the same bodies.
Laura: I pick up Pike and try to barrel roll across.
Matt: Okay. Barrel roll across. As you're making it across, three more come tumbling up, two of them too far away, but one of them does reach out with its arms as it tumbles past you, and swats out to try and grab you. I need you to make an acrobatics check.
Liam: You got this. Oh, you got such a bonus. Come on, girl!
Travis: Such a bonus, huh? Such a bonus. Look at Matt's face. Look at his face.
Taliesin: Oh, fuck no.
Marisha: Oh, come on. No, come on.
Liam: Do they both make that roll?
Matt: She's the one driving the broom. She's having to try and maneuver.
Taliesin: I was about to interject, and I know that I didn't make that fast enough, but at some point I would already like to be moving to interject in this.
Matt: Right, as you're watching them start going across, you get a step out onto the bridge--
Taliesin: I'm not going onto the bridge, I'm pulling out my gun--
Laura: Oh wait, Pike has a thing that she can help people with their--
Travis: War God's Blessing?
Matt: That's an attack roll.
Laura: Damn it!
Matt: War gods don't help you survive, they help you kill shit.
Travis: Do what you're gonna do, Mercer.
Taliesin: I was gonna start skeet-shooting at some point, so.
Matt: Understood, but before we get to that. So the creature grabs you and essentially grapples you in the moment. As that happens, the momentum of pulling you up causes the broom to shift out of whack, and you begin to careen in a slight circle. I need you and Pike to both make strength saving throws.
Patrick rothfuss: How far away is this?
Matt: They're about 30 feet from you.
Marisha: What about from Keyleth?
Matt: About the same, so you guys are on the other side of the ravine.
Laura: She's got a plus four on strength. Nine for me.
Liam: 13 for Pike.
Matt: So. Okay. So Pike's on the broom with you. You get grabbed and yanked off the broom. Pike manages to hold the broom, but currently Pike is not the current driver of it, and so she's clutching a broom that's just floating in the gravity. You watch as both Pike and Vex go from careening off to tumbling upward into the darkness above.
Marisha: Are they both attached to the broom?
Matt: No. Vex is pulled off the broom.
Taliesin: But she's still tethered.
Matt: She's still tethered, yeah.
Marisha: Does Keyleth have an action?
Matt: Right now, the two of you can both make an action.
Taliesin: All right, my first action, I was just pulling to try and skeet-shoot and sharpshoot with Bad News to hit the undead that had grappled her, and I assume I have spend a grit to get him to let go. To shove him off.
Matt: Because of the nature of the rapid movement, you are at a disadvantage on this attack.
Marisha: You still have the inspiration, right?
Taliesin: I still have that d12 inspiration.
Liam: Matt? Watching this, I'm going to pull Whisper out and watch to see my sister falling through the air, and if I see her falling, I'm going to throw the dagger at her.
Matt: Okay. She's falling.
Liam: Down or up?
Matt: Up.
Liam: I'm watching him and I'm watching her, and if she goes-- how far away is she from me?
Matt: Right now, she's about 30 feet out from the ravine, and now tumbling upward, she's about 50 feet from you.
Marisha: 'Cause he's on the other side, correct?
Taliesin: Oh, for fuck's sake, really?
Matt: Misfire?
Taliesin: Misfire.
Marisha: All righty. Keyleth's gonna go. Seeing Percy misfire, Keyleth is going to grab a Grasping Vine on the side of the wall, and she's going to go for that broom. 'Cause both Pike and her are still grabbing onto that broom, yeah?
Liam: And I'm throwing Whisper at Vex. I'm doing it.
Matt: The vine, unfortunately, only has a range of 30 feet.
Marisha: You said she was 30 feet away.
Matt: She's 30 feet out from the center of the ravine and is now 15, 20 feet up in the air.
Marisha: Can she not hit the wall, get a vine off the side of the wall and bring her down?
Matt: The opposite side? Maybe.
Marisha: I've got a 60-foot range to this spell, plus 30 feet from the Grasping Vine, right? Or is it 30 and 30? I thought you were still grabbing onto the--
Laura: I'm tethered to the broom.
Marisha: To the broom, and Pike's still grabbing onto the broom, yeah? I'm going for the broom. Come on, man! (laughter)
Matt: Look, I'm trying to work out-- you guys do a lot of things really fast. I'm trying, I'm working with you, so please bear with me on this.
Marisha: Grasping Vine! What? What?
Liam: You're like a loan officer.
Matt: I wouldn't recommend doing that or I won't give you a chance to even do it. Don't taunt the DM.
Liam: I want to sell you this house, but there's some shit we need to go over.
Matt: So. I'm going to ask you, Keyleth, to go ahead and make just a general dexterity check.
Marisha: Just general dex? What?
Matt: This is how fast you're able to enchant a spell, which requires an incantation and the release of the spell's effect, thus summoning the vine and causing it to lash out. This is just a general, base DC, I need you to go ahead and just roll and add your dexterity modifier.
Laura: You got it, you got it.
Marisha: I love you.
Laura: I love you.
Marisha: That was a natural 19, so that is plus my dex, which is plus two, so 21. Hah!
Laura: Don't hah, don't hah the DM!
Marisha: I mean, (yells, grunts).
Matt: So, as Bad News misfires, you watch as the front of it just, this burst of black smoke bursts outward, and this look of utter horror on Percy's face. Keyleth rushes out, and grabbing the edge of the rope bridge to get enough of a reach out there, you watch as her hair lifts up and part of her body begins to just drift upward, but she holds on and reaches out with the staff, and, using the strength of her force of will, the edge of the stone above the ravine cracks open and suddenly you watch where there is no life, a piercing flash of dark green shoots outward, a vine freshly grown from the edge of the stonework reaches out and grabs, wrapping around the broom itself and holding it taut. You watch as the vine and the entire group shifts upward. You're suddenly pulled, you're still grappled by this undead zombie-like corpse, and Pike is currently clutching onto the broom as hard as she can as you both impact at the end. With your weight and the creature's weight, I now get to see if the--
Laura: Vine holds?
Matt: Well, not the vine. The vine magically holds. It's the chain that attaches you to the broom. Yeah, okay. So that holds. It goes taut, you're held there. The creature's still clutching you right now.
Laura: Are my arms restrained?
Matt: Your arms are held to, yeah. Actually, 'cause you're still held there, I want you to go ahead and make another acrobatics check.
Liam: Holy fuck.
Laura: Acrobatics. That's Pike. Acrobatics. 25.
Matt: 25. So it does not progress into restrained. You're still grappled, it's still holding on to you, but you manage to swivel out of its grasp, as it's trying to pull you in, and it's starting to try and bite into you. As you glance upward, now that you're drifting, dangling roughly 60 feet up, you look up, and you can see what is the top of the ravine, and it is a writhing mass of hundreds and hundreds of undead corpses that are all reaching out for you, their different-boned claws all extended, going (rasping), trying to just pull you towards them into empty air, as you dangle, looking up into that.
Liam: This is fine.
Laura: Oh. My. God.
Marisha: Everything's okay.
Laura: Everything's fine, you guys.
Matt: At which point, the vine pulls the broom, Pike, you, and the creature up towards the edge of the wall. So you're still 30 feet up, but you're slammed into the side of the wall, now, the vine is just holding the broom taut against the edge of the rocks.
Marisha: Sorry!
Laura: No, I love you! You're amazing! Can I just take out-- I just have a dagger, can I pull out my dagger and try to jam it up into the zombie's-- under his chin?
Matt: Go for it. It's going to attempt to bite attack you, by the way. Which it does not do with a two. Just getting your armor, gnawing on the leather.
Laura: Oh, it's all zombie drool! I am really bad at regular attacks. What do I add to this?
Matt: You add your dexterity and your proficiency modifier. So it would be plus ten, I think.
Laura: So 20.
Matt: Okay, yeah, so you jam it with the dagger. Go ahead and roll damage. That's 1d4 plus your dexterity modifier.
Laura: Oh, plus my dexterity. I didn't roll a 20, I rolled--
Matt: It's a d4 plus five, is what you're rolling for damage.
Laura: Eight.
Matt: Okay, so eight damage. You jam the dagger up into its jaw and throat, and it slaps it out of the way. You can see it's damaged, but it's still holding on. The creature's now grabbing onto you and slamming you into the wall best it can.
Laura: What is Pike doing?
Matt: Pike is just holding onto the broom right now. She's going to attempt to-- actually, what she would do in this moment would be Turn Undead. 'Cause that's what clerics do.
Laura: I didn't even see that spell, where's that spell?
Matt: It's not a spell, it's her Channel Divinity ability.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah, it's Channel Divinity, but I couldn't do it from the edge of the pit. It's 30 feet.
Matt: Yeah, you have to be closer from there. Okay, so it has to make a saving throw, which it does not make. So as you look over and this zombie's biting at you and you're trying to jam at it, Pike, who's holding onto the broom, grabs the symbol of Sarenrae from around her neck and looks up and just closes her eyes for a second, and as they flash open again, there's no pupils, just white, bright, vibrant, radiant eyes. This small shockwave bursts off her, and you watch as the zombie goes (gasps) just turns into ash and disintegrates, its body just tumbling in chunks and pieces up into the ravine above you.
Laura: So I would look down at Pike.
Matt: Yes, and then up at where the zombie went. Pike is below you, still holding onto the broom.
Laura: You're amazing! That was amazing! This was a mistake. How do we get down?
Matt: "I don't know. Keyleth?"
Marisha: I'm holding on, man.
Liam: Where's the carpet, where's the carpet, where's the carpet?
Taliesin: The carpet is not what we need.
Matt: A few more corpses start tumbling up.
Taliesin: The rope that is currently tied at the other end of the ravine, where they're currently above us, right?
Matt: Yes, they're about 30 feet above you guys on the opposite side.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and reverse rappel with the rope, the other end of the endless rope, up to them.
Marisha: Also, as a bonus action, I can switch the direction of the vine to lash out at the same creature as a bonus action, so can I grasp a vine and hand them off and stair-step them down?
Matt: No, the vine is attached at a base, it's almost like it grew out of the ground, so what Grasping Vine allows you to do, is you can-- wherever it's based at, it pulls it to it.
Marisha: Right. It just says, until the spell ends, you can direct the vine to lash out at the same creature on my bonus action. So.
Matt: It doesn't do damage. What it does is it just grasps and pulls towards it. So what you can do is, each turn you can change the target. If you change the target, it's gonna release the broom and they're both gonna tumble up.
Marisha: Well, I don't wanna do that. But I can't change the origin of the vine?
Matt: Not without casting the spell again.
Taliesin: I'm gonna reverse-Batman this shit.
Matt: All right, so you start reverse-rappelling up the side. What's everyone else doing?
Liam: Where's Grog and the flying carpet?
Matt: Grog, Kerrek, and Keyleth are all still on the other side with Kima and Allura. They're all on the other side of the ravine.
Liam: Get off the rug, get off the rug. Get off the rug, now, please.
Marisha: I'm not on the rug!
Liam: Isn't anyone on the rug? That's why I asked.
Matt: The rug is still with them, it's on the other side.
Liam: Back where it was. Shit.
Matt: Nobody's taken the rug across--
Taliesin: The rug's a terrible idea, right now, anyway.
Travis: I can't get on the rug, so one of you lighter people, will you go get those two, please?
Taliesin: I'm just, I'm going up super fucking fast.
Matt: Okay, so you rappel up the side. While they're holding on there, one more corpse tumbles up past. It's going to attempt to--
Laura: Can I-- no, I can't do that. I'm like floating, basically. Basically I'm like falling and just held onto a broom that's being held onto the wall.
Matt: Right now, if you were to try and take a shot, you could try, but you'd be at disadvantage for all your attacks.
Laura: I want to try to-- any zombies or undead that come near us, I want to try to shoot them and at least ricochet.
Matt: Okay, well, one comes tumbling past. What are you doing, Kerr?
Patrick rothfuss: If nobody else on this side is getting on this carpet, then I will.
Matt: Okay, so Kerrek hops on the carpet and it begins to lift above the ground.
Marisha: Can I get on it as well and still maintain the concentration on my Grasping Vine?
Travis: But why would you do that, because you've gotta put two people on that carpet?
Marisha: What?
Travis: We're trying to put them on the carpet, right?
Taliesin: It can hold four or five people.
Marisha: I'm trying to hold the concentration on their Grasping Vine so they don't get fucked. So I'm going to get on the carpet.
Travis: You know, if you get hit by something that falls.
Marisha: That's true. But I have advantage on concentration checks these days.
Matt: Allura--
Laura: Oh my god.
Taliesin: Hang on, I'm coming.
Laura: Yeah, no, that's the thing. Percy's on his way to save us, so you guys just try to hold onto that carpet.
Taliesin: Get across, we need people to pull us back.
Marisha: Also, Grasping Vine's not a concentration spell. It's a bonus action, and-- no, no, it's a concentration spell.
Matt: Allura, watching this happen, grabs Kima and Dimension Doors across to the other side, sets Kima aside, and just stays there, waiting carefully.
Marisha: Scanlan does have Dimension Door.
Laura: He does. He could do it for himself.
Matt: And one other person of equal size, which is only Pike. And Kima, technically, but Kima's already gotten across.
Laura: That sucks, 'cause Scanlan could've taken Kima.
Taliesin: Scanlan also has a plan, if you guys are about to really fucking die.
Matt: So you're just waiting. Kerrek and Keyleth are going across. Are you guys going just directly across, or are you going towards Vex and--
Patrick rothfuss: Well, if they were to fall, I'm heading wherever below that is, toward them, to offer support if they lose it. I'm also ready to Turn Undead if a big cluster of these things comes towards us.
Marisha: I'm maintaining concentration while floating next to Kerr on the carpet.
Matt: All right, so you guys, as the carpet heads out, you hearing the carpet as you move forward, Kerrek, you barrel roll the carpet and begin heading upward to float underneath where Pike and Vex will be. As you begin heading upward, it's funny you mention that. What were singular bodies tumbling upward are now groupings. Four or five, almost chained together, like these small balls of just limbs and bones and gnashing zombified teeth begin just (falling sounds) upward. One of them slams into the bridge and scatters out, sending a number of bodies spinning outward, broken arms and limbs from the impact. The bridge itself cracks a bit, and you watch as the center of it is still being held by a rope, but it is currently not overly walkable without holding the rope to get across.
Taliesin: You can use the rope just to steady yourself on the carpet.
Matt: One of these clusters starts making its way upwards towards where the carpet is.
Patrick rothfuss: If I'm steering the carpet, can I dodge away from this? Because even if I Turn it, they will have velocity.
Matt: Correct. You have not driven a magic carpet before. I would ask you to go ahead and, let's see, for this? Make an intelligence check.
Patrick rothfuss: Jesus is my copilot. (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence check, just a straight d20 plus your intelligence modifier.
Patrick rothfuss: The first fucking character I make where I lowball intelligence. (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: Oh. That is a-- just straight?
Matt: Well, plus your modifier, whatever that is.
Patrick rothfuss: Wait, my proficiency modifier?
Matt: Your intelligence modifier.
Patrick rothfuss: Oh, yeah, no. That's an eight.
Matt: Okay. So, moving this across, you're basically watching this thing come careening upwards, and you're trying to shift out of the way to maintain momentum and have this not impact you, but both the nerves of what's happening, the unfamiliarity with the change in gravity and not running a carpet before, you move out of the way just as it slams into the upper corner, causing the carpet to shift and quake. Oh man.
Patrick rothfuss: Can I push Keyleth hard enough to get her to the other side?
Matt: You guys were heading upward, so if you were to kick her off, she would probably still arc upward at this point. You guys are essentially, in theory, you're below the ravine if this were normal gravity.
Marisha: How close are we to--
Matt: You guys are about 30 feet across, 'cause the movement speed of the carpet is, if I recall, from what I told you, right, it was 30 feet?
Marisha: So we're not close to Pike and Vex.
Matt: Not yet. You're halfway there.
Taliesin: Just so you know, the second my feet hit the stone of the upper wall, I'm going to hold on-- I no longer have to repose, I've got the spider, I'm going to double-dash towards them with the rope.
Matt: So, as they get hit, Percy has just made it up the wall to you and Pike.
Taliesin: And I'm just tying them to the rope.
Matt: Double-dash got you there.
Marisha: If Kerr's kicking me off, I'm reaching for Pike and the broom and still trying to maintain concentration while trying to reach for those guys.
Matt: Okay, well, first and foremost. First and foremost. Oh man, this got really complicated. I love it, it's great. I-- okay. I would like both Kerr and Keyleth to roll strength saving throws to maintain hold on the carpet.
Liam: How far are they from me?
Matt: They're about-- right now? 35, 40 feet.
Patrick rothfuss: You get a plus three, by the way.
Marisha: I do?
Matt: Yes, you do. From being just near him. He's so awesome that when you're near him-- Paladins, man.
Liam: I'm on the very edge. Close as I can get, right?
Marisha: 14.
Matt: 14? Okay. Kerr?
Patrick rothfuss: 23.
Matt: You both maintain your grip on the carpet. I will say, for the sake of this, Keyleth, make a concentration check.
Marisha: I have my advantage 'cause of Warcaster, yeah?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Marisha: That one's cocked.
Matt: You just need to beat a ten.
Marisha: Okay, yeah, I beat that ten with a 26.
Matt: Okay, so you maintain concentration, you maintain hold of the carpet. The carpet rights itself, the corpses go spinning upward into the abyss above. The carpet has now spent the rest of its turn getting into position to guard you and Pike, just in case it's necessary. So. You guys are in place. Percy, you've tied the rope--
Taliesin: Tied them, holding onto everybody, and I just have been yelling, pull!
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: I've got them on the rope, pull the rope down!
Laura: That's you.
Taliesin: Who else is on that side of the--
Matt: Right now, it's Kima and Allura as well.
Taliesin: Yeah, as many people as can start running out that way.
Matt: You guys all grab the rope that's currently affixed to Percy, that hopefully you've been holding this whole time. I'm imagining you would've.
Liam: I don't know, where's the rope? There's so much going on.
Taliesin: I'm going to use my spider-walk ability to actually just maintain everything and just keep an eye out and try and safety-spot everything.
Matt: Okay. So you go ahead and start pulling the rope. Kima and Allura help out. Allura's not doing much, eight, unfortunately, but Kima is.
Patrick rothfuss: And we were technically below them. I'll just bring the carpet towards them and elevator them up if I can get below.
Matt: Okay, cool. So now we have Kerrek and Keyleth. Keyleth, are you releasing the vine? Because it's currently what's holding them against the stone wall.
Marisha: Are you grabbing onto the carpet?
Matt: They both have ropes they're grabbing onto from Percy, and they're being pulled below. Do a strength check.
Marisha: I let go, and can I switch to a Gust cantrip to try and push us down?
Matt: Gust cantrip is not gonna be strong enough to push anyone of your weight. Cantrips are very simple.
Liam: I rolled a 19, so 21.
Matt: 21, good, so between you and Kima, you both begin to just hand-over-hand, pulling the rope as it's taut up against the edge and upward. Vex, Pike, you both begin being pulled upwards, and Kerr, you're lifting with Keyleth, keeping that. You guys get right to the edge. You look down as you see this one cluster of what looks to be maybe 20 or so bodies comes up, not as a ball, but what looks to be almost a giant skeletal hand made up of smaller corpses is tumbling upward and reaching, its outstretched, large, maybe 15-foot-wide grasp towards this carpet.
Laura: Oh my god.
Patrick rothfuss: I do Channel Divinity on that shit.
Matt: Okay. So what is your save DC for your spell DC?
Laura: Grog's still on the other side.
Taliesin: And Scanlan.
Laura: Oh, no, this is perfect.
Patrick rothfuss: 14.
Matt: 14. Okay. Hold on just a second, real fast. So for your Channel Divinity here, it's eight plus your proficiency bonus plus your charisma modifier.
Patrick rothfuss: So eight plus... that'd be seven plus, yeah, that's right.
Matt: 15?
Patrick rothfuss: 14. Oh, you're right, you're right, 15.
Matt: 15, yeah. All right. Cool. So, with that.
Laura: This is a really cool setup, Matt, though. It's really fucking badass.
Marisha: It's a pain in our ass, but it's really awesome.
Laura: The visual of it is amazing.
Matt: I'm enjoying this quite a bit.
Marisha: Dead bodies falling to the ceiling, reaching up, yeah, no, it's cool. This is definitely a Brendan Frasier movie.
Laura: Yeah, for sure.
Matt: Okay, so. As this giant, skeletal hand reaches upwards to basically scoop up the entirety of the cluster of everyone gathered right at the edge of this ravine, the carpet pushing them inward, it's almost gonna sandwich the party into the palm of this, you watch as Kerrek, clutching the edge of the carpet, reaches up from beneath his armor and grabs his own holy symbol, clutches it firm in his grasp and looks upward, shouting a whispered word that doesn't reach anybody's ears but the ones that it's intended for. And as it does, you watch as a piercing bit of light jettisons in an upward-- or downward direction from your perspective-- towards this hand. As it reaches out its outstretched zombie fingers, it bursts, and as it does, the hand is scattered outward in a small shockwave. All the bodies, once linked, are now sent into separate, disparate spinning corpses that all reach out helplessly as they all go scattering past upward and disappearing into the ravine above. With that final push, you all get down on the opposite side of the ravine, safe and sound.
Laura: Oh my god. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry.
Taliesin: I grab you and give you a big kiss. Big, sexy, still-tied-up makeout kiss. Hey, well done not passing out this time. Good for you.
Laura: Thanks for saving me, darling. You.
Matt: Grog and Scanlan are waving from the other side of the ravine.
Taliesin: I untie the broom and the--
Laura: Don't untie it all, I like being attached to it.
Marisha: And I go over to Percy and I say, smitten. Smitten.
Taliesin: I slowly start shoving Keyleth back towards the ravine.
Matt: Just Scanlan's arms crossed, and his eyes are very wide, and he's kind of looking around.
Taliesin: Scanlan's with Grog.
Matt: I know.
Travis: Yeah, we're just kind of watching the fucking show.
Matt: "So. What do you think?"
Travis: I think we just leave 'em.
Matt: "Yeah, you're right, let's go." You watch as Scanlan and Grog turn around and start walking back from where you guys came.
Liam: Hand around Kerrek's neck, pulling him in. Thank you. Thank you. Fucking thank you.
Patrick rothfuss: That... that... so this is pretty much just a Tuesday for you guys, right?
Taliesin: It's more of a Thursday. (laughter)
Laura: I give Kerr a big hug. Thank you. Saved the day.
Matt: A giant impact, as behind you, another sphere of these corpses slams into the bridge, causing it to snap and go limp against the upper portion of the ravine.
Taliesin: Well, okay, how are we going to get the last-- there's still a rope.
Travis: I had a question. So I take one of my five empty jugs out of the Bag of Holding, and I go to the edge. While they were up there doing all that shit. I look down and I just throw it straight down as hard as I can. Does it immediately go whoop?
Matt: Yep. Upwards.
Taliesin: Bit of an arc. You want to pee, don't you?
Patrick rothfuss: I see what you're doing, and I grab just whatever, a rock or something. I try to throw it straight across.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a strength check.
Patrick rothfuss: Because it should fall at first, but if it's 50/50, it should fall and then fall the other way, and it'll go right across.
Travis: Right, so if you did a jump.
Liam: It's like Angry Birds. If you get the arc right.
Taliesin: I've got a great idea. You grab the end of the rope that's still tied, of our endless rope. On the count of three, Scanlan's going to jump on your back, on the count of three, they're going to make a running jump, and we're going to run, all of us holding like a giant game of tug-of-war, and just see if we can pull them across like a kite.
Travis: I will pull you all into the chasm.
Marisha: I thought everyone was over.
Matt: Scanlan and Grog.
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Taliesin: Well, if you tie yourself to the rope, too, no matter what, we'll be able to-- so you'll at least be tethered.
Travis: Can't somebody fly the carpet back over and then-- can't Pike fly it back over, and then she and Scanlan can bamf over, and then I can just try and make it across with the carpet.
Laura: Well, I could go over on the fucking broom again, dear lord. How about the bodies? Are they still flying?
Matt: They're still going past, and it's like little singular ones here and there, but every now and then a cluster.
Laura: Thing is, I can put Grog in the necklace and bring him over.
Marisha: Grog, can you backpack Scanlan?
Travis: Yeah. And then what?
Marisha: And jump really hard?
Taliesin: Chain of Returning?
Matt: Chain of Returning is-- what's the range on that?
Laura: 40 feet? Or is it 60 feet?
Travis: It is somewhere.
Taliesin: I've got a crazy idea.
Travis: Doesn't have a range.
Matt: I want to say we have it set at a 30-foot range. It's a big weapon.
Travis: Sure, I'm down with that, 30 feet.
Matt: Are you attaching it to your hammer?
Travis: No, I'm not attuned to that. I've got the little hammer now. Oh, sorry, the hammer, yes.
Matt: So yeah, that has a furthest range of 60 feet.
Travis: How far across the chasm is the thing?
Matt: 60 feet.
Marisha: Can you attach the Chain of Returning to the hammer?
Travis: I mean, I can essentially attach it to anything, I think.
Laura: I feel like I could go back over.
Taliesin: (laughs) Sorry.
Laura: I know, I rolled a one, though, you guys. It was real shit.
Marisha: How much time has it been?
Matt: Has passed? I'd say you've probably hit a good minute, little over a minute since the very beginning of this endeavor. Probably a little longer. Given time to look over it since it happened, and converse about what to do.
Patrick rothfuss: I say, if we have a rope tied to her, we could bring her back if something bad happened.
Laura: Totally, totally. All right, cool. Attach a rope to me. I bamf Trinket out so my necklace is empty, and then I take off across the channel.
Taliesin: But we have two, are we just going to do it twice?
Laura: Scanlan can get on the broom.
Taliesin: Oh, and Grog can get in the necklace! That's very clever.
Laura: So I want to fly back over.
Matt: All right, so.
Laura: Heart pounding, this was terrifying. I'm sorry, buddy.
Matt: You jump onto the broom, steel yourself.
Taliesin: I'm gonna anchor this rope also to Trinket, just so there's extra weight.
Matt: Trinket happily allows that anchoring to happen.
Taliesin: All right, you guys feed it, I'm gonna be ready.
Matt: You barrel-roll across. Across the way--
Laura: I wanna try to time it so I avoid as many as I can.
Matt: There are-- there's a small cluster that comes by, and a couple of minor individual bodies on this side. Make two dexterity saving throws.
Laura: Okay, cool, cool, cool, tight, tight, tight. Here we go, here we go, here we go. Natural 20!
Marisha: What's up?
Laura: And that one's totally fine, too. That's a 29.
Matt: You just whip past, out of the grasp. You hear the clacking of bones--
Taliesin: I think with a natural 20, you could steal jewelry from one of them as you went by, like, that's a nice necklace.
Marisha: Top Gun high-five!
Matt: You make it across to the other side. There, you see Scanlan waiting, arms crossed, foot tapping at an accelerated rate. Grog waiting, finding another vase to throw, and all of a sudden you watch as Vex comes streaming across and eventually rights herself back up to your position, her hair falling normally flat to her side.
Laura: Oh hey, guys.
Marisha: And I give her a big high-five!
Matt: You don't, 'cause you're on the other side.
Marisha: What?
Liam: She made it one way, she's gotta go back the other way.
Matt: Keyleth high-fives her from across the ravine.
Marisha: High-five, woo!
Liam: Wait a minute. Are you saying this story only exists in our imagination? (laughter)
Laura: Hey, Grog. Do you trust me?
Travis: No.
Laura: Do you wanna get in this necklace?
Travis: Sure.
Taliesin: He knows! Modify Memory. (laughter)
Taliesin: Back in the Matrix.
Laura: And then Scanlan.
Matt: So Grog, a familiar sensation. Once you're back in that chamber I described to you once before.
Laura: And Scanlan, I want him to affix himself to this broom, like really tie him on here.
Matt: You go to get to the broom, and he just latches onto the side of your leg. "I'm fine here."
Laura: I still tie some rope around. I've got the Rope of Entanglement, I can at least wrap us up.
Matt: You actually magically restrain him with the Rope of Entanglement, so he's bound in a spiral fashion to the actual broom as you get on top of it. Begin to cross to the other side? Okay. At this point, you watch as another corpse tumbles past, and looking downward, not a hand, but what looks like a giant face emerging, built of various pieces of zombified corpses and bones, the mouth opening almost to try and swallow you as you zoom over that way. Make two dexterity saving throws. The first is against the singular zombie, lower DC.
Liam: Is she within 30 feet of me at this point?
Matt: She will be in just a moment. First one she's not, second one she will be.
Marisha: It's her and Pike?
Matt: No, it's her and Scanlan.
Laura: The first one is-- I add my dexterity?
Matt: Correct. Or whatever your dexterity saving throw is.
Laura: Okay, that's a 26.
Matt: First one, you zip past without an issue, and that's when you look down and notice the giant face coming up. Second.
Liam: Wait, she's within 30 feet of me now? I'm Blessing her.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Scanlan is also inspiring her.
Laura: Okay, that's good, that's good, though, this is good. 27.
Matt: 27. The mouth comes up to try and slam shut around you, and as it comes up, you just arc out of the way. You guys watch as the jaw begins to close, and just as these jutting pieces of broken bone, skulls, and shoulderblades that make this weird makeshift mouth of this entity begin to close and slam shut, you watch as the broom just barely catches out of the top of it, arcs downward, and makes it across the way without impact. Just as Vax finishes his Blessing spell on her, you've all now made it across safely to the other side of the ravine here.
Marisha: Now I give her a high-five.
Laura: I untie Scanlan and pop Grog out.
Matt: Grog, you're released. Trinket comes up to you and starts licking the side of your face.
Travis: That really seemed very easy. I don't see what the big deal was. (laughter)
Taliesin: You want to try again? I know that you're considering it reasonably.
Marisha: Don't put these ideas in his head.
Matt: So, what are you guys doing?
Laura: Move forward, I guess.
Matt: All right, so you push forward--
Laura: Check for traps!
Matt: Check for traps, okay.
Liam: Thank you. Thank for catching my sister, thank you.
Matt: Investigation check.
Liam: Checking for traps.
Laura: Good, I hope you rolled well.
Liam: I always roll well on this. 18.
Laura: 'Cause I rolled a one again.
Matt: Wow. Better now than a moment ago. All right, so. As you guys push forward into this dark chamber, now, the humans, I imagine you still have your warhammer out for light, Kerrek?
Patrick rothfuss: Yes.
Matt: So you have enough of a radius where you can kind of make out the scenery and such. As you progress forward about 45, 50 feet further down this path, you see what looks to be a small structure built into the ground, almost like a multi-tiered statue of some kind, and you hear what sounds like a very faint bit of trickling, rushing water.
Liam: Statue of a what, please?
Matt: You're not quite sure yet. As you approach, you look at it, and it appears to be a fountain, like a small structure that contains what would be a bowl for water, and then a central, smaller tier that opens up into a smaller bowl, and kind of a jagged edge to it. It looks a little sinister. And at the very top looks to be a humanoid face that's stretched into this ghastly, horrified expression of terror and gasp. From its mouth is pouring a small trickle of water, but it is upward. And it's just spilling onto the ceiling, where it's just pooling and separating into cracks. The path continues past it. It's just in the center of the hallway.
Travis: It's going up, but we're not.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: We're just not light enough.
Taliesin: Or not close enough.
Patrick rothfuss: Or we're not in the area of effect, yet.
Marisha: I reach down and I grab a little pebble and toss it towards the fountain.
Matt: Okay. You toss it towards the fountain, the pebble clinks. And the fountain is empty, it is dry on the inside right now, on each of the lower tiers, because the water that is being poured from this face is trickling upward and hitting the ceiling. It's this steady, constant stream.
Marisha: Pebble.
Matt: You throw the pebble into the fountain, it just kinda comes to rest.
Travis: What's on the ceiling? Just flat?
Matt: It looks to be just a stone ceiling, and the water's just hitting in one particular spot. If you want to roll a perception check.
Travis: 16.
Matt: Okay, you glance up, and from what little bit you can see with your Darkvision, the water appears to be impacting something that has a different surface than the ceiling stonework. It's smoother, shinier, it reflects a little bit of light.
Marisha: How high, roughly, is the ceiling?
Matt: It's about 15 feet up at this point.
Marisha: Only 15?
Liam: Is it a dead end?
Matt: No, the path continues past it. Just straight.
Taliesin: Oh, god.
Travis: Well, we could pour a bunch of water in the fountain.
Taliesin: I don't know if we should touch the water that's coming out of the fountain. I think it's coming out of a petrified human that's been turned into a mystical source of water, is the vibe I'm getting.
Travis: Oh, I just meant pour water out of the alchemy jug.
Laura: Like, into the fountain?
Liam: I'd like to move along the edge of the room, checking for traps ahead.
Matt: Okay. So Vax continues forward.
Liam: 19.
Matt: Okay. So you coast ahead, keeping an eye out. There are no traps, but you do sense that there is some mechanism involved with this fountain.
Liam: I'm gonna stop where I am, then.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to walk up the wall towards, very gingerly, doing my best to check for traps or anything unusual, towards whatever it is that the water's hitting on the ceiling.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: That's a natural 20.
Matt: As you walk up the edge-- what's your actual perception bonus?
Taliesin: My perception? With my perception, 28.
Matt: Okay. You make it up to the top, and as you glance in, you can see there's some sort of a green emerald-like gem that is embedded into the ceiling that the water is just trickling onto.
Taliesin: Do I recognize the green emerald gem? It's a green gem, or is it residuum?
Matt: No, no, it is not residuum, it is not processed whitestone. It is an emerald-like gem, although it is imperfect. It is not, you know, a jeweler has not cut over it to make it a beautiful gem. It is a little rough.
Taliesin: And the water is hitting that gem.
Matt: It's hitting the gem and it's kind of just pooling around it and sifting into cracks and being drawn.
Taliesin: I'm feeling the urge to fuck with this. I'm really hoping someone tells me not to.
Laura: Probably maybe leave it?
Liam: Wait half a minute, half a minute.
Taliesin: I'm going to edge towards it gently, and I'm actually-- this is going to sound weird-- I'm going to spit at it to see at what range my spit decides to move towards it.
Matt: Okay. So you spit at it, and your spit still kinda arcs downward, normal gravity, then it hits the water and just gets caught up in the water.
Taliesin: Okay, so it's the water itself that's being-- something maybe in the fountain?
Marisha: Can I do an investigation? Can I do a closer look at the fountain?
Matt: Yeah, make an investigation check.
Marisha: Man, I hate investigating.
Liam: What's the light like?
Matt: There is no light in this room, other than the source of Kerr's hammer.
Marisha: 20 total on the fountain. 20.
Matt: 20 on the fountain, okay. There is, best you can tell, some magical source. This is connected to something. You're not entirely sure what.
Marisha: No gems? I don't see any gems?
Matt: I mean, you see-- there's no gems based inside the actual fountain itself. The only gem that's--
Marisha: Something magical about the fountain.
Matt: Yes. There is a magical essence to it.
Patrick rothfuss: I will do it if nobody else wants to. Can you catch some of the water in a jar or container?
Matt: Yeah, if you want to.
Patrick rothfuss: 'Cause I look around, I don't want to disrupt anything, but I'll just catch a little in a bottle. Once it's in the bottle, does it still pull upward?
Matt: Once you pull it in the bottle, it rests back into regular gravity.
Patrick rothfuss: Does it just smell like regular water?
Matt: It smells... it smells very stagnant. Hard water-ish, like Pirates of the Caribbean or It's a Small World.
Laura: Gross.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. It's not the clearest of Arrowhead. It's cold.
Marisha: I mean, we could have Scanlan do a Dispel Magic on it.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Dispel the fountain. Or the gem. Or I could carve the gem out of the ceiling.
Taliesin: I'm standing next to the gem. I can pry it out of the ceiling if we have to.
Marisha: But that means you have to touch it.
Liam: What can I see down the way I'm looking?
Matt: You, looking ahead, the tunnel continues and you're starting to see more and more of the essence of reclaimed stonework. You can see, whereas previously this ravine was an actual semi-natural tunnel that pushed forward, the walls begin to get more brick-like. It's looking more and more like a really, really old, for lack of a better term, temple or structure where you can see there was care put into its design.
Liam: Okay. So the statue's in this semi-natural chamber. And turns into more carved-out, civilized.
Taliesin: I might run down to Grog. Do you have a spare jar or jug that I can borrow?
Travis: I do. What do you want for it?
Taliesin: I just want to borrow it for like five minutes, and I'll give it back.
Travis: What you got for trade? (laughter)
Taliesin: I have nothing--
Travis: Is that an ascot you're wearing?
Taliesin: Yes, it is.
Travis: I'll take that.
Taliesin: It won't even fit around your neck.
Travis: I don't care. I want it.
Taliesin: Do you know how to tie an ascot?
Travis: I want to be dignified.
Marisha: I can teach you later, Grog.
Taliesin: Oh, that alone. That's adorable. I tie a little Dickie's first day of school Christmas bow. And I take my little pin and I pin it on him.
Travis: Here's your jug.
Taliesin: Thank you. (laughter)
Taliesin: And I go walking back up. I have a theory that maybe if we cover the green gem, that might do a thing, so if we start to cross and everything goes weird, I'm going to cover the green gem.
Liam: Hey, for science.
Taliesin: For science. But let's try and leave this room without doing anything, maybe.
Liam: Besides what you're doing?
Taliesin: I'm not gonna do anything unless something happens.
Travis: How high is the ceiling?
Matt: 15 feet.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: Hey, Grog. If it comes to that. Don't worry about it.
Matt: So what's the plan?
Liam: Scootch forward, to the other side, looking for traps, looking for traps.
Matt: Okay, you continue to scootch forward.
Marisha: I stay with Grog and Percy.
Laura: I stand in between.
Matt: Okay, so you guys stay back there. Okay, Kima and Allura stay back, waiting for you guys to scout as well. Okay. You guys, make stealth checks again.
Laura: I'm scared of all my dice right now. Just, all of them.
Liam: 30.
Laura: 17.
Matt: Okay. You guys begin to very, very slowly make your way up ahead, and you watch as the path ahead of you begins to-- the ceiling begins to grow higher and higher, and the hall begins to widen open a little bit, and begins to split in two directions, like all of a sudden the tunnel breaks into two different paths, with the ceiling rising and growing wider on each of those paths as it presses forward. You're starting to see portions of it are still the cavern-type feel, but once again, you're seeing more and more sections where it looks like all these walls at one point were carved stone and had a specific purpose, and then over time, once again, portions of it have fallen to disuse and ruin.
Taliesin: So nothing-- the fountain did nothing?
Matt: Currently not yet, no.
Liam: Fuck a duck. We've got a fork in the road. What do you want to do?
Taliesin: Let's bring everyone towards you now. Is it time?
Liam: Well, there's nothing immediately dangerous-appearing.
Laura: I'm gonna try to focus on dragons again and see if I can figure out which direction they are.
Matt: Okay, so you use another spell slot.
Travis: We don't wanna pour anything into the fountain?
Taliesin: I don't--
Travis: We did nothing to this thing that's right here, magically pouring water out.
Taliesin: It might just be the equivalent of a big red button.
Travis: I love buttons.
Taliesin: The world loves buttons.
Laura: It's up to you, Grog.
Taliesin: You have a jar of unending water if you wanted to--
Matt: Vex. The sources are still ahead of you. They're still present and still in the direction you guys are facing.
Laura: Do I know which fork they're down?
Matt: In that direction.
Liam: I'd also like to use my last instance of Divine Sense here, at this fork in the road.
Matt: 60-foot radius up there... no. There is no sense of anything undead, fiendish, celestial.
Marisha: Nothing? No sway?
Matt: Not where they currently are, no. What are you guys doing?
Taliesin: I'm waiting for everyone else to-- I'm circling to the other side of the green--
Liam: Are we all gathering up at this fork in the road?
Taliesin: Yeah, if everyone's gonna cross the room.
Matt: Okay. So you just move on? Okay. You guys continue and gather at the edge of this fork. You can see a very, very faint bit of light coming from both sides of the fork, just glancing off a distant opposite cave wall.
Marisha: Both have light?
Matt: Both have a very, very faint bit of a light source. Two of you guys make, since you were up front first, make perception checks, if you could.
Liam: Bupkis for me.
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24? Glancing both ways, for you, it splits off, and they both seem to curve around in almost like a rejoining direction, or at least, they get close to it. The split is less of a split and more that there is just a large column of earth that splits what would be a wide path. The two paths eventually seem to join again on the other side.
Laura: And there's a little bit of light coming from the end of it?
Matt: A little bit of light source. Apparently on the other side of whatever this pillar would be, or at the other side of each of these different paths, that it's just barely reflecting off of the cave walls, enough for it to give you the essence that there is light further.
Liam: Should we all trot along, or should we send us down?
Laura: Trap? You wanna look for traps? The dragons are still in there. Just ahead.
Liam: This could be it, although we thought it could be it twice at least.
Marisha: Do we wanna split the party, half one way, half the other?
Laura: No, let's all stay on one side.
Taliesin: If the water were running, which direction would the water be running down? Like, if the fountain filled-- this is just, I'm trying to conjecture, I feel like the fountain's gonna irritate me for the rest of the god damn night.
Marisha: We can Dispel Magic the fountain.
Laura: It could just be like this could be a water canal that we're looking at right now.
Marisha: I could also get rid of that gem. We have options for dealing with that fountain.
Taliesin: Do it?
Liam: Well, I mean, if it's itching.
Patrick rothfuss: I will say, a lot of the things that we've touched here have been put there to hurt us if we touch them.
Taliesin: Touche.
Patrick rothfuss: But also, the skull that we left behind ambushed us, so it seems to be a horse apiece in terms of a pattern, here.
Taliesin: I figure, I think, if you've made it this far, that you've not touched several things at this point, so. This is so obviously a-- I know.
Marisha: I mean, if it's just a trap then it's just a trap and we avoided it and we moved on.
Liam: All right, look, we've got two identical passages. Do you want to flip a coin? Or can you see any benefit to either side?
Laura: It looks like they come back together. This is just a giant separation thing.
Liam: Flip a coin?
Laura: Oh, but I have an actual coin.
Liam: Do you? Pull it out. Come on, treasurer.
Matt: What are you guys doing?
Liam: We're picking a passageway.
Matt: What are these guys doing? Are you catching up with them?
Taliesin: Yeah, I'll start walking towards them.
Marisha: I hang back with Grog.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Grog. What do you think, man?
Travis: I just feel like, I don't know, nothing more sad than an empty fountain.
Marisha: What do you want to do, you want to fill it with water?
Travis: Well, yeah, I feel like that's what a fountain does. I mean, like, if you came across an empty fountain, kind of a worthless thing.
Marisha: Do you think a full fountain would help our case in this instance?
Travis: I dunno.
Marisha: We can try it. Do you want to fill it with water?
Travis: Yeah, kinda.
Marisha: All right. I support this endeavor if you want to do it, Grog.
Taliesin: I hear this over the ears, and I'm gonna slowly crawl, not too close back--
Matt: Allura and Kima are, "Um, are you certain you want to do this?"
Liam: Do what, now? Do what, now?
Travis: Allura, it's just an empty fountain, right? It's gotta have a purpose.
Matt: "Right. Do you know whether the purpose is a good or a bad one?"
Travis: I never really get that far.
Matt: "I know you've survived thus far on that mindset. That's surprising, but do what you will, just--"
Taliesin: Oh shit, I have a theory, now. Never mind, I don't want to fuck with it anymore.
Travis: Allura, you're all smart with magic and stuff. Why is this horribly terrified face giving water upwards on an emerald in the ceiling?
Marisha: She rolled good.
Matt: She takes a moment, kind of steps forward and looks at it. "Let me see one of your jugs."
Travis: Yeah, okay. What do you want for it?
Taliesin: I hand her my jug. (laughter)
Matt: She takes it, sets the jug right in the stream, and releases it, and the jug sucks up and essentially covers the gem, and the water just kinda spills across the sides.
Marisha: And then what?
Matt: "Huh. My theory was wrong."
Marisha: What? Hang on, what was your theory? Maybe we can do process of elimination.
Matt: "Well, I was trying to--" And you hear in the distance, behind where you guys came from (impact sounds).
Taliesin: I'm moving right now.
Matt: What sounds like many, many, many things falling, cracking, impacting.
Marisha: Hey, Allura, good theory. Let's run. Let's run.
Travis: We are running towards Vax and Vex.
Patrick rothfuss: It just reversed the gravity in the ravine.
Matt: Which, as Kerrek says this and you all look back, you watch as hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of bodies are now tumbling back down into the ravine below from where they came.
Liam: Turn down for what! (laughter)
Travis: That was so white. That was amazing.
Taliesin: We can make it whiter.
Travis: So white.
Matt: Don't make this any whiter, please.
Liam: Guilty. (laughter)
Travis: Piano riff!
Taliesin: I may play Dungeons and Dragons on the internet, but now I'm embarrassed.
Matt: The water's still going up, and it's still careening and falling through the cracks. It's not a very strong stream, it's just this-- like a small faucet turned on, it's all just trickling upwards, appearing, but that gem being currently blocked seems to have had an effect on the room behind.
Taliesin: Good to know.
Travis: To the right or the left?
Laura: To the right!
Liam: Going to the right, but hold on.
Matt: Same marching order as before?
Liam: I'm gonna go a little bit ahead, 20 feet ahead, looking for traps. I doubt, but I want to check for traps. Stealth and traps, stealth and traps.
Matt: You're still on the same stealth roll you had before.
Liam: Okay, great. So traps, investigation is 18.
Matt: Okay. The floor doesn't appear to be trapped as you coast forward around the other side.
Laura: Check the ceiling. I look at the ceiling.
Matt: It looks like a ceiling. It's about 25, 30 feet in height throughout this chamber.
Liam: And as we move through this passage, what do we see as we get closer to it?
Matt: As you curve around, you notice that the rocky walls become just stone. You see these grey brick walls that begin to turn as you turn around, you see a faint light source from a series of candleabras that mark the edges of this square-like chamber. There are two distant cages in the far corners that seem to bear some sort of slumped, unmoving bodies inside them. There are two pillars in the center of the room that appear to be just strewn with carvings and glyphs from top to bottom, surrounding them entirely. Two large scaled, crimson eggs lie placed against one side of the wall, seemingly untouched, and on the right-hand side of the chamber, at the base of one of these cages, you see a withered and long-dead corpse of Thordak the Cinderking, folded and sagging. You see a tome propped up against a bookstand on the far end, marked by a singular page, where a series of bookshelves and chains line the walls of this apparent laboratory. You see at the current opened tome across the way, arms crossed, and reading quietly, a tall female with dark green hair and silver, shimmery-like skin facing away from you. And we'll pick up for that next week.
Marisha: I knew it.
Matt: 'Cause it is late. Patrick, are you gonna join us for Skype next week?
Marisha: Or in LA?
Patrick rothfuss: Actually, I am coming out to LA. It's an issue of how quickly I'll be able to get to PAX afterwards.
Matt: Oh, shit!
Patrick rothfuss: 'Cause I'm doing PAX South after my LA trip. Really hoping that I will be in your neck of the woods Thursday night. If not, if you want me around for the finish, I would happily Skype in from San Antonio or wherever that is. Up to you.
Laura: Ash might be able to Skype in, too.
Matt: Dual Skype, maybe. Well, let us know, please do.
Patrick rothfuss: I would be delighted.
Taliesin: Thank you for handling Skype so well. It is not easy to be on the other side of that camera. It's so frustrating.
Patrick rothfuss: It's certainly not as nice as being up close and personal with you all, but I'm just glad that I am not experiencing vast technical eras-- eras, yes, errors.
Liam: Well, we're glad to have you.
Matt: Yeah, thanks so much. All right, well we'll be--
Laura: Thanks for saving us, Kerr!
Patrick rothfuss: (laughs) There was a delightful amount of mutual saving.
Marisha: And, as always, don't forget to tune in for Talks Machina on Tuesday night with Brian Foster. I'm sure he's going to have at least two of us.
Matt: That will be announced as the week progresses.
Marisha: Throughout the week, I'm sure, he will announce two of us.
Matt: Also, as a heads-up, guys, once again, big thank you to Loot Crate for being our fantastic sponsor starting in the new year. They were awesome enough to let us tonight be the first to announce their February theme, as their previous theme ended. The theme is 'build' for this one, and the brands that are included in that include Power Rangers, Batman, Lego, Tetris, things that involve building, construct, that type of a feel, so more information will be coming out with that, but 'build' is the next theme. Check out lootcrate.com for the full reveal of everything they're gonna have in there, and don't forget to use the promo code 'criticalrole', one word, for the discount when you sign up. (cheering)
Marisha: I hope they got those Tetris stickers again that they had a year ago, those Tetris stickers were dope.
Matt: We'll see what they got. Thank you guys so much, rest well, you guys as well. We'll see you next week, and is it Thursday yet? Have a good night!
Travis: Nice one! [no audio] [end of transcript]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons--
All: (cheering)
Matt: -- you assholes.
Marisha: Der 'n' Der!
Matt: Welcome. Tonight should be an interesting episode, but, before we begin, let's go ahead and get through our announcements for the evening! So, welcome, and, first and foremost, tonight we are sponsored by our friends at Loot Crate.
All: (cheering) Loot Crate!
Matt: Thank you, Loot Crate, for being amazing sponsors. Sam, did you want to tell us a little about--
Sam: Okay! I haven't done this in a while, so I'm falling back on an old crutch, an old beloved character-- Rhodey Slater is back to do another round--
Matt: (laughing) Oh my god.
Sam: Gotta get in character. (in surfer voice) Yo-ho-ho, it's me, Rhodey Slater, with another message from our sponsor, Loot Crate. Whether you're dropping in on a party wave in Uluwatu or even Tamarindo, you won't look like a paddle-puss if you haul your tres gnarly gear from El Crate-o del Loot-o. This month's theme is Build, featuring sick brands like Power Rangers, hang ten; Batman, wax it up; Lego, mondo bitchin'; and Tetris, shaka. (all laugh)
Sam: So don't get raked over by a wiper, point your nose to Lootcrate.com/CriticalRole and use promo code "criticalrole" for 10% off your subscription. You'll be radder than Tom Curren nailing a 360 air reverse rodeo. You'll be cooler than a tight on-shore breeze at Malibu. You'll be more authentic than a sad voice actor searching for surfing terms on Yahoo Answers at 5 pm-- (all laugh)
Sam: -- when he should be really spending more quality time with his children, as their youthful lives pass by without their father, precious moments ticking away until one day they're adults, and you're standing at their wedding, thinking, "Oh my god, I missed so much, I missed so very much, and for what? A Loot Crate ad?" Anyway, ride that tube and subscribe today, (shouting) bonzai! (all laugh and cheer)
Travis: I mean, he's a whole new echelon. It's a whole new--
Taliesin: You just Inception'd a Loot Crate ad.
Matt: Thank you for that!
Travis: Incredible!
Matt: Sam.
Marisha: You took, like, a failed Californian sketch and turned it into Oscar-winning material.
Matt: That is, thank you very much.
Laura: It hurts, it hurts.
Liam: I didn't know Rhodey's, Rhodey's a father, that's an interesting development.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Indeed.
Sam: Many. Many.
Matt: Just a heads-up, guys, we've done a couple of these and we're going to do a couple more of these upcoming For Honor streams, where a few of us are going to be guesting on here for a number of hours to play For Honor and beat the shit out of each other and other people, as various historical warriors of old. And then a number of us are actually, I think, a voice in the game.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: But yeah. So tomorrow, joining the Nerdist team from 9 am to 12 noon Pacific Time, we have Liam and Travis--
Travis: Woo!
Liam: Tarvis!
Matt: --to jump in on there, and then, on Saturday, from 12 noon to 3 pm, that's going to be Travis, Taliesin, Sam, Marisha, and myself on there--
Marisha: Hey-oh.
Matt: -- all playing the game, getting crazy.
Laura: Woah. Really?
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Why aren't I there?
Travis: 'Cuz you suck.
Laura: Oh man.
Liam: He's right.
Laura: I know it!
Liam: He would know. He would know.
Matt: (laughs) So yeah, it'll be here on the Twitch, check it out, I'm really excited, I haven't played the game yet? And everyone I know who's talked about has said it's ridiculously fun and amazing. It's like, the upgrade of Dark Souls combat and I'm really excited about it.
Travis: I have to, like, show up an hour early and learn how to play, or we're going to get. We're going to get killed a lot.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm probably going to.
Travis: We've got to work on our death sounds.
Liam: What, I'm Leet, man, you're going down, and stuff.
Travis: (belches)
Laura: Leet!
Matt: (accented voice) Going down.
Travis: No. No. You... are the one falling, in the opposite direction of up.
Liam: (in Christopher Walken voice) It's important to point out, we're not doing Walken anymore-- (all laugh)
Liam: --we're doing our impression of Troy, doing an impression of Nolan doing Walken.
Matt: Oh, wow.
Travis: It's a quad lay-up.
Matt: The chain goes deep.
Laura: Yeah, it does.
Travis: (Walken voice) Quad. Lay-up.
Laura: Woah. Just woah. (laughs)
Liam: I don't even know what Walken sounds like, it's come through a daisy-chain of assholes.
Matt: It's true, it's true. That's our next shirt. "Daisy Chain of Assholes." I'm okay with that.
Travis: Critical Role  It's About Scientology--
Matt: Also, don't google that phrase!
Travis: -- and a Daisy Chain of Assholes.
Matt: All right! Next up, we have (quieter) me, breaking my pen. Uh--
Laura: Oh, no.
Matt: April 1st!
Travis: April 1st!
Matt: WonderCon!
Travis: WonderCON!
Matt: Save the date. We have--
Sam: We're allowed to say the date now?
Matt: We do now. That's all the information we have so far, but April 1st, WonderCon. Critical Role and Talks Machina live, in their--
Laura: Be there or be squared!
Matt: -- big room, it's gonna be good.
Travis: Anaheim.
Marisha: Big room, did I say square?
Sam: It is not an epic April Fools' Joke--
Matt: No.
Sam: -- this is really happening.
Travis: It's really happening.
Taliesin: It's really happening.
Sam: Okay.
Travis: And it's going to be a big, big, rowdy room. So if you're like, "Aw, I don't want to go, there's not going to be any seats." There gon' be seats.
Matt: There's plenty of seats.
Liam: Yeah, it's--
Travis: Bring it, if you can.
Liam: --It's April Fools', we're not going to be there.
Travis: I can say that.
Sam: You know what?
Liam: We're not going to do that.
Sam: I will promise that I will play at least one April Fools' joke on one of you, during that panel.
Laura: Ooh.
Taliesin: I'm excited by this.
Laura: Can I vote for Brian?
Liam: I'm not.
Sam: Sure, of course.
Taliesin: I think that's a great idea.
Travis: He's not listening to this right now.
Matt: We should have a poll in the community for which member of the team Sam gets to prank. (all laugh)
Matt: Don't actually do that, please. 'Cause we all know that's going to be--
Taliesin: I'm a big fan of Brian, I have a feeling that's a good bet.
Matt: Also!
Marisha: Man, we're being so transparent.
Matt: Isn't it, though? All right! Next up--
Liam: Wow.
Matt: Signal Boost has returned. Marisha, if you want to talk about that.
Marisha: It has returned--
Travis: Oh, snap!
Marisha: Oh, my goodness, you guys! The amazing Darin De Paul, already. He kicked off the season.
Travis: DDP!
Liam: So good.
Taliesin: It was crazy.
Marisha: Yes. Yeah, he kind of set the bar really high.
Taliesin: It was crazy.
Matt: He's awesome.
Marisha: You guys know Darin as the voice of Reinhardt from Overwatch, and many other things. But--
Matt: He's also the main villain, Ardyn, in Final Fantasy XV and a bunch of other games. Super talented--
Laura: He's blowing up! He's in everything now!
Matt: He's incredible.
Marisha: He's great.
Sam: I don't care for him. (All laugh)
Travis: I think he's rude. And he smells funny.
Matt: There you go.
Sam: He didn't want to come on my show, Siggle Boost.
Marisha: (laughs)
Travis: Siggle Boost?
Sam: Siggle Boost.
Marisha: Wow, I haven't heard of that one.
Taliesin: Do you guys just like draw weird circles?
Sam: Yup. Yeah.
Taliesin: Right, okay. I was just checking.
Matt: And people correct you for mispronouncing it.
Laura: It's called Sigil Boost.
Marisha: Sigil Boost.
Sam: That's true, that's true.
Liam: Let's run the GIF (hard g) of that now, please.
Taliesin: It's pronounced siggle.
Marisha: Yes, it's back. You should watch it. Yup.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: People.
Matt: Yeah, Erika Ishii just did hers--
Marisha: On Tuesdays.
Matt: --and then Amy Dallen's up next, right?
Marisha: Amy Dallen is up next and--
Matt: Awesome.
Marisha: Yeah. It's good people coming up.
Taliesin: Yeah, you drain Erika Ishii's blood. It's pretty great.
Marisha: Yes. We do. Yeah.
Liam: Yeah, but you can only do it once, though.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: It's a great trick. You can only do it once.
Matt: Laura, do you have a merch update?
Laura: Do I? Do I? Do-
Travis: Do I?
Matt: It's on the list.
Laura: We watched Galaxy Quest last night.
Travis: So great.
Laura: So good. Again. For, like, the hundredth time. You know, I mean, there's merch in the store right now. These dice bags that I'm holding in my hand. I literally just happened to be holding it as you asked me that, which is crazy. There's a very small amount of them left, I happen to know.
Sam: In the hundreds? In the fifties? In the tens?
Taliesin: Baker's dozen.
Laura: In the barely hundreds.
Sam: Wow.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: It's a lot.
Marisha: They went fast.
Laura: Which, you know, could be a lot or couldn't. Depending on if you want them.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: There's also shirts! And hats! And patches and--
Matt: (singing) Things, oh God!
Laura: -- other stuff coming up that I'm real excited about, and I'll show it to you when it's here.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: (clicking dice) Such a beautiful sound.
Travis: (sniffing) Allergies. (groans)
Taliesin: You watched Galaxy Quest.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: You don't need that-- he can have that many. You have too many.
Taliesin: You know they have the dubbed version of the alien language on the DVD?
Laura: No!
Taliesin: (alien noises) The whole movie, the entire movie-- You can watch it, if you're drunk enough.
Laura: It's just so good.
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: That's pretty great. All right!
Liam: I'm ready.
Matt: Anything else anyone wants to talk about? Or are we good? I think we're good.
Travis: We're good.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So we're going to hop in, and start off tonight's episode of--
Laura: Oh God.
Matt: Critical Role. (All cheer)
Marisha: That's right. [opening credits]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome back. (all laugh)
Travis: Well done.
Matt: So, to get you up to speed with our current story: Vox Machina, having just completed the destruction of the Chroma Conclave, a scourge of ancient chromatic dragons that have terrorized the countryside. They are victorious, yet in the process lost a couple of lives. Percy returned and Scanlan, his lifeless body brought back to Whitestone. They completed the ritual correctly, and he came to life; however, he remains unconscious in a pseudo-coma. They left him in Whitestone, hopefully to recover. While beginning to finish up some of their last business they've been unable to with the current rush of this current arc. They made a journey to Vasselheim, where they walked through the Abundant Terrace and into the Birthheart itself, the temple of Melora within Vasselheim, spoke with one of the various worshippers there, and buried a box of ashes, apparently, of Senokir's wife--
Marisha: "Apparently"
Matt: --as a thank you for when you guys journeyed and met him in the City of Brass on the Fire Elemental Plane. Upon doing so, you then began to scatter about the city to do some business. One of the elements of which: Grog Strongjaw, along with Pike, made their way to the Trial Forge, which is the Kord section of the city. Returning to the Trial Forge, the temple to Kord, and upon walking to the center of the strangely empty temple structure, you saw, down in a once previously traversed sandpit, there stood Earthbreaker Groon, the high priest of Kord, who then turned to you--
Travis: My palms are really wet.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: --and asked you to "show him what you had learned." After slamming his feet into the sand and preparing himself for conflict, he beckons you towards him. And that is where we left off. So--
Laura: Oh god, oh god, oh god.
Matt: --as you're standing up there on the edge of this pit, Groon just stands there with his hand beckoning towards you.
Travis: I reach into my Bag of Holding, and I pull out a small drawing of the letter "G". This. This is what I have learn-- That's not it. That's not what I wanted. And I take out the Dwarven Thrower and I jump into the sandpit.
Matt: All righty. (jumping sound) (impact thud) There, as you land in the sand, the bottoms of your boots sinking but a couple of inches into the soft surface. Pike gets ready to leap down after and Groon puts his hand up. "No...."
Travis: Oh, shit.
Matt: This fight is for us.
Laura: Oh, god.
Laura: Yeah, we're here, we're watching it, right?
Matt: You guys didn't say if you were catching up with them last time.
Laura: Yeah, we said we came in the temple with them.
Marisha: Uh, no, we're totally watching this.
Taliesin: We're here, we're here.
Matt: So then you guys rush in afterward, hoping that-- Morpheus is fighting Neo, you guys-- (all laugh)
Matt: You all rush in on the outskirts here to watch. I'll put you in over here to keep an eye on the sidelines. Grog, I need you to roll initiative.
Laura: Oh my god!
Travis: (blows raspberry)
Sam: Big roll, big roll.
Marisha: Big roll! Big money, no whammies.
Liam: Now we attack on the count of three.
Travis: I get advantage on my (mumbles)
Taliesin: Jenga.
Liam: Get 'im.
Travis: That's shit.
Laura: God, oh god.
Marisha: Come on, come on.
Travis: That-- that's one worse.
Travis: Five!
Liam: Oh!
Matt: You're going second.
Travis: Hey! You can go away.
Laura: (laughs) You're in jail.
Marisha: You know, second has its advantages sometimes.
Matt: (clears throat) So.
Marisha: Sometimes.
Travis: Mm-hm.
Matt: As you land and ready yourself with the hammer at the side, knowing that all of your friends are up on the outer edges of this watching you, you look up at Groon, who just, his hands at the ready, puts them down at his sides and just.... (slow steps)
Travis: Awesome.
Matt: Just walks up towards you... And just stands there. Your turn.
Sam: Like a matador.
Travis: What a dick move! What a dick move! Right. (clears throat) I, uh. I bow.
Sam: Oh!
Travis: And say... Kord's strength be with you. And I smash the Titanstone Knuckles together.
Matt: All righty! (laughs) Off to a start.
Sam: (sound of impact)
Laura: (whispers) Oh my god. I wish we had popcorn!
Marisha: Oh, yeah. Is there popcorn in the studio?
Denise: (off screen) No.
Laura: Damn it!
Marisha: Damn it!
Marisha: Damn it, Denise.
Taliesin: (laugh)
Laura: (laugh)
Denise: (off screen) Sorry! (all laugh)
Marisha: Always the bearer of bad news, that one.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Don't say her name three times, then your rolls won't come true.
Travis: I would like to move backwards three squares.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: That's my turn.
Matt: All right. On his turn he stands there.
Laura: Ahh!
Matt: He stares right at you.
Travis: Fucking knew it!
Matt: Arms at the side--
Travis: What is-- It's a test already!
Marisha: Waiting for you to go first?
Travis: I hate the SATs! I hate Scantrons, I hate number two pencils, I hate all of it! (all laugh)
Liam: Don't blink, don't blink. Roll with it, player.
Travis: MM-hm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Marisha: It's totally--
Travis: I start in that same distance from him, the same radial distance, I start walking to my right. My full speed.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: That's my turn.
Matt: He turns with you as you move and just rights himself and stares at you. Your turn. (all laugh)
Sam: Worst chess game ever.
Laura: I know, right?
Liam: Smash cut to two hours later. (all laugh)
Matt: I know.
Travis: All right. Okay.
Sam: "What do you want me to do!"
Laura: "Are you hungry? I'm kind of hungry."
Travis: I would like to rage.
Matt: Okay. (woosh) So--
Travis: And I do so by taking the...dwarven thrower and smashing it against my chest. And then I chuck it at him.
Matt: All right. As you slam it into your chest, you can feel the impact, and there's that brief sharp bit of pain as the metal clashes against the muscle, slamming against the bone and your rib cage. And that pain just kind of shoots through you like exciting electricity and you harness the pain as your eyes blur for a moment as you feel the rage overtake you, your muscles flexing and tensing and with that fury now flowing through your body, you take the hammer. I need you to go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Oh no.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: (whispers) I knew it. (louder) I mean, I didn't know it.
Sam: Oh no.
Travis: Which is a minus two, right?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: That's a six.
Matt: As you go to throw, the strength leaves your arm and it just hangs limp at the side. The attack is lost.
Travis: Any reason why?
Matt: You don't know.
Travis: Not that I'd know. Cool. Do I have another attack?
Matt: Yeah. You have two attacks.
Marisha: He just Jedi mind-tricked you.
Travis: I shake off the random numb arm, and I toss it over to the other hand like, "C'mon, Betsy!" And I throw it with that hand. (all laugh)
Matt: Okay. Roll another wisdom saving throw.
Travis: I don't know D&D enough to know what the fuck's happening right now. Ooh! 16?
Matt: Uh, 16, actually let me see this real fast.
Travis: I have a modifier of zero. Minus two.
Laura: Minus two.
Travis: I rolled an 18.
Taliesin: Monks are not in my wheelhouse.
Matt: Monks are fun.
Marisha: I feel like this guy's special, too.
Travis: He's not even here. This is a dream.
Liam: Slowly, Raishan uncurls like a Xenomorph from the ceiling.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Travis: 16.
Matt: Nope. This time, you do manage to push through and throw the hammer, but you end up throwing it way wide. Like, 20 feet away from him. Like, you're looking at him and just go (whoosh) (all laugh)
Matt: It comes back, and you catch it, and you're like, something's just messing with your mind. There's something about his presence right now that is oppressing your ability to actually attack towards him.
Travis: All right. All I have is my bonus action.
Matt: Well, you used your bonus action to rage, right?
Travis: Oh I did, yeah. I don't have a bonus action. That's my turn.
Matt: All right. He turns towards you. Walks forward--
Travis: No, I don't.
Matt: --very, just, carefully and intently. That's his turn. You go.
Travis: God dang it!
Laura: Oh man. What does he want-a!
Taliesin: (whispering) Popcorn.
Laura: (whispering) He wants popcorn.
Taliesin: (whispering) He wants popcorn.
Travis: I try and hit him with it with both hands.
Matt: Okay, so you you're using both hands--
Travis: Yeah, both hands.
Matt: Go for it. Roll a wisdom saving throw. (laughter)
Liam: Look at his little boy smile.
Travis: Six!
Matt: You go to swing and he seems to blur for a moment, your eyes blink and as you swing with the hammer, you swung far to your left and it's almost like your arms are intentionally missing and almost fighting your directoral sense.
Laura: Shut up, Brian Wayne Foster!
Marisha: Awesome! Brian Fostah.
Travis: This is so stupid! Okay, I keep the hammer in one hand but I just try and punch him with the Titanstone Knuckles out of frustration.
Matt: Okay. Make a wisdom saving throw.
Travis: What? No weapon in my hand?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Travis: Nine!
Matt: You go to punch and by the time it gets to his chest there's so little force behind it that your fingers just kind of unfold open against him, almost breaking your wrist in the process, and you pull back, and he's just staring right at you. "Show me you have the will to fight. Come at me!" Are you going to move or are you going to stay where you are?
Travis: I'm going to stay within his attack range, but I'm going to 180 around him.
Matt: Okay. That's easy enough to get around here. All righty.
Travis: And I'll stay there.
Matt: All right. For his turn, he turns around--
Travis: No he doesn't. Come on. Come on.
Matt: Your turn.
Travis: Oh, this is a nightmare. I just want to hit him! (all laugh)
Travis: All right. All right. Maybe it's all about love! And I try and give him a bear hug!
Matt: Okay... make a wisdom saving throw.
Travis: No!
Laura: You got this. Natural 20.
Travis: That's a zero. (all laugh)
Travis: I rolled a two.
Laura: Two zero, exactly.
Matt: You go to grab him, and you reach, and you feel this physical form in your grasp, and then your arms all of a sudden touch nothing, and you realize that he's standing where he was. You grabbed what was almost like a mirage or an illusion, it's almost like your brain is playing tricks on you. That's one attack.
Travis: (surprised grunt)
Laura: You can do it, Grog! I don't know what he wants, but figure it out!
Travis: I look so pathetic right now.
Sam: Yo, how does it look to the rest of the gang?
Matt: It looks hilarious. (all laugh)
Liam: What did we just see?
Matt: It's hilarious, and it's disconcerting, because you're watching as Grog, in the middle of his rage, most of his attacks are amateur, far too wide away from the target, or by the time they get close, he is holding himself back. And you don't know why. Something is messing with his will and preventing him from being able to follow through with his attacks.
Travis: Okay. (sighs)
Matt: Second attack?
Travis: Second attack. I just want to touch him with my finger. Just, like, a boop.
Matt: Okay. You reach out and your finger touches his chest (cracking sound), and you feel--
Travis: He's real?! He's there?!
Matt: He's real. The skin's there.
Travis: Thought you might be a dragon. Wisdom saving throw?
Matt: That wasn't an attack.
Travis: Oh! I touched him!
Matt: You touched him.
Laura: Great job, Grog!
Marisha: We believe in you, Grog!
Liam: Okay, now ramp it up! (all laugh)
Matt: He smiles at you and goes, "And with gentleness there comes clarity."
Travis: (heavy breathing)
Sam: I think you're going to have to fuck him, Grog. (all laugh)
Matt: And that's your turn?
Travis: That's my turn.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: (quietly) What? With gentleness there comes--?
Matt: "With gentleness there comes clarity." And he smiles through his big, white-grey beard. And then the smile fades, his eyes flash, and he is going to attack you with a flurry of blows.
Laura: Oh no.
Travis: Wait, I haven't learned the lesson yet. I'm still--
Matt: The lesson's just begun.
Travis: Oh no.
Matt: All right, that is-- ooh. 33 to hit.
Travis: (squeaky voice) Mmm, yep.
Matt: That is a 24 to hit.
Travis: (squeaky voice) Yep.
Matt: That is a natural one. So that is a failure. And it's a 32 to hit, so he hits you three times.
Laura: Jeez Louise.
Matt: So you're raging, so you take half damage from these, because they're bludgeoning, since he's punching you.
Travis: Mmhmm.
Matt: His eyes flash, he rushes up and pummels you once in the chin, elbows you in the sternum, goes and grabs your shoulder and leaps over behind you and then kicks straight back into the middle of your shoulder blades and (pained gasp) you feel the breath almost get kicked out of you. That is 15 bludgeoning damage, halved to--
Travis: Seven?
Matt: We'll say eight.
Travis: Eight? Yeah.
Matt: That is nine, reduced to five, and that is 13 reduced to seven. There you go.
Travis: Oh shit, that's 20 points of damage. Cool.
Matt: That's his turn. You're up.
Travis: Uh, yeah. Sweet, sweet anus.
Marisha: That's a really good British candy.
Travis: What do monks do? Can I, like, use my magic powers? And I want to keep my eyes closed, and I'm gonna swing around behind me, knowing that I just got kicked in the back there.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make an attack with disadvantage.
Travis: Oh! No wisdom saving throw?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: With gentleness comes clarity. You touched him, maybe if you'd've shaken his hand.
Travis: With disadvantage?
Matt: With disadvantage, because you have your eyes closed.
Travis: Uh, 23.
Matt: That just barely hits. (all gasp)
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: (mumbling) Okay, with a ten.
Sam: So what did we learn from that?
Travis: I should've done it reckless. No, I don't want him rolling reckless, holy shit! God, I'll die in a second.
Marisha: His AC's 23.
Sam: No, that-- close your eyes-- or, how does this... what?
Liam: It might be touch.
Sam: I'm so confused.
Liam: You're unconscious.
Taliesin: You've got the touch.
Travis: That's 18 points of damage.
Matt: 18 points of damage, gotcha. That's your first strike (hitting sound). You feel the weapon behind you make contact with a form, and (cracking noise), you see a little bit of sand out of your peripheral this side go (scattering sound) as his form gets pushed about a foot, kind of setting some of it off.
Travis: So it goes (low hitting sound). I close my eyes again. I swing around the other way, and I try to connect.
Matt: Okay, roll again with disadvantage.
Travis: That's not bad. 14 and 20, uh... 29.
Matt: That hits, yes.
Travis: Yes, okay. Damn, same thing, so 18 points of damage.
Matt: 18 points of damage. All righty. As he takes both impacts, kind of parrying them with his forearms with each impact. They're still hitting him, and he's still taking the brunt of the attack and the pain, but with each hit you can feel the force of his forearm is almost stopping still the hammer blow as you're throwing it behind you, and you can see him gritting teeth with each impact, but he's just staring right at you again as you kind of spin around, open your eye again to see what you did. He kind of gives you a bit of a narrowed glare--
Travis: Stink eye?
Matt: Little bit of a stink eye.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: But like an intentional kind of connecting point and just says--
Travis: Pink eye?
Matt: No, that's a whole different-- that's a different monk path. (all laugh)
Laura: Like that little hobbit.
Travis: Be nice.
Matt: Let's see here.
Travis: I'm a student here.
Laura: What's the lesson? What's the lesson?!
Matt: Okay, he's going to go ahead and attack you twice. (punch sound) Two punches, straight to your back of your shoulders and neck as you're turning around to look at him. That is a 17, misses. No, that does hit.
Travis: That hits, yeah, it's my AC.
Matt: And a 23.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: So both hit you. That is... 16, so eight damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And that is ten, so five damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And he's going to spend three ki.
Travis: Three ki?!
Matt: Yeah, three ki points. So, the first punch hits you across the chin. The second one, he slams his fingers, curled up, right into your sternum as you turn around to face him (whack), and as it hits you, you feel these kind of vibrations, ripples, carry through your body, and then slowly fade inside. And you feel this tingling, this very faint, brief numbness that just kind of lingers throughout your body. You can feel it gathering at the edge of fingertips and toes, almost like ripples through a lake, and he steps away. You get to make an attack of opportunity if you'd like.
Travis: (strained) I would.
Matt: Don't forget, you can use your reaction to get an attack back because of your retaliation ability.
Travis: Yeah, I've totally forgotten that, I'm just totally stunned at this point. That's good, that's 32.
Matt: 32 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: (sing-songy noises) That's a ten.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: All these sounds are in game, in character.
Travis: So 20, 25.
Laura: (gibberish)
Liam: (gibberish)
Marisha: (laughs) When Grog becomes Popeye.
Matt: All righty, and he just stands across the way, and just kind of beckons you towards him. Your turn.
Travis: And I feel all shake-weighty at the moment, right?
Matt: Yeah. You're not quite sure. You don't feel bad, it's just this kind of uneasiness in your body.
Travis: Can I take a step towards him?
Matt: Mm-hm, take a step forward.
Travis: Does anything happen? Do I shit my pants?
Matt: Nope. (all laugh)
Matt: Not yet.
Travis: Can I take the other four steps of the five step exploding heart point technique thing?
Matt: Seems fine.
Travis: Cool.
Marisha: What would you have done if you shat your pants on that fifth step?
Laura: Oh my god, that would have been amazing.
Travis: Just explosive shat. I'd be, like, kill me now. Kill me now, take it away.
Marisha: Just lost your bowels.
Matt: (laughs) I'd have to bring out the cone template for that.
Marisha: Like a very dedicated marathon runner.
Laura: (laughs) Area of effect?
Travis: Can I close the rest of the distance to him?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: I want to try the bear hug again. I want to grapple him.
Matt: Okay. So, go ahead. And I think it's your athletics versus his--
Travis: So I can touch him now.
Matt: (mumbling) Acrobatics, I'm pretty sure.
Travis: The wisdom saving throw was something in the beginning.
Laura: Yeah, I think it was, you have to shake his hand or do something, like, gentle to him.
Liam: I like the idea that it's silent in here and we're just hearing sand get kicked around and Grog breathing like a bull.
Laura: I like to think that Earthbreaker Groon has, like, mood music for his fights.
Marisha: Agreed, yeah.
Travis: There's frustrated grunts happening.
Laura: He's got a sound system.
Matt: So, make an athletics check.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: Like war drums, yeah.
Taliesin: Like taiko. (low drum sounds)
Laura: Ooh! That'd be sick.
Marisha: (joins in on the drum sounds) Totally.
Travis: 24. Plus 16 plus eight.
Matt: Yeah, okay, so you go to grab him and he just (fwish) slips out.
Travis: Damn. My athletics versus his? Judo?
Matt: He just kind of like parries it to the side, ducks under and rights himself, just out of your grasp.
Travis: Cool, that was nice. Do I have a second attack?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Two-handed great weapon master, please.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Travis: That's not going to hit. 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: Oh, it does?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Oh, 23, that's right.
Liam: 23 was the threshold.
Travis: Thank you, god. No it doesn't, 24 minus five.
Matt: Oh, minus five. So, as you go to swing, both of your hands on the hammer, (grunts) giant downward arc. As it slams downward, you see his form (whoosh) shift, and suddenly he's two feet to the right. He moved so fast with the side step, and you slam it down into the sand. You guys watch as this crater emerges (boom), and the sand shoots off the sides from the impact of Grog's blow on the ground. Groon seemingly unaffected.
Travis: That ends my--
Matt: You're not frenzied yet, right?
Travis: Nope. That ends my turn. Yep.
Matt: Okay. At the end of your turn, he's going to go ahead and make an unarmed attack on you.
Travis: Unarmed attack?
Matt: That's just his punch as a part of his legendary action here. That is a 27 to hit.
Travis: Oh, that hits.
Matt: You suffer another ten points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to five.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Now it's Groon's turn.
Taliesin: Two lair actions.
Matt: He's gonna go ahead and make another series of attacks on you. That is an 18?
Travis: Yeah, that hits.
Matt: 17.
Travis: Hits, also.
Matt: All right. So that is nine plus eight. That'd be 17. So, say nine points of bludgeoning.
Travis: Nine?
Matt: And then--ooh! 18. So another nine points of bludgeoning damage. I need you to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: Damn, Gina.
Liam: Nice pull.
Sam: I don't get it.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21, okay. As his first hit is a long round haymaker punch across the chin, he comes from underneath and goes for an uppercut that hits you right in the jaw. Right at the side where usually it would snap and really mess with somebody's ability to stay either conscious or control their atmosphere. You just manage to maneuver out of the way where it hurts, but the impact doesn't hit its intended place, and you resist the effect.
Travis: What was the effect?
Matt: You don't know.
Travis: God damn it.
Sam: Diarrhea.
Laura: Instant knockout.
Travis: I'll shit my pants before this fight is over with.
Laura: The button.
Travis: On the button?
Laura: It's the button.
Travis: It's the brown note.
Matt: It's your turn.
Travis: My turn. I am so tired of this slippery shit. I go into a frenzied rage!
Matt: Okay. (unenthused cheering)
Travis: Yeah, thank you. I would like to Great Weapon Master try to hit him with the Dwarven Thrower.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Not reckless. No. (crying) I don't know what the lesson is. 32 minus five is 37.
Matt: 27?
Travis: 27!
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Yeah. 32 minus five is 37! 35.
Matt: Okay. This one cracks him right across the side of his shoulder and pec area (wham), and you watch as for the first time since this battle started, he loses his footing, and he has to catch himself behind. His head looks back and he turns around towards you and a big smile goes across his face as he goes, "Good. Keep showing me."
Travis: I was encouraged until he got creepy with the talking.
Laura: Maybe he just likes getting hit.
Travis: All right, I hit him again!
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: That's gonna hit. That's a 31 minus five is 26.
Matt: Yeah, go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: 22... 32.
Matt: 32. Nice.
Laura: He's got like 5,000 hit points. More than last time.
Travis: Last one. Reckless.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: (gasps)
Travis: What's life without a little spice?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: Ask him.
Travis: 18, not quite. 34 minus--29.
Matt: That hits, yeah.
Travis: Yeah. Close to what I wanted. This is 33.
Matt: Okay, cool. All right, so, as you unleash your next series of blows against him, you saw him topple from the first hit. The other two, he pulls his arms in and takes them, one to the shoulder, and the other one hits him in the stomach (air getting knocked out) and he grabs your arm, and pushes off. Jumps in the air and lands about five feet from you.
Travis: Is he bruised? Is there a slap mark? I mean, is there any blood? Anything to tell me that I might be doing a good job?
Matt: He looks, more so than the previous fight that you had with him, it looks like he's starting to take some hits.
Travis: Good! Yeah.
Matt: He's gonna use Legendary Action to take a hit on you.
Liam: A Legendary Action?
Matt: That is a 30.
Travis: (squeaks) Hits.
Matt: Actually it's with advantage because--
Travis: Yep.
Matt: So that is another nine points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Sweet.
Matt: Not halved. That is what it is halved.
Travis: Okay. Because it's legendary--
Matt: Because it would be 18, yeah.
Travis: Right.
Matt: Okay. His turn. He slowly walks around you. And says, "Your size is useful for those who know not how to use it against you." And he rushes down, beneath your large standing form, and goes into a series of strikes against the inside of your knees and your legs and we'll see how the last blow hits.
Travis: I've been forgetting to roll my enlarged damage.
Matt: That's a 30 on the first hit.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: That is a 21 on the second hit.
Travis: (high pitched) Yeah, sure.
Matt: That is a 29 on the third hit.
Travis: (laughs) How many hits are there?!
Laura: Four.
Matt: And natural 20 on the fourth.
Liam: Natural 20 to the gooch.
Laura: To the chode hit?!
Travis: Wow, had to Reckless, huh?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Cool.
Travis: Vegas is a short trip this time.
Matt: So that is 18 reduced to half; that's nine.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: 14 reduced in half is seven.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: That is a nine reduced in half is five.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And final strike is a 20. Reduced in half, that is ten.
Travis: Can I use my Stone's Endurance on that last one?
Matt: Sure! Go for it.
Travis: All right.
Laura: Nice.
Travis: That's 12. Plus my constitution, which is five, so 17.
Matt: And I would like you to make another constitution save.
Travis: Shit! So do I add 17 hit points back?
Matt: No, you reduce the attack, which was 10 damage?
Travis: Yeah, so just wipe it out?
Matt: Yeah, it does none.
Travis: Okay, cool. I'm getting down there.
Laura: Really?
Sam: He's down to triple digits now.
Travis: Constitution saving throw. 18.
Matt: 18.
Travis: Ten plus ten minus two is 18.
Matt: Okay. You feel from that impact, all of your muscles seize up. He goes for the same strike zone on the other side of the chin and hits and you kind of (groans) as you pull back. And then, feel all of a sudden this pulse (throbbing sound). The pulse (louder throbbing sound) and all your muscles tense up. You're stunned until the end of your next turn.
Travis: Shit! (laughs)
Laura: What does being stunned do? You can't move?
Matt: Can't move, can't do anything, you're considered incapacitated.
Travis: He Vulcan Pinched my ass.
Liam: Groon's in Vegas and your ass just came up pineapples.
Liam: (slot machine ringing)
Travis: (slot machine ringing)
Laura: I'm gonna pull an arrow out and just stand there and get ready in case Groon does anything.
Matt: Okay. Groon is thinking to go ahead and step back to there.
Travis: What?
Matt: Which would be there.
Laura: He's waiting for you to become unstunned.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And as he darts back, you guys watch as he runs to the back. As he does, his feet barely touch the sand (fast, light footsteps). You see these very faint little plumes behind each footstep, as this giant man has almost no weight across the ground--
Travis: Like a jackrabbit.
Matt: --as he runs with such speed. And as he lands and finds his footing (loud boom), the weight seems to kick in once more, and you watch as the sand (scattering sound) shoots out behind him. He stands his ground and crosses his arms, and just watches. So Grog, it's your turn. You're stunned. You end your turn, you're no longer stunned. It's now back to him.
Travis: (whispers) Fuck.
Matt: He puts his hand up. Puts it up towards you.
Sam: Oh, no.
Matt: Closes his fingers
Travis: Oh, no, I've seen this before.
Matt: And you feel this (pulse) in your chest, right in the sternum right where he hit you earlier. I need you to go ahead and roll a constitution saving throw again.
Travis: 23 minus two, 21?
Sam: Ooh?
Matt: 21!
Sam: Ooh!
Travis: Constitution I have a lot of. For my saving throws.
Matt: That (pulse) sound ripples out (rapid impacts) and you feel the muscles begin to tear, the ligaments begin to burn from the inside. You manage to, through the sheer force of physical constitution, shrug off what would've been immensely more deadly circumstance, but you still do take 10d10 necrotic damage. (everyone groans)
Sam: It would've been 20d10?
Matt: No, you would've dropped to zero hit points.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: Is that the palm thing?
Marisha: Quivering Palm?
Matt: It's the Quivering Palm. He's not holding back this time.
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: Oh, I mean, don't make any special exceptions on my part. Fuck.
Liam: Vax is watching; he just leaked a little bit.
Laura: Gross!
Matt: 18... 26.
Sam: (whispers) Quivering Palm...
Laura: No one will ever notice, the armor already stinks.
Matt: Take 51 points of necrotic damage.
Travis: 52?
Matt: 51 points of necrotic damage.
Travis: 51. Okay.
Laura: How much damage?
Matt: 51 points of necrotic damage.
Travis: I'm out of the triple digits guys.
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: Oh, man.
Laura: Does Grog look all bloody yet, or is he--
Matt: You guys watch as Grog is standing there, his body shakes and shimmers, and you watch various veins that usually bulge in his rage and enhance blood flow of his combat just (bursts and splatters) bursts in places. And blood just seems to spray out of him from multiple positions on his body. And you see the blood now leaking all over him. He's just covered in his own crimson. He slowly turns around, prepares himself for the next round of combat.
Liam: That is some North Star shit.
Marisha: Oh, my god.
Taliesin: Nice.
Travis: Yeah. Yeah. Okay. (exhales) Good deal. Tight. Wow, distance doesn't help. Okay.
Laura: Can you talk to him? (louder) Can you talk to him?
Travis: I just look up, covered like Carrie, in the movie. Just dripping with fake blood.
Laura: Never mind! You're doing great, Grog! Keep going. (whispers) He looks like shit.
Marisha: (whispers) He does.
Sam: Sometimes music calms the savage beast. You could sing to him.
Travis: I would try Intimidating Presence, but he'll just shrug it off because he's amazing.
Liam: It's fine, it looks like he's going to rally. Here it comes.
Travis: I just take off straight for him.
Matt: Okay, you turn around--(counting) You just get into melee with him.
Travis: Cool. Awesome. I am going to take all three attacks at Great Weapon Master at him. NOT Reckless.
Matt: Okay! Go and make your attacks at disadvantage.
Laura: Why?!
Travis: Why?!
Travis: Because I'm covered in blood?
Matt: No. Because he used his Patient Defense.
Sam: Patient Defense.
Matt: Essentially with each blow that you--
Laura: Oh, that's fun.
Matt: --swing towards him, he's just prepared himself from a defensive position, to prepare himself. And he's using your own momentum against you to sway every attack away from him. So make all of your attacks at disadvantage.
Travis: So that's pretty smart. I threw that literally into the holder and it was on an edge. Shit. That's a natural 20 that's going to be replaced by a not as great (inhales sharply). 23 minus five. So, it'll be a dud.
Matt: Nope. So the first blow swings wide. He grabs the actual side of the hammer with both hands and just (whooshes) throws it off to the side.
Travis: Okay, okay. 31 minus five. 26.
Sam: Ooh.
Matt: 26. He attempts to parry this one, however, your sheer force of strength manages to push past his grasp, and you bring the hammer down towards his clavicle. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: (exhales) Oh, thank god. (high pitched) I like it when I hit them. (normal voice) That's 28 plus enlarge. Which I've been forgetting. 20.
Matt: 20!
Laura: 18 and 10? Because of your--
Travis: 18 plus 10 for Great Weapon Master. 28. 30.
Laura: 30? You said 20.
Travis: I said 20 I meant 30.
Laura: It's 30.
Matt: You mean 30.
Travis: My apologies. He is hitting me really, really hard.
Laura: Yeah. And your brain is already so little.
Travis: It's actually large, it just doesn't do much.
Matt: And if you're using your bonus action, you can get one more strike in.
Travis: I would like to. At disadvantage.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: That's a one.
Matt: Nope. So, the second one does hit the clavicle, and it cracks and he (grunts). You see a little bit of blood spill out the corner of his mouth down his chin. And he looks up at you, and for a second there, the whites of his eyes seem to almost dim ever so slightly into a moment of humanity you haven't seen in him yet. He's been this godlike entity and this is the first point where you see that pain show just a hint of any sort of weakening. And he kinda looks right up into you. "Good. Good." And as you go for your third strike he literally puts up his hand and (heavy impact) catches the hammer in place.
Travis: Oh, god, it's so awesome!
Matt: He just holds it there as he stares at you.
Travis: (groans) Yeah, I'm checking reflexes.
Matt: Good.
Travis: I want you to know I'm not afraid to go down.
Matt: That is the first lesson. Let's see if your words can be put into practice.
Travis: Oh shit.
Marisha: Good night!
Laura: No! No!
Marisha: We'll see you in the morning, sleep well friends.
Travis: I hope you get a popcorn kernel in your teeth.
Matt: He is going to, let's see...
Liam: Go Cobra Kai on your ass.
Taliesin: Cobra Kai.
Travis: Sweep the leg, Johnny!
Taliesin: Never dies.
Liam: Put him in a bodybag!
Matt: Yeah, he's going to go into a flurry of blows against you. That's a natural 20.
Travis: (groans)
Matt: That is a 18?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: That is a 26.
Travis: Okay, all hit!
Matt: Yeah, those all hit, okay. So the first one is 18, reduced to half, is nine.
Travis: Nine, okay.
Matt: That is a nine, reduced to half, five.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: That is a 12 reduced to six.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And that is a 13 reduced to seven.
Travis: Sweet. Real excited.
Matt: And he's just going to go ahead and rotate around you to the opposite side. As he turns around (punch sounds), hitting you as he goes with each hit.
Travis: (grunts, spurting blood noise)
Matt: I need you to go ahead and make a strength saving throw. You have advantage on these because you're raging.
Travis: Yeah, I know. But I still have minus two to them.
Matt: This is true.
Laura: Minus two?
Liam: It's going to knock the beard off your face.
Travis: That's better. 23 minus two, 21.
Matt: 21, okay, yeah. So, the last blow, as he comes round (punch noise), does a roundhouse kick and brings back and goes for a huge double-fisted kind of earth-side punch into your torso.
Travis: Not the double fist!
Matt: It's about to push you backward, but you dig in your feet (grunts) and resist it and hold your place.
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: Look who's catching who now.
Matt: Now it's your turn.
Travis: He didn't have a quip back for me, okay. Right. I would like to turn so I'm facing him.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I want to pick him up and try and bodyslam him.
Matt: Okay! Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: Okay. 24.
Matt: No, that's a 30 acrobatics. (everyone gasps)
Matt: You go to grab, and he steps back with his arms still crossed, leaps onto your hands as you reach out for him, and just jumps in the air, looks down at you before he comes landing right on top of your hands (bam), forcing your fists into the dirt. What are you going to do for your next attack?
Travis: I almost drop out of my rage because that was a real dick move, just dunking on me.
Laura: He's jumping and crossing his arms--
Travis: He did the Kill Bill on my hands. I want to try one more time.
Matt: All right, roll again.
Travis: 20.
Matt: Remember, you have advantage on these because you're raging.
Travis: It doesn't matter.
Matt: Okay, that's a 24 acrobatics. As you pull your hands up out of the dirt reaching out for him with these giant Titanstone gauntlet-encrusted fingers (groans), and the sand burst goes upwards, you reach, and find nothing but sand. And as the sand fades, he uses his-- Is this the end of your turn, because you still have a bonus action.
Travis: I still have a third one, yeah.
Matt: Okay, so as the sand is still cascading, now you can see his shape through it, what are you doing with your third strike?
Travis: I just want to try and grab a hold of the slippery bastard.
Matt: Okay, one more time.
Travis: Yeah. Strength, advantage or just natural roll?
Matt: Advantage on your athletics.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: God, it probably looks like he's running in circles to us.
Travis: 26.
Matt: He only rolled 24.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: With the sand there, kind of coming down from the impact of you pulling your fists out, you reach out and finally they find purchase on the sides of his arms. And doing so, you (boom) pull him in, and grasp him right to your chest. The hammer still clutched in your right hand, and you watch as he (grunts) gets pulled in now, and he is firmly in your grasp, he is currently grappled.
Travis: Cool. I don't say anything, I'm just really stoked that I actually got him. (everyone laughs)
Travis: I'm like, take a picture! Whatever that is!
Laura: Draw it! Draw it! Quick, Percy! Should I flash him? Should I flash him?
Taliesin: It couldn't hurt.
Matt: You want to make this into a bodyslam?
Travis: Could I? MARISHA Couldn't hurt the rest of us, either!
Matt: I'll let you, sure. Okay.
Travis: I was thinking initially I'd like to remove one of his five hits that he takes on me, but, four, who gives a shit.
Matt: We'll say for the purposes of this, since your intent was to bodyslam him, go ahead and roll an attack with disadvantage.
Travis: Okay, attack with disadvantage. That's not that great. Oh, regular attack!
Matt: It's without your weapon bonus. It's minus 3.
Travis: Yeah, 22.
Matt: 22. You grab him and you lift, and it's like he's anchored to the ground. He's much smaller than you, and you can lift things far larger and denser than him, but for some reason, he won't budge an inch. He's just staring up at you, with his arms pressed to his sides.
Marisha: I want to learn that trick.
Travis: I've still got him grappled at least. That's it.
Matt: All right.
Laura: You have to be crouched down in order to be grappling him?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: It's like the possum trick.
Travis: Let's just assume that I picked him up. I'm just holding him grappled. Or am I squatting?
Matt: You're squatting down and grappling him. You went to lift him up but (grunts) he wouldn't budge.
Travis: Hugging Santa's little helper.
Liam: He's friggin third Hokage, man. He's not going anywhere.
Matt: As you're holding him, he closes his eyes.
Travis: He closes his eyes?
Matt: And you watch as this kind of warm orange-ish white energy begins to just emanate--
Laura: (gasps) He's going super saiyan!
Matt: --from various parts in his body. Just here, in the middle of the forehead a little glimmer opens here, a little glimmer in the shoulder--
Marisha: He's over 9000!
Matt: --his various chakra points begin to glow. And you watch as many of the bruises and bludgeons that you put upon his body, and cuts begin to heal up.
Laura: Shit.
Liam: I want to be at level 21.
Sam: That's 20 more levels.
Liam: Four more years of this.
Matt: (laughs) And he can't move, he's currently grappled. All right, so that's his turn. You go ahead.
Travis: I still have him grappled?
Matt: You still have him grappled.
Travis: I still want to try to get him to the ground. I want to try and get him prone. Can I try a leg wrap, so I'm gonna wrap my right leg around his, and dive forward. Trying to push him off-balance on to his back.
Matt: I'll say go ahead and make another athletics check.
Travis: Okay. 24.
Matt: 24, he got a 21. So we'll say for this, you go ahead, you'll be releasing the grapple, but you slam him on the ground and make him prone. So you manage to just (grunts) rip him off of whatever weird center of gravity he's forced himself into, lift him over your head, and just pile-drive him into the ground.
Travis: Great.
Matt: (boom) Once again, you see sand and dust kick up, and then you see these two legs sticking up as you've basically planted him in the ground like a carrot. And he is currently prone on the ground, yes.
Travis: Great! When he's prone, do I get advantage on attacks?
Matt: When he is prone, attack rolls against the creature have advantage if you're within five feet, so yes you do.
Travis: Great. Great Weapon Master, dwarven thrower, and I say I want to know the answer to the lesson! (everyone laughs)
Travis: 29 minus five, 24?
Matt: 24, that hits.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Get him, big man!
Marisha: Give him the chair!
Travis: 35.
Matt: 35.
Travis: Plus the enlarge damage.
Matt: Nice! Okay, that's your second attack.
Travis: Uh, 28 minus five, 23.
Matt: 23 just hits.
Travis: 9, 24, 34, 38.
Matt: 38, oof! All righty. So as you're shouting this the first blow comes down (whack), you're not even seeing him or seeing the impact, all you're seeing is sand and fury. The second and final blow, you bring up, and as you bring it down you feel something (crack) crack underneath. And you watch as you pull the hammer up again, he pushes off, and he's gonna actually use it at the end of your turn-- are you going to move?
Travis: (laughs)
Matt: It's up to you, you can stay where you are.
Travis: No, I would be right there, just entranced that he's actually in the ground.
Matt: Okay. So at the end of your turn he's going to go ahead and use a legendary action to attack you.
Travis: I meant 'I run'!
Matt: It's a 30. So it hits you. All right, that's 18, halved to nine, take nine points of damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And I need you to make another constitution saving throw.
Travis: Okay. Natural 20!
Matt: Sick, okay! As you pull up from the hammer, you can see now, there's quite a bit of blood now out of his mouth, and there's a part of the chest where it's pushed in, and you can see where the impact has caused heavy bruising and parts of the skin have broken open from impact. So now he's bleeding in places. You're bleeding all over the place.
Travis: Yeah, yeah!
Matt: So it's just this mess of two somewhat dressed humanoid men covered in their own blood. It's delightful.
Travis: And blood and sand.
Matt: Yeah, blood and sand. It's encrusted everywhere.
Marisha: Be careful, that's how blood diseases are transferred!
Taliesin: Very filthy.
Marisha: Be careful!
Sam: Sepsis!
Matt: He pushes off and manages to hit you in the sternum once again, the same place where the vibrations hit. However this time you grab his hand as it gets there, and it still hits you, but the gauntlets absorb the impact and prevent it from spreading through your body. That ends your turn. It's now his turn. He stands up from prone.
Travis: Goddamn, he did that to me on my turn.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: (laughing) That's fucked up. (everyone laughs)
Travis: Holy shit. Natural 20 on my turn, saved my life.
Matt: Okay, he's going to go ahead and hit you twice (punch sounds). That is an 18?
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And a 20. So yeah, so the first one--I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And you take 14 reduced to half, seven points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Uh, 13 on my constitution saving throw.
Matt: 13.
Travis: What was the damage? I'm sorry.
Matt: Seven.
Travis: Seven.
Matt: You feel your muscles lock up once more, and you're stunned now.
Travis: Awesome.
Matt: That allows his attack, and since you are stunned, attacks against you have advantage, and you are incapacitated, so hits that are against you are technically all crits.
Travis: Oh, fuck!
Matt: So the next hit that went against you is six plus eight--
Travis: Can I smile before he hits me?
Matt: Sure, you go. So you feel as your body locks up, the next hit (whack) goes right into the same place where he keeps hitting you in the sternum. You can feel the bruising, now you hear the (crack) crack inward as you feel the cartilage there pop inward. That's the second hit. He goes in for two more strikes now as you're stunned. (whoof) The next one, the third one, that's going to be a 27? That is eight plus eight, you take eight damage because it's halved. So take eight bludgeoning damage. And his final hit, that is going to be a 30. That is going to be a 6, 12, 20, reduce that to ten bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Cool! Great!
Liam: Still standing.
Travis: My math is probably wrong but I'm getting down there.
Matt: Okay. He's going to stand right there. Your turn.
Travis: He is.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: What are you going to do?
Travis: Did he just stand there, and he had a turn?
Matt: He just went. He got up from prone, that's half his movement, and he's not going to move around you, he's staying right where he is. What do you do?
Marisha: Show him what you've learned! None of us know what you learned though! We can't help you!
Travis: I feel like he's doing that Patient Defense thing again. Yeah, fuck it. I'm going to go for broke. Because we're pretty close anyway. I'm gonna make all three attacks reckless, Great Weapon Master.
Matt: Okay! Go for it.
Liam: Tripling down on the barbarian.
Travis: (laughing) I don't know any better, I don't know.
Matt: Oh no, actually, you're stunned this turn.
Travis: Oh!
Matt: I just remembered that.
Laura: Fuck!
Matt: So, you grin, and then (grunts) your body just won't respond.
Travis: Is there a small fart at least?
Liam: (high-pitched fart noise)
Matt: It's about that.
Travis: Yep. It's not even like something to be proud of. Just a little squeaker.
Laura: Oh, did you just poop your pants?
Liam: You turtle a little bit?
Travis: (Scottish accent) A little turtle head poking out. (Normal voice) So I'm stunned--
Matt: You're stunned until the end of your turn. Your turn ends, at the end of your turn he's going to use one of his legendary actions to use Like The Wind, and he gets to move his speed without attacks of opportunity.
Laura: What does he want from you?
Taliesin: For you to show him what you learned.
Matt: He just (whoosh) slips back and he's on the opposite side, and just goes.
Travis: Cool. I look back, and do this.
Sam: Ooh! He learned to be a dick! (everyone laughs)
Matt: That's your turn?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. He begins to rotate. Over there... and that's his turn.
Sam: You have a healing--
Marisha: Everyone is doing their Keanu impressions.
Travis: I have no healing anythings.
Sam: Awesome.
Travis: I do if I short rest, but that's it. All right--
Sam: Ooh, take one.
Liam: I do to Keyleth.
Travis: How far can I throw this fucking thing? Long range of 60 feet. The long range of 60 feet means that it would be a disadvantage throw?
Matt: Correct.
Travis: That's not great.
Matt: Short range is 20?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Just get up within 20 feet of him.
Travis: Yeah, let's be honest. Could I get to him in 50 feet?
Matt: You wanna try?
Travis: Yeah, I'd like to try.
Matt: (counting) You just barely get up to him.
Travis: God! I just wanna keep staring back at him but I don't-- There's no point to it. I can't do anything. It's not like I can psych him out or--
Laura: Tell him what you learned! (all laugh)
Matt: What are you gonna do?
Sam: Vague words of encouragement! (all laugh)
Travis: Yeah, going for broke again. Reckless, great weapon master, all three.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: You have disadvantage on them because of his Patient Defense, so they're just straight rolls.
Travis: Spatial-- Patient Defense.
Matt: Patient Defense, yes.
Travis: Also known as spatial defense in the barbarian world.
Laura: Totally. (gasps)
Travis: Natural 20.
Marisha: Ooh.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Just two more of those, please.
Travis: So I double the damage die-- or I roll two more damage dice after this.
Laura: Are you supposed to roll 10's or 12's?
Matt: 10's for the hammer.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: 42.
Matt: 42 points of damage on the first one, ooh.
Laura: (quietly) That's good, that's good.
Travis: Second one.
Matt: Second attack.
Travis: That's a 31 minus five, 26?
Matt: 26 hits.
Travis: (counting) 35.
Matt: 35 points of damage?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Oof.
Travis: Last one.
Laura: (clap)
Sam: (clap)
Marisha: (clap)
Matt: Last attack.
Travis: I'm buying a ticket to the no pants dance after this. 20, 22.
Matt: 22, no.
Laura: (groan)
Travis: Oh no no, that's not minus five-- it is minus five.
Matt: Yeah, it is minus five. So, you go bounding up towards him (boom boom boom). He just sits there waiting, his arms up. The first strike, he goes to parry but as you hit (crack), his arm gets knocked out of the way, preventing him from parrying the second strike as it comes down right across the side of the face (boof), hitting him, you watch as blood (splattering sound) across the sand and you see his jaw's kinda momentarily dislodged, his beard just kinda crusted in his own blood. As you come up with a giant over-the-head blow and as it comes down, he (crack) slaps it from both sides and stops it mid-action. You see his hands shaking as he's holding it, and he just kinda looks up in your face, "Good. Good."
Travis: You keep saying that!
Liam: That was so metal.
Matt: It's now his turn. As he throws the hammer back over your head, which puts you off-balance, he's gonna go into his first two strikes. The first one is a 21 to hit?
Travis: (strained) Yes, I believe that hits.
Matt: That is gonna be ten, reduced to five.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Second one, uh-- on the first one, I need you to make another constitution saving throw.
Travis: Okay, same damage?
Matt: Same damage, yeah.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: But he's gonna do--
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23.
Travis: Nope, 21.
Matt: 21, that's right, yeah. So you manage to resist, the effect of the stunning strike. He's gonna go for the secondary attack.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Which was seven plus 13, it's 20, so that still hits you.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: You take 18, reduce that to nine.
Travis: Oof (laughs).
Matt: Make another constitution saving throw.
Travis: Cool (laughs). We in the single digits, kids. (all gasp)
Marisha: (quietly) No.
Travis: 22 minus two is 20.
Matt: 20, you just barely shrug off the effect of the stunning strike. (all sigh in relief)
Sam: Clutch.
Matt: He is gonna go in for his flurry of blows 'cause he knows you're on the edge.
Laura: No!
Matt: He knows you're on the edge.
Sam: He just has to miss four.
Travis: Yeah, yeah.
Matt: That's a natural 20. (all gasp)
Marisha: No.
Travis: (laughs)
Sam: Just has to miss three.
Matt: That is 16 plus 8, that is 24 points of damage reduced to half to 12.
Travis: I am unconscious, but! I use my relentless rage.
Sam: (growls)
Matt: Right! Oh shit, okay.
Marisha: You're coming back.
Matt: I forgot about that.
Travis: Which, it's a flurry of blows, and he only did it on the first one. (all laugh)
Travis: So, I'm like (long groan, rewind noise) Oh shit! (long groan). (all laugh)
Matt: Well, you need to make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: I do, yes.
Matt: The DC of 10.
Travis: I do.
Marisha: C'mon.
Sam: Phillip!
Travis: If I can't make a DC of 10, I don't know.
Laura: Go Phillip!
Liam: Phil!
Travis: Uh, 21.
Matt: Okay, so the third hit, the first couple just kinda loosen you up (pop pop)--
Travis: This is gonna get interesting.
Matt: The third hit, he leaps in the air, kinda Troy style (whack) and hits you right square in the face--
Laura: Superman punch!
Matt: -- up in the air and (ringing punch sound) you kinda pull back as you feel your vision begin to darken, and then you feel that surge of white hot rage in the back of your skull (crack) bring you back, and you (grunt) pull back up as he lands, and you watch as his expression goes (huff) and he darts downward and goes for a low to high ground uppercut dragon punch style.
Liam: Look out, Guile, look out.
Marisha: Oh god.
Matt: That's gonna-- oh, that's an 18 plus 13, that's a 31. (all groan)
Matt: You take nine points, reduced to five.
Travis: (electronic shut down noise)
Laura: No! (all laugh)
Matt: (boom) Hits you right underneath the chin, now make--
Travis: However, I use my relentless rage, now at a DC 15.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Whaat?
Laura: Ooh, shit.
Marisha: Come on, come on.
Laura: C'mon, c'mon, c'mon, c'mon, c'mon.
Liam: Game that system, do it.
Sam: Come on, come on.
Liam: Pull out a squeaker, Travis, c'mon.
Travis: 27.
Sam: Ohh!
Marisha: (claps)
Laura: (cackles)
Matt: 27. As it knocks you into the air, almost onto your feet but you manage to catch yourself and (groans) right back up as he lands (cracks) turns around and looks at you and goes,
Travis: Good?
Matt: "I see what you've learned." (all laugh)
Matt: It's your turn.
Travis: It's my turn?
Matt: It's your turn.
Sam: Kill him.
Travis: All three, reckless, great weapon master! Chewing my tongue off while I do it! (all laugh)
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: (deep voice) Show me what you've learned.
Travis: (deep voice) Show me--
Marisha: (deep voice) Show me--
Travis: 29 minus five, 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: Yep. So the first one is... 23, 33, 34. 34 points of damage, first one.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Second one, nine, damn it.
Taliesin: (high-pitched groan)
Marisha: (whispering) Kill him.
Laura: 22.
Travis: No, but it's minus five so it's 20.
Matt: 20.
Travis: Misses.
Matt: So the first one hits (whack), it hits him in the side of the head, the other side, it rights his jaw strangely but knocks him down onto three points. He's down on his hand and his two knees in the ground, his other arm's still up, clenched in a fist. He's breathing heavily, like he's on the edge.
Travis: Oh.
Matt: Second strike, you go--
Laura: Get him, Grog!
Matt: -- to swing down and he rolls out of the way (fwish, crack), hits the ground with no effect. You're going for your third and final strike.
Travis: I am, yeah.
Matt: Go for it
Marisha: Come on, come on.
Laura: C'mon, c'mon, c'mon.
Travis: (strained) That's pretty good. That's a 30, minus five is 25.
Matt: 25 hits. Roll damage. (all cheer)
Marisha: Come on, come on.
Travis: Fuck you, Master Splinter.
Liam: Oh man, Vax is just--
Travis: Yeah, I haven't forgotten it now--
Liam: -- perched on the wall, pulling feathers out.
Travis: -- 23, 33, 37.
Laura: Oh!
Matt: Okay, how do you want to do this? (all cheer and clap)
Liam: That was Vox Machina's real reaction.
Travis: Okay, so the first one hits, right?
Matt: The first one hits, the second one, he rolls out of the way and you pull back--
Travis: Right, I reach back for the third one and I go, who's good now? (whack)
Matt: (crack) You guys watch as he knocks him clean 15 feet in the air from the blast of the blow. He ends up landing on top and the outside--
Travis: Yes! (laughs)
Matt: -- of the arena (boom) landing strewn across the steps that lead to the edge of the sand pit, and there's just quiet in the chamber.
Travis: (heavy breathing)
Matt: As he stands there breathing heavily, covered in blood. There's spatters of blood all across the sand and Groon's just lying there, unconscious, breathing.
Laura: We're just screaming our asses off.
Matt: You guys are yelling.
Marisha: Aaaah!
Travis: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Stay there.
Laura: What?
Matt: At this point, there's the opening at the top of the temple.
Travis: Right.
Matt: There's... a rumbling sound, a (rumble), from up above. And there's a small spark of energy that (cracks) up above, (cracks) streaks down and hits Groon--
Laura: (gasp)
Marisha: (gasp)
Matt: -- like a very faint lightning bolt, just (pfft) out of the sky and Groon rises up on the side, his eyes just vibrant bright, almost glowing, and he stands back up, and he's still covered in his own blood, he's wrecked. You can see parts of his body where the muscle is swollen, one arm appears to be almost ruined, but he lands right in front of you.
Travis: Little bit of pee comes out.
Marisha: Uh-huh.
Laura: (laughs) Everybody's peeing.
Liam: Join the party.
Matt: "You've learned much... and Kord smiles upon you." As you look up and you hear the roiling again, and two bolts come streaming out of the top of the temple down towards Grog. And slamming into your body, you instinctually pull down and hunker, as an animal in a thunderstorm would, but you feel the warmth as your gauntlets all of a sudden flash with electrical energy. And you look down as the runes on all the sides, and the chains are now glowing with divine energy.
Sam: You're a magician!
Travis: Awesome!
Matt: As the roiling kinda comes to a close you hear the (thunder noises) of thunder begin to subside, and you feel the smell of burnt sky and ozone around you begin to subside, still looking down at the energy pulsing through the gauntlets. Groon is still standing there, looking up at you, and just goes: "Continue with your journey." And just looks at you, waiting for some kind of response.
Travis: I walk over to him. I bow. And then I reach out one of the Titanstone Knuckles. Kord's strength to you.
Matt: And (slamming noise) slams and pulls you in, and with an intensity you feel his fingers crack, even through these newly-imbued gauntlets you feel the tension as his grip is still, strangely... You expect he could be powerful enough to crush the gauntlet with his bare fingers. He just pulls you in from your giant form. The strength is immense and you (grunt) kinda pull down into his form. He looks you straight up, face to face, but an inch away. "What have you learned?"
Travis: That without the love of my friends, life has no meaning, and I would be nothing.
Matt: And how will you utilize this knowledge?
Travis: I will make their strength mine, and my strength their own, and in turn, I will try to make the world a better place than I found it.
Matt: His grip pulls off, and he withdraws his arm, and he releases you back to your full standing pose. Now, at your enlarged form, gargantuan in the center of this temple space, his once very intimidating form, diminutive by comparison to Grog's full structure, looks up and nods. "I thank you."
Travis: I mean, I really-- I thank you. (all laugh)
Travis: I've never gone that far in a battle before. I didn't even know that was possible. This was incredible. I'm talking a lot, aren't I? I have a bit of a man crush--
Matt: Yes. Yes you are.
Travis: Okay. Uh. Thank you. And I turn, and I walk back to my friends.
Matt: As you make your way back, Groon steps and leaps back out onto the opposite side, and you can see, on the opposite end of the platform, of the sand pit, there is a silver, somewhat tarnished, but still functional, bell. And he walks over to the side of it, grabs the rope, and just-- (tolling of a low bell). And you watch, from all the different corners of the empty temple, all the priests of Kord begin to wander back in, who had exited previously, as was the request, it seems, of Earthbreaker Groon, knowing that you were coming.
Laura: (whispers) Oh my gosh.
Matt: They all just silently enter and kind of nod and bow in your direction as you make your way towards your friends. You acknowledge it, but it doesn't slow you, doesn't stop you, they are still your focus. And you guys watch as Grog approaches, bloodied, beaten, barely conscious, one eye, the lid is kinda drooping a bit. And even though he's strong in his stride, there's still a shake with his knees, but he doesn't show that weakness. He keeps pushing towards you with a slight smile through his bearded face.
Travis: Guys-- (cough) if we could just make our way out of here, in as cool a way as possible... If I fall, just pick me up like Weekend at Bernie's, okay? (all laugh)
Laura: Pike stands next to him and says, Don't worry, you won't fall. And she casts, um, Cure-- whatever, fucking-- (all laugh)
Laura: I don't fucking know what the spell is.
Matt: Cure, Cure Things!
Laura: I'm not even looking at them-- Cure--
Matt: You have the spell!
Laura: He-- no, no, no, I gave them back to Ashley!
Matt: No, I mean--
Travis: Vex.
Matt: Vex has the spell.
Laura: Yeah, but as Pike, Cure-- okay, but Pike, she can do it better than Vex can.
Travis: You have the spell!
Matt: Sure, I rolled it for you. You heal eight hit points.
Laura: That way you're standing and you don't have to wobble out.
Travis: I'm back at nine.
Liam: Let's get you some ale, big man.
Travis: That sounds great.
Laura: Grog.
Travis: Yeah?
Laura: That was fucking amazing.
Travis: Right? I mean, I got struck by lightning, guys.
Laura: Wait! Look at your gauntlets!
Travis: What?
Laura: They're glowing!
Travis: Oh shit, they are.
Laura: What does it mean?
Marisha: Is that lightning available to you all the time? (all yell)
Sam: Piece of paper.
Liam: Just for clarification, that all took place in Super Nintendo graphics, right?
Matt: Oh, yeah.
Liam: 16-bit.
Marisha: As we walk out, Keyleth throws a little gust cantrip to kick up the dust behind us. It just looks really dusty and epic as we walk off into the sunset.
Matt: As you guys walk off, the silhouetted most-of-Vox-Machina with one giant Grog form stepping through. You exit the Trial Forge into the rest of Vasselheim. We'll take a break there.
Travis: Wow.
Laura: What's it do, what's it do?
Matt: Yeah, what does it do?
Travis: In its Exalted form, my strength now becomes 26, so plus eight, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: And when I use Enlarge now, I gain resistance to fire, cold, lightning, for ten minutes.
Laura: Oh shit, imagine if we had done that before we went after the dragons.
Liam: You should've fought that guy before the dragons.
Travis: Hey, you know? (all laugh)
Travis: A little drama's good for everybody.
Liam: You barely eked out that victory, by the way.
Travis: I know, and double damage.
Marisha: Wait, fire, lightning, and what?
Travis: And cold.
Marisha: Lightning, fire, and cold, and double damage?
Travis: Yeah, so --
Matt: Well, not double damage.
Travis: Double damage on objects and structures.
Matt: He had that previously.
Travis: But that's a lot of resistance to a lot of things. And 26 is... that's really strong.
Matt: 26 is good. It's two more than what you had, so everything goes up plus one damage to hit.
Laura: Damn.
Liam: My armor does that too, but it only makes me smell bad, it doesn't affect me.
Travis: That was awesome.
Matt: All right, guys. We're gonna take a quick break, hit the restroom, get some snacks, and we'll be back here in a few minutes. Thank you again. See you in a second. [break]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role. (all laugh)
Matt: So, picking up where we left off, Vox Machina is now exiting the Trial Forge into the Braving Grounds, Grog with the recently reinforced Titanstone Gauntlets by the strength of Kord through your duel with Earthbreaker Groon.
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: Sick!
Marisha: What do they do Grog? What do they do?
Travis: I dunno. You know what, we'll probably have to fight somebody to find out, let's find the first person outside of here.
Marisha: Well, I mean, okay
Sam: Sure to one-hit them.
Laura: Maybe we can find an old building and you can just destroy it.
Travis: I'm at nine.
Taliesin: It's just a kitten going-- (mimes punching a kitten)
Liam: Old woman!
Matt: Red mist. (all laugh)
Travis: (exploding noises) Oh shit.
Marisha: And that's how Grog was beaten to death by a purse.
Taliesin: It is technically one point. He may go down.
Marisha: Yeah, an old lady trying to cross the street and takes out Grog.
Travis: I'm at nine hit points.
Taliesin: Nine hit points?
Liam: He did just take down an old man so our streak against the elderly is going strong. (all laugh)
Marisha: You have the hit points of a kitten right now.
Travis: Right, well, I do-- I am fond of cats.
Matt: I'm pretty sure a kitten has less hit points than that.
Marisha: Yeah, like five.
Taliesin: Five.
Matt: Who would've had a level one character with less hit points then a kitten. That would be the saddest thing ever. (all laugh)
Taliesin: We worked it out at one point. We worked out the math at one point.
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: Five is way too many. At level one you can have five hit points as a person.
Taliesin: It's like two hit points, it's going to be a very tough kitten.
Liam: It'd be like 0.1.
Marisha: I mean if you're a wizard.
Matt: What we're saying is 'kitten' is the baseline hit point counter in Dungeons and Dragons, everybody.
Sam: Can we count hit points in kitten strength for now?
Matt: All right, I'm going to use three hit dice, I'm at 12 kittens.
Liam: Jewels, gems, golds and kittens. And that's what the air machines run on.
Travis: Man. Thanks for not jumping in on that. It was very personal.
Laura: It was really hard to not.
Taliesin: Anytime. You're welcome.
Travis: Yeah, thank you.
Laura: For a second there, Grog. For a second. Well, a couple of seconds. Well, no, I did, did you not see?
Travis: I missed it.
Laura: Your back was turned for so much of the time.
Taliesin: It was amazing.
Travis: Encore!
Laura: Well, I mean, we're outside. All right.
Travis: Don't. (all laugh)
Travis: I'm so sad Scanlan wasn't here for this.
Laura: I know, he would've loved that.
Travis: Yeah seriously. (sniffs)
Laura: I feel like we should go celebrate and drink, but it wouldn't feel right without him.
Travis: No, I need like a million potions, and maybe some attractive naked women to heal me back to my full health.
Laura: Right.
Marisha: It has been a while for you, hasn't it, Grog?
Taliesin: Potions or women?
Travis: Yeah. Yeah. I'm real cranky so I need bandages, and maybe some bondage, and just all the women.
Liam: Bandages upon bondages.
Marisha: Those things go together!
Travis: Good!
Marisha: That's great.
Travis: Like a B & B right?
Marisha: Yeah.. that's exactly what B & B means.
Travis: That's what the letters for those words are. (all laugh)
Liam: How long has Scanlan been out for?
Matt: Uh, at this point in time Scanlan's been out for almost a day.
Sam: (making dying noises in the background)
Liam: Gosh. I'd like to go get him, but I really want him to wake up on his own accord.
Marisha: I mean, we can try head back to Whitestone and get Grog healed up and check up on Scanlan.
Laura: I think that would be good. Maybe get some potions before we head out here, because everyone's low. I'll just stop by the store and pick some health potions from where we got them before.
Travis: There are nice stores here, and we haven't even proper shopped in a while.
Marisha: It's true. Vasselheim hasn't been touched, right?
Liam: Yeah. That's good thinking.
Matt: From what you know of the Conclave, no.
Laura: I mean we've got fucking shit to sell--
Marisha: (sneezes)
Taliesin: Bless you.
Marisha: Sorry.
Laura: -- and stuff to buy, but that's kind of a thing.
Travis: Or we should check out the stuff that we got out of the den where Raishan was.
Marisha: We should definitely do the research.
Laura: That creepy-ass book we need to look at.
Liam: Is Scanlan sleeping it off? I mean, we're in Vasselheim, we've just bamfed across miles and miles. We're here.
Travis: Yeah. (all laugh)
Marisha: I know!
Sam: Hmm, yeah, it's fine.
Laura: No, yeah, it's fine, it's fine, I'm just fucking sitting here, no big deal.
Sam: No, it's fine, I'm having a great dream.
Taliesin: I wonder what Scanlan would say if he were here right now?
Sam: Fucking come back and get me! (all laugh)
Taliesin: Yes, yes.
Marisha: He's asleep.
Taliesin: Very asleep.
Sam: (snores)
Marisha: In a coma.
Laura: Shit.
Taliesin: Do quick shopping and then head home and look at all the things.
Laura: A quick buying of potions, I just wanna see if I can get some stuff.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: I should've just shaken that instead of just--
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah. 14.
Matt: Okay, with a cursory glance of the area of the Quad Roads which you previously went to for the acquiring of various tonics and salves and healing liquids, you do find a new nice establishment that's just recently been built. And as you enter to check in, the gentleman at the front looks up at you, and is familiar looking, and he goes "Can I help you-- No! You are not welcome. Leave. Now. Out. Please." (snaps fingers)
Sam: Who's this guy?
Matt: And these two bouncers kind of step--
Laura: Are you the cart guy? Fucking who--
Matt: Please. No. Not her. Please!
Laura: I didn't abuse him. Everyone else abused him. I was very kind to you.
Matt: Your business is not welcome here, goodbye.
Travis: Excuse me, has anyone seen my friend Ve-- You.
Matt: You?
Travis: -- beautiful salesman, carrier of all delightful things.
Laura: See! We're friends, we're all friends here.
Travis: Was he uncomfortable seeing you or something?
Laura: Yeah. Said he didn't like me very much.
Travis: I can't imagine why?
Laura: I can't imagine why?
Matt: What do you want from me?
Laura: Just some potions.
Matt: We don't have many.
Travis: Whatcha got?
Matt: We can do business. We cannot.
Laura: All right, I'll just stand next to him while you do business with him.
Matt: You're not welcome in my establishment.
Travis: I'm really hard of hearing. Like, I've been working--
Matt: I can yell!
Laura: Could you understand that?
Travis: It was like (mimics Matt)
Matt: (groans)
Laura: Yeah, yeah, it's just muffled, it's just muffled for him.
Matt: (huffs) "Well, our stocks have been running low since last time you came through, we don't have much!" He puts up a small leather case and opens it.
Travis: It is such a shame. Did you tell him already that we have a whole kingdom's worth of jewelry and gold to spend, and I'm really tired of carrying it.
Laura: Stuff to sell.
Matt: Blah, blah, blah, blah.
Laura: It is so unfortunate. We are saviors of Emon, saviors of the world, really, and he doesn't even care.
Travis: I thought I'd lighten this backpack a little.
Matt: I really don't care. I have four healing potions and one greater. That is all I have.
Laura: Oh, is it?
Matt: That's it. You want it? No? Then good day.
Laura: You know, I don't like him, I don't even want to buy it from him.
Matt: Perfect.
Travis: You go ahead and leave.
Matt: Please!
Laura: No, Grog, please don't. Don't shop without me.
Travis: I'm just gonna yell at him really loud.
Laura: No, no, I'm standing here. I can't let you do this.
Matt: Could you please just escort them out--
Travis: No, no, no, we'll take it. We'll take it. How much? For the four healing potions and the one greater?
Matt: 1500 gold pieces.
Travis: Cool!
Laura: I don't know, me personally, if that is a good amount. But Vex would know, is that a good amount or is that a shit amount?
Matt: Based on your previous dealings with this individual, the fact that you are getting a price at all--
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: --is good.
Laura: But it's not a good price.
Matt: It's not a good market price, but it's also a buyer's market right now.
Travis: I know how to do this. I take a bag of gold--
Laura: No, Grog! Grog, Grog, Grog.
Travis: -- pour it onto the desk. Just a pile of gold.
Laura: Grog, do not do this. Please, please, please.
Travis: 1500 gold pieces.
Laura: I just scoop it back into your little-- hold out your pouch.
Travis: Do you not want healing potions, or what?
Laura: Huh?
Matt: He starts putting them back into the leather case. (huffs)
Laura: I don't want his healing potions. I think those aren't even real healing potions, I think those are probably water colored--
Travis: Well, I mean, clearly I have to say they have worked.
Matt: Probably yes, you're right. They are colored liquid of no particular worth. You're right, leave. Begone.
Laura: Right.
Travis: They've worked every time.
Laura: But we can-- Grog, please.
Travis: Vex. We are so rich.
Liam: I lean in the door and say, you've been in there long enough to pay rent, what is going on?
Travis: Vax, will you come in here a minute?
Liam: Uh, yeah.
Travis: Will you please tell your sister that we have enough money to fund several townships, and that this guy wants 1500 gold for four healing potions and we have almost none.
Laura: And a greater healing potion! Five healing potions really.
Liam: Is she being a pain in the arse?
Travis: Yeah, I mean, c'mon, Vax.
Liam: We're not begging in Stillben. Will you give the guy some fucking coin so we can get the fuck out of here?
Laura: Yeah, but this guy's mean!
Liam: My time is valuable. Will you pay him so we can go, please?
Travis: You're also royalty, so you should show peasants how to act. You know, stiff upper lip, pip-pip.
Taliesin: So glad I'm not in this room.
Laura: That's true.
Marisha: My time is valuable.
Liam: That was Liam.
Marisha: I know, I know.
Laura: I am a lady, and ladies treat merchants well, and they don't hold grudges, I hear, because they are ladies and they are above it. So here. Take this 1500 gold. I'm going to count it out for you, Grog. It's below him, it's beneath him to count this gold, he's also a Lord. There you are. C'mon Grand Poobah.
Liam: All he hears is fart noises, and I grab her by the mouth and I drag her out the door.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: He hands the potions over to Grog. "Very well. Enjoy your day, and I'd be wary of keeping her as your business contact. She's a bit abrasive."
Travis: Yeah, I noticed. You've moved up in the world, this is really nice.
Matt: I'm sharing it with a few folks, it's sort of a partnership, but yes.
Travis: Is it working out for you?
Matt: Well, I've had to hire bodyguards, if that's any indication.
Travis: If I wanted your name, like if I wanted to call on you later, 'cause it seems like-- As far back as I can remember, we've run into you quite a bit, and I'm kind of fond of this--
Laura: No, just a couple of times. Just a couple of times.
Travis: Yeah. Do you have a name?
Matt: Cidrick Gillsman.
Travis: I will not remember that.
Marisha: Oh, this guy.
Travis: By the way, did you have any--
Laura: It's the guy. That took advantage of Grog
Marisha: That took all the money from him?
Liam: It's why I'm saying nothing.
Travis: --limited exclusive items and, like, top shelf. Your most elite, (clicks tongue) paying customers only?
Marisha: Did you say 'a leek'?
Matt: I just generally run the realm of healing balms and salves.
Travis: Right.
Matt: My partner does a bit more than that, but he is out currently picking up a shipment and will be back in a few days. Try back then.
Marisha: Where's his shipment from?
Sam: Are you there?
Matt: Who are you?
Marisha: Did he come out? I thought he came out.
All: No.
Liam: No, he walked into the door with Vex.
Marisha: No, sorry.
Sam: You're at the window. When's he coming back?
Travis: Where's he getting his shipment from? Do you trust your partner? This new guy?
Matt: I do, and I don't trust you enough to tell you this information.
Travis: I give him ten gold for the information.
Matt: Thank you, that is very generous. I don't know.
Travis: Oh.
Matt: He gives the ten gold back.
Travis: Oh! I thank you for your time, Poobah out. And I leave. (all laugh)
Matt: All right.
Travis: Look, I know that was hard for you.
Laura: Grog.
Travis: He was very apologetic.
Laura: Was he?
Travis: Yup. He was-- yup.
Laura: Grog, he took advantage of you before--
Travis: No, he didn't.
Laura: -- and I didn't like that.
Travis: No, look, his hands were on that side of the counter the whole time.
Laura: Oh?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Really?
Travis: Mm-hm.
Laura: Well, all right then.
Travis: Yeah, here, these are for you.
Laura: Thanks, darling.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Which one do you want?
Travis: No, I don't want any, I need more of the hands-on healing, you know what I'm saying?
Laura: I cast Cure Wounds on him. Level four, bitch!
Matt: All right.
Laura: Whoa.
Matt: 4d8 (all laugh)
Travis: 4d8?
Matt: 4d8 plus your wisdom modifier.
Liam: What does that mean?
Taliesin: It's like if you gave him an ice cream, you see me running around on a sugar high for the rest of the day. Never gonna burn that off.
Laura: 14, 19.
Marisha: Yeah, the Makey Mace-- the Mickey Mouse-shaped one?
Taliesin: Forgot the ears.
Marisha: Those were great, with the ears.
Laura: 22.
Travis: 22
Travis: 31 hit points.
Laura: So... who needs the greater?
Marisha: I'm all right. Give it to others.
Travis: I mean, we could take a short rest and let me heal up for a second. Once we land somewhere.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Marisha: We're going home, right?
Liam: You wanna rest in the tavern?
Travis: I mean, maybe.
Liam: For an hour?
Travis: But didn't you need to go somewhere?
Laura: Percy. Greater?
Taliesin: Thank you.
Laura: Then I pass out the other healing potions between--
Liam: Where I have to go is a little more involved.
Travis: Oh.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Are you gonna slide by the temple?
Liam: I scoop you by the arm and take you off for a minute. You know, I want to come back here, sometime. One, I would love to go to the Velvet Cabaret again. You know, just like a date night.
Marisha: Oh, that was great. Yeah, that was fu--
Liam: Yeah, but without somebody trying to kill us.
Marisha: -- oh my gosh, that was before we were together. That was good times. (all laugh)
Liam: I'd like to go back without somebody trying to murder any of us, though.
Marisha: Right, yeah.
Liam: That aside, I do have to go to the temple, but I don't want to go.
Marisha: Why are you saying it like you have to go to the toilet?
Liam: 'Cause that's kind of what it's like.
Marisha: Does it feel like that? Yeah. Okay. Yeah.
Liam: Yeah, there is another shoe that's gonna drop, probably, eventually.
Taliesin: You should probably pass that, I think.
Liam: I wanna get back to--
Marisha: (laughs) As Percy walks by.
Taliesin: No, I don't walk by. I just-- I'm amazed that no one remembers that we can hear everything over these earpieces.
Laura: No, you have to be touching your ear.
Liam: No, you have to hit send, my friend.
Marisha: (laughing) You have to hit send.
Taliesin: Carry on, carry on. (all laugh)
Liam: Her other shoe is gonna drop, eventually. And I'm not ready for that.
Marisha: What are you afraid of? What do you think she's gonna ask of you?
Liam: I don't know.
Marisha: You think she's gonna cash in on that bargain?
Liam: Why wouldn't she?
Marisha: I thought you already considered paid up in a way. I don't know.
Liam: I don't know.
Marisha: Sure.
Liam: But I feel like being a little selfish and taking a little time, and when she wants me-- 'cause she's not talking to me at the moment-- when she wants me, she'll call. So I'd like a little time.
Marisha: Okay. What are you asking of me right now?
Liam: Just to come back, down the road.
Marisha: Later?
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Do you wanna go now?
Liam: No.
Marisha: While we're here?
Liam: No.
Marisha: You're sure?
Liam: Very sure.
Marisha: So, just getting this straight. What you're proposing is a Raven Queen-slash-Velvet date night visit back to Vasselheim?
Liam: Well, I don't know what's gonna happen at the--
Marisha: Like, you go to church and then we go to the casino?
Liam: I'd probably do it the other way around?
Marisha: Sure.
Liam: Because I don't know what's gonna happen at church. I'm talking months. Unless she rings, okay? I just want to spend some time with you, before I have to do whatever the fuck she wants. She's going to collect.
Marisha: Mm-hm.
Liam: My sister is walking around and breathing. Still.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Shocking as that is.
Marisha: I mean, the fact that any of us are still doing that is impressive at this point.
Liam: Anyway.
Marisha: Okay, so that will be-- that's a good date night to look forward to. Let's go home, I guess.
Travis: Yeah. Let's at least go see if little lover boy has woken up.
Laura: Yeah, we've got our potions.
Liam: Way down the line.
Marisha: Way down the line.
Liam: Way down the line.
Marisha: Sure. Are you sure you don't wanna just hop in the Raven's Spa, tonight?
Laura: Hey, Keyleth?
Marisha: Uh-huh?
Liam: Jesus.
Laura: Sorry, I just--
Liam: Who is that?
Laura: -- finished buying those potions.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: So, do you wanna get back to Whitestone?
Marisha: Are you okay? You're a little-- you look a little sweaty.
Laura: No, I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm fine.
Liam: That little vein on the side of your forehead--
Laura: You know what? We've made a lot of money, and--
Marisha: Yeah, you've got the Julia Roberts vein going. (laughs)
Liam: Who?
Laura: (laughs)
Marisha: Don't worry about it.
Laura: I really do get that thing, though, I really do. But no, I'm okay. We're fine. Everything's fine. Except Scanlan's still unconscious, so maybe we should go see if he's all right?
Marisha: You're right, you're right, all right.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: Let's go. Let's go. Everything's fine here too, by the way.
Laura: Good, good, you guys didn't seem awkward at all while I walked up.
Marisha: No, we're never awkward.
Travis: How do we get back?
Laura: Maybe we should go.
Marisha: Huh?
Laura: Tree. A tree? Can you still do a Tree Stride?
Marisha: I could do a tree.
Laura: Let's do a tree.
Travis: We gotta leave the city, though, right? Out of respect.
Laura: No, I don't think we have to.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: Druid magic's different.
Marisha: Huh?
Laura: It's not like-- It's not like showy wizard magic.
Travis: These rules confuse me, but okay.
Liam: The wizard magic is like Broadway musicals?
Laura: Yeah. It's like jazz hands. And druid magic is like modern dance.
Taliesin: Community theater.
Marisha: Yes, yes.
Liam: Brechtian theater. (pained groans)
Matt: (laughs)
Marisha: If wizardry is Bob Fosse, druidism is Twyla Tharp.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: Wow. We went there.
Travis: That was good.
Marisha: I might know my modern choreographers. Okay? Let's go back to Whitestone.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. So you find your way back to the Abundant Terrace, where you find a similar-sized tree, to what you arrived in. Using Transport Via Plants, you transport yourself back to Whitestone, stepping out of the Sun Tree. Make your way--
Liam: Pfft.
Matt: Where else, you would like to within Whitestone?
Marisha: It does not make that sound. That's what you're trying to do. It does not sound like that.
Laura: Like a little fart?
Marisha: That is not canon.
Liam: Trees don't fart out here?
Marisha: They don't. Trees don't fart, they poot, okay.
Laura: I just start heading--
Liam: (loud pooting sound)
Laura: -- towards the castle.
Matt: It's the air ashari, man. So what were you saying?
Laura: I start heading towards the castle.
Travis: On the way there, I ask Percy, Percy! Percy.
Marisha: The Cantrip Gust.
Travis: I know this city's, like, being rebuilt and everything--
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: -- but do you think there will ever be like a pleasure hall, or a house of, you know, bosoms. I mean, I just want to put out like a couple ideas as a city, bound up.
Taliesin: Of course it has one. Do I happen to know where it is, or do I not?
Matt: I mean, it hasn't been--
Travis: Nope, yeah, it's pretty empty right now, I know this.
Matt: -- really functional for a while.
Taliesin: I feel like it would be the sort of thing that would have just existed for fuck all ever.
Travis: No, no, no, yeah.
Matt: Whitestone has had-- there's generally-- There were two brothels, one was destroyed, in the Briarwoods' run.
Marisha: Is one called the House of Bosoms?
Sam: Better be.
Marisha: It's like the House of Cards of porno.
Matt: As one of the titled masters of Whitestone, it could very well in the near future. Just tell me so I can add it to the campaign guide. (all laugh)
Travis: I'll come up with something better.
Sam: International House of Bosoms
Travis: Yes. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Thank you.
Travis: With all the flags on it.
Taliesin: Would I possibly know this?
Travis: And six different syrups to choose from in each room.
Sam: Ahh, the silver dollars.
Taliesin: I don't even know if I would know this.
Matt: You know what? Make a history check.
Taliesin: A history check? That's so-- okay. A natural twenty.
Travis: Is it really?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That's a natural twenty, with my history is--
Sam: Whore check! (all laugh)
Taliesin: -- is a 30. That's a 30.
Laura: Percy knows knows.
Matt: You've never been to it, but you recall one of your older brothers who is of age did return and tell stories of a house of--
Marisha: IHOB
Matt: -- flesh and pleasure.
Travis: Thank god.
Matt: You don't recall its name, but you know that it existed somewhere on the western side of this city, and within a short period of time, you could lead him to it.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: And also that they serve a pancake with-- (all laugh)
Taliesin: There's a pancake brunch.
Travis: Smiley face?
Sam: -- some chocolate chips and a smiley face.
Liam: The ancient Sumerians would pay for sex with silver dollars.
Taliesin: I'm honestly not sure, Grog. I really have to think about it. I don't know if such a thing exists.
Travis: But I'm just saying, you know, if you need to lean on me to develop that sort of the economy again, I'm here for you buddy.
Taliesin: That's good to know.
Travis: Okay.
Taliesin: That's good to know. Excellent.
Travis: Let's go find Scanlan. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I wonder if he's awake yet.
Sam: Search for him. Wherever he might be.
Laura: Where did we leave him, again?
Travis: I think strapped up and covered in mayonnaise.
Taliesin: Pudding. Pudding.
Travis: Pudding.
Liam: "Pudding."
Matt: So you guys find your way back to castle Whitestone, upwards to Scanlan's room. The door's partially ajar. On the inside you see Kaylie is actually asleep. She's sitting on a stool next to the bed and her head's down, and she's very lightly snoring. And there, in the bed, as you left him, is Scanlan.
Laura: His arms are still up?
Matt: Well, he's been turned.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: We've had people taking care of that.
Laura: Jeez.
Travis: And Kaylie's sitting in the chair, or is she leaning back on?
Matt: No, she's leaning back in a chair and is passed out. Scanlan is still on the bed.
Travis: Can I please knock the legs of the chair out?
Taliesin: There's seven children in this family, I think they're used to some tomfoolery.
Laura: It's up to you, Grog.
Travis: Yeah. I walk over and I just kick the back leg of the chair out so she falls down.
Matt: (falling sound) (yelps)
Travis: Oh my god, these chairs are so old. Are you all right?
Matt: Oh, I'm gonna remember that.
Travis: Oh right, I forgot, you'll speed bag my nuts later, sorry.
Laura: How you doing, Kaylie?
Matt: She looks groggy and slightly hung over and is like, "All right. So, you've all come back? He hasn't really done nothing" And she kinda smacks him in the side of the face and wipes some of the pudding off. You hear, just ever so faintly, as you kinda are coming out of your stupor, you hear what sounds like voices muffled, and it comes to, you hear what sounds like Grog, and then what sounds like Kaylie, and then something hits you in the cheek and you feel a slight tinge of pain like a flick. But your eyes begin to blink, and you guys watch as Scanlan begins to stir.
Laura: How long has he been like this?
Liam: Why is he covered in pudding?
Laura: Who did this to him?
Taliesin: I have no idea.
Sam: What's going on?
Marisha: Keyleth takes a little bit of the gunk off and what is it?
Laura: Gross.
Matt: It's like a vanilla custard.
Liam: Thank God.
Laura: That's fucking foul, Keyleth.
Marisha: Look. How do you think druids discover things, okay? Someone has to figure out what's poison and what's not.
Liam: Sour.
Taliesin: They lick them apparently.
Matt: It's a little sour.
Marisha: This is funny. This is funny, was this you? This is funny!
Sam: Hello. Hello?
Matt: You guys hear Scanlan talking.
Sam: Hello? What's going--
Laura: Scanlan! (gasps)
Sam: Hi.
Liam: Hey, buddy. LAURA (sing-songy) Welcome back!
Sam: What-- where am I?
Taliesin: You missed all the fun.
Sam: What's going on, where am I?
Liam: This is the afterlife, Scanlan, you've gone to the good place.
Matt: Your hands are bound up over your head currently, and you are dressed in a nightgown and your room and yourself are, there's spatters of pudding everywhere.
Sam: What's going on? Why am I like this? Where am I?
Laura: You don't remember?
Sam: No. Is the dragon alive?
Laura: No, you killed it, and then we all celebrated, and you had a big orgy.
Travis: Yeah, you proposed to this woman downstairs and this was your bachelor party.
Marisha: You clearly have some very intense dreams, Scanlan.
Sam: I feel like you're fucking with me. (all laugh)
Matt: And you hear Kaylie's voice, "Oh, you think that? Probably right true."
Sam: What are you doing here?
Matt: Well, apparently your friends brought me along to make sure that you woke up nice and right.
Sam: They brought you here?
Matt: Aye.
Sam: Where are-- are we in Whitestone?
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: We're in Whitestone.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: And the dragon is very dead. Very, very dead.
Laura: But you are not. And that's very important.
Sam: Kaylie, could you excuse us a moment?
Matt: "Aye, but at the very least--" And she reaches over and undoes the bindings on your wrists. Your fingers are a little numb. You pull back and kind of rub them instinctually. She goes, "Don't take too long. I've a mind to speak to you in a minute."
Laura: Kaylie?
Matt: Aye?
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: "Sure." She just kind of storms past and pushes, a little gnome figure pushing through the crowd of Vox Machina, and out of the room.
Sam: I'm sorry I... fell again. Can someone answer me one thing, though? Who got Kaylie? Who brought Kaylie here?
Travis: Vex did.
Laura: I sit down on the bed with you. Well, it just seemed like the logical thing to do, dear.
Sam: Why the fuck would you do that?
Laura: Right. Well, 'cause you said that--
Sam: I promised her that I wasn't going to die, and you showed her my dead body. You thought that was a good idea?
Laura: What! Would you rather she just discover it on her own? This way she--
Sam: No! I'd rather she never know.
Laura: Scanlan. She came here. She helped bring you back. You know what that means, right?
Sam: Yes, I do, unfortunately.
Laura: You think it's bad that she cares about you?
Sam: I think it's bad that she thinks that I'm an oathbreaker, that I am weak, that I failed in my promise to her.
Laura: Scanlan.
Sam: That everything she thought of me when she found me is confirmed now. That I can't be trusted, and I can't protect her.
Laura: Scanlan. She thought nothing of you when you met her, all right? The fact that she showed up here and saw that you gave your life for a greater cause? That's so much more important than any promise you made.
Sam: I hope that's true.
Laura: I think it is. She didn't run away. And after the fact she stayed here and looked after you!
Liam: You should have heard her play.
Sam: I did. I think. I heard music. I heard Pike.
Laura: Wait. You heard?
Sam: I heard voices. I heard Pike saying a poem. I heard someone playing music.
Travis: Was that it?
Sam: Yes.
Liam: All your daughter knows is that you stood against great evil overtaking an entire continent. That's nothing to sneeze at, Scanlan.
Sam: She also knows that I fell and that my friends thought it would be funny to put me in a fucking nightgown and spread pudding all over me.
Taliesin: That was me.
Sam: And bring back my lifeless body and show her how weak her father is. That's what she saw. I made a promise, and I broke it, and you proved it to her. And I wish you hadn't meddled in my affairs. I don't have... I don't have many things that I care about, and I don't have anything that cares about me.
Laura: That's a lie.
Travis: That is bullshit.
Marisha: Definitely not true.
Liam: That's full bullshit.
Sam: What? You think you care about me?
Travis: Yes.
Liam: Yes, asshole! Yes.
Sam: Yes, I'm sorry, you're right. You like me because I make jokes, and I play songs, and I give you a warm place to stay at night, and I feed you fucking chicken, and I heal you in battle. But you don't really care about me. Come on. Let's be honest with each other. You don't really give a shit about me.
Liam: I've changed my outlook on life because of you! What the fuck are you talking about? Of course we all love you--
Sam: Prove it.
Liam: -- you could crush me in a second.
Sam: Prove it.
Liam: How?
Laura: What do you want us to do?
Sam: We traveled into the fucking nine hells to get Pike a set of armor. We went and battled a city of vampires so Percy could feel good about his name. We fought goliaths for Grog. We've traveled across planes of existence so you could fix your fucking daddy issues. But you've never done anything for me. Ever! You've never risked anything, you don't know me, you don't know anything about me. What's my mother's name? What's her name? Easy question. Died in front of me. Killed by a goblin. Biggest part of my life. What's her name? My father. Is he alive or dead? How old am I? Where's my fucking dog?
Laura: We did get the dog.
Sam: You don't care about me.
Laura: We did get your dog.
Sam: Did you?
Travis: No, we didn't.
Laura: We did, I searched--
Liam: I've asked your age.
Laura: I thought I did the magic search. Fucking hell.
Sam: It's fine. I'm just a little hungover from being dead, and I just have been thinking for a while, and, you know. Grog has Pike. Vax has Keyleth. Percy has Vex. But Scanlan has no one, and I had one chance at one real relationship with my daughter, and I feel like you've gone and fucked it up, too. Because you don't really know me, and you don't really know what my relationship is with her, and what I've promised her, or anything, really. And it's fine. When I met you all, I was just a funny little man playing songs, and that's all I'll ever really be. And that's okay, because I can take care of myself.
Laura: You don't have to, Scanlan. Nobody knew that any of this was going on. How many times have we asked you if you're all right and you just laugh and joke? We can't help you if you don't tell us what's going on.
Sam: I don't need your help.
Laura: Well, apparently you do, darling.
Sam: I don't like that very much at all.
Laura: Get used to it. Nobody likes needing someone.
Marisha: Scanlan, do you think any of us could have gotten here without each other? I thought you knew that more than the rest of us. Maybe we just thought you didn't need us as much as you felt like we didn't.
Liam: I thought you were the only one who had everything figured out.
Marisha: I did too.
Sam: Well then, I must be a very good liar.
Marisha: You are.
Laura: You are.
Liam: I thought for months, what haven't I got figured out that Scanlan has got figured out? I've been trapped in the mud for months, wondering what I could do to get where you are. Scanlan, you fucking saved the world with us. If your daughter can't see that, then she can't see anything.
Sam: Yeah. If you really respected me, you wouldn't pick me up like some sort of dwarf and pick me up and put me down and take off your fucking armor and treat me like a fucking child.
Liam: You've thrown some of us like baseballs. I don't know what that is.
Marisha: Scanlan. Do you wish we wouldn't have brought you back? Should we not have done that?
Sam: I just wish you wouldn't have brought her into this.
Marisha: Scanlan--
Sam: I had one shot with her, and now how will I ever show her that I can be trusted? How will I ever show her that I can protect her?
Laura: Well, maybe you should fucking talk to her.
Marisha: Yeah, you're a better father than most of us have ever had.
Sam: You're right. I should talk to her.
Laura: You should!
Sam: I should! I should. And I will.
Laura: Don't treat her like a fucking sacred object, treat her like a daughter, Scanlan.
Sam: Fine. You're right. I will. I will. I'll talk to her. Listen. I don't know what adventure we're going on next, but I think you should go without me.
Travis: Really?
Sam: Vex is right. I should talk to her. I should be here for her. I don't know why I wasn't with her in the first place. I didn't need to go with you to kill the dragons. I should've just been with her in the first place. Probably just scared to. I should just be her father and stay.
Travis: Can I ask you a question?
Sam: Yeah. No, I will not go whoring with you one more time.
Travis: No. I was gonna ask you what your mother's name is.
Sam: It was Juniper.
Travis: I'm sorry I didn't know that.
Sam: Thank you for asking.
Laura: Is your father still alive?
Sam: I don't really know. He makes things. Made things, I don't know. His name is Vicou.
Travis: I'm glad you're back. Whatever you want to do now that you are... it's up to you, mate.
Marisha: I'm sorry if we had selfish intentions.
Travis: We did have selfish in--
Marisha: Yeah. Grog knows what I'm trying to say.
Travis: We didn't think about those things. We didn't. We thought about what you meant to us. It may not feel like much, to us it feels like a bit, but now that you're here...
Marisha: Scanlan, as much as you can say that you were just the funny guy who played music and made jokes, I don't think you realize how desperately we need that. That's nothing to scoff at, that's not a talent that many of us naturally possess. You've taught me so much about the brightness of the world, and to look at the light side of things.
Sam: I guess it's just easier to laugh at the world when you don't care about it.
Marisha: That's not true. You do care.
Sam: I know.
Laura: That's why he's an asshole now.
Liam: We've never had one conversation, you and I, about my mother. Where my sister and I came from. Did you know Thordak killed her?
Sam: I think that's come up.
Liam: We've never talked about it. Not once. Because I didn't want to talk about it. I didn't push into your private life. If you wanted to talk to me, and you did, about your daughter. We did. We talked in the sewers of Westruun about your daughter because you wanted to talk about her. We love you, Scanlan, and if you want to talk about your mother or your father, we will. You have not been exactly forthcoming.
Sam: That's fair. I haven't been. But I also don't-- I don't have anyone. I have to take care of myself. That's all.
Liam: We have survived a fucking hellscape. All of us.
Sam: (quietly) I didn't.
Liam: You are standing before me, talking to me. You did.
Sam: I did not. I died. Twice.
Liam: That's fucking semantics, Shorthalt.
Sam: In a row.
Liam: You've been brought back. You're standing here. Your daughter is there and needs you.
Sam: I'm being kept alive by some fucked-up weird magic. Before I met you people, I would have never-- the worst I would have gotten in is a bar fight. And I would have won. 'Cause I would have been a liar and a cheater. And now, I didn't help any of you in the last fight. I didn't do anything. The fight before that, I didn't do anything--
Liam: What about the fight before that?
Sam: -- I'm useless!
Laura: (tiredly) No, you're not.
Sam: -- I'm out of my league. I'm out of my league. Listen, it was fun. It's fun. It really has been fun to travel with six legends. It's fun. It's fun to say that your friends are legendary fighters. It's fun!
Liam: Excuse me! Speaking as someone who has been fucking depressed for a long time-- Look me in the eye. I was shit for months. And you are one of the main reasons I am out of that now. We would be dead, all of us, if it weren't for you. The first time we fought Raishan, we would all be dead. You are in a pity party right now, and I know you're hurting, and I'm sorry you're hurting, and I love you. But you are lying to yourself, that you have been no use to us. You are lying to yourself. If you wanna retire, if you wanna go off with your daughter, that's fucking wonderful. I encourage you to do it. But don't lie to yourself.
Sam: Well, that's just it. I'm a really good liar.
Liam: (pleading) Scanlan.
Sam: Just give me some time.
Marisha: (timidly) Hey-- hey, guys? We're friends, right? Are we friends?
Taliesin: Worse, family.
Liam: Family.
Marisha: That's fair.
Taliesin: And for fuck's sake, sir, I will say I died in that fight too.
Sam: It's not fun, is it?
Taliesin: No. And let me tell you something. Whatever lie you were trying to feed your daughter out there about the man she thought you might be, that you just thought you could tell her and then she would walk away and never actually meet you or get to know you. So that maybe she would never see what a shit you can be. And you can be a shit. That fucking girl out there is a shit too. She's a miserable, lying shit. And for fuck's sake, the thing that brought her back here was the things about you that you don't like about yourself. And don't think that they don't count, either. You're a shitty person, we know! That's not the fucking point. The point is for just one moment-- one moment-- once in a blue bloody moon... You come through in a way that others can't. And you do it, and we love you for it, and you are worthwhile, there's a reason we just nearly went mad trying to bring you back. And it was not pity. And we didn't bring her-- we brought her here so that maybe she would snap you out of wherever the fuck you were going to. And I know you're not out of there yet, I've been where you are and I know it's shit. And I would really recommend, as somebody who misses an awful lot of people, that you are honest with that girl and maybe discover that she actually likes you. As a person. Because you are actually likeable as a person! I know, it's coming out of my mouth. I can feel the shit from it but it's true. And for fuck's sake, get to know her and stop making false promises that you can protect her, and you'll always be there. 'Cause you can't and you won't. No one can. And you're fucking lying! And it's sick. Be a man. Be a man. I've seen you be a man, I know you can fucking do it. And when you're done with that, and we will leave you with that fucking shit girl, I would like you to look up my parents' name. You can find it on every fifth hallway in this fucking city. And then I'm out.
Matt: (hoarsely) You leave the room?
Taliesin: Mm-hm.
Matt: (clears throat) Okay. As you push the door open-- it's still partially ajar-- and as you push it open, leaning against the wall just by the door is Kaylie, and you can see she has tears streaming down her face.
Taliesin: I give her a big hug, a kiss on the forehead--
Matt: She doesn't let you. As soon as you go for it, she just kind of smacks it away--
Taliesin: (makes an air kissing noise)
Matt: --turns into the room, and just kind of walks past everyone and grabs her bag off the ground. Slings it over her shoulder, grabs her violin case. "So, you coming?"
Sam: ...Yeah.
Matt: "Grab your things. Be waiting for you downstairs." And she walks out.
Laura: Really? Just like that?
Sam: I have to.
Marisha: Where're you going to go? What're you going to do?
Sam: I'm just gonna be a Shorthalt for a while. And I'm just gonna figure out what that means. And... it's great being part of a team, but you gotta know who you are first. So I gotta go figure that out. And I gotta go figure out what she is, too. And when I do, I'll come back and find you. And if you really need a place to stay, I'll advise you to buy some tents, 'cause you won't have a mansion anymore. I know you'll be fine 'cause you all have each other, but for now, I just need to have me for a while. I love you all. I even love Percy... and his parents, Frederick and Johanna. And I'll go with Kaylie.
Travis: Wait. I reach into the Bag of Holding and I grab my salt-lick rock and I toss it to Scanlan.
Sam: What's this?
Travis: It's yours now. When you miss us-- I know you will-- give it a lick.
Sam: (choked) All right, I will.
Laura: I grab the Gatestone off the end table where we left it with him and hand it over to you as well.
Sam: You'll need this.
Laura: I'd rather it go to you.
Sam: When Vex tries to give you something, you take it. All right. Don't die.
Liam: Scanlan... We'll miss you.
Sam: (exhales) I hope so. And... well, you said I was right. Let's pick up that conversation later. I'll go out the door.
Matt: Okay. As he walks down the hall, you hear his feet across the stonework echo quieter and quieter until you can't hear it anymore, and you all stand in stunned silence in the chamber.
Liam: (draws in a breath) Fuck.
Laura: I just pick up a pillow and throw it at the door.
Matt: It opens slightly. The pillow lays on the ground smattered with vanilla pudding.
Travis: Did he take all his things with him?
Matt: I would say he would've grabbed his things as he left, yeah.
Laura: Well, that didn't go like I thought it would.
Marisha: No. No it didn't.
Laura: Kinda wish we would've gone drinking in Vasselheim now.
Travis: We might've missed him if we had.
Liam: (wearily) We saved the continent, why does everything feel like shit?
Travis: He's alive. That's what really matters.
Liam: But he's our liar, Grog.
Laura: (tearily) And he hates us, now.
Marisha: He doesn't hate us. I just... think we've all just discovered that maybe we have a lot more secrets about ourselves than we've all ever let on.
Travis: He needs time. We have that.
Laura: (angrily) Fuck him! Fuck him for not saying anything sooner.
Marisha: I dunno.
Laura: And fuck us for not asking. (sniffs)
Marisha: I think Percy's right. We're worse than friends, we're family. And family leaves.
Liam: Yes. They do.
Marisha: Can we not be family? Can we, like, redact that?
Liam: I don't think so. I think it's too late.
Travis: I step out into the hallway. Do I see Percy at all?
Taliesin: I'm around the corner, up on the--
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm outside of-- If you went far enough, you'd see me.
Matt: You eventually find Percy, yeah.
Travis: Hey.
Taliesin: Hi.
Travis: Rough one, that. Question
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: Do you have any, like, sneaky people in your employ here in the castle.
Taliesin: 'Course.
Travis: Wouldn't you feel better if we had someone just keeping an eye on them? Bit explosive, the two of them together.
Taliesin: I'm torn. I don't know if he'd like that.
Travis: I don't know if I care. (laughs)
Taliesin: I don't know if I do, either. I keep thinking, I could just shout right now and half a dozen guards would stop them.
Travis: Yeah. It'd be half a dozen dead guards, though.
Taliesin: Well, what's half a dozen dead guards these days?
Travis: Good point.
Taliesin: There's tale of a brothel in the west end of Whitestone. I don't know if it still exists but I'm sure if you go drinking in that area, you might find something. Sorry.
Travis: No, yeah. Yeah. I'll go give it a look.
Taliesin: When you're in the mood.
Travis: Now's good. Yeah, I'll be back after nightfall. Gonna go out for a bit.
Taliesin: Grog.
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: I know we don't always agree, and I know that I can be unkind but... you know you're family, right?
Travis: I don't know much, but I do know that.
Taliesin: It's nice having an older brother again.
Travis: I leave.
Marisha: So what, just-- the half-elves are left alone in a room covered in pudding?
Matt: Yeah. (all laugh)
Matt: Yeah, basically.
Taliesin: Way to paint a tableau.
Marisha: Crying.
Matt: Yeah. Crying in your pudding.
Marisha: Angry.
Taliesin: I think 'crying in your pudding' is actually a British saying.
Marisha: Do you think that if we would've not covered the room in pudding, that he would have stayed?
Laura: I start cleaning it up. Well, he seemed pretty pissed that I went and got Kaylie, even though he ran away with her at the first chance he had.
Marisha: And you had to stay in a shitty BnB, a brothel and-- (laughs)
Matt: You see that Pike is still kinda shaking her fist in the corner right now. She doesn't say anything during this whole exchange.
Liam: Pike--
Laura: Pike, are you okay?
Liam: How you doing, Pickle?
Marisha: Oh, right, Pike. Right.
Matt: He needs to do this... Right? He needs to do this.
Laura: He says he does.
Matt: What do we need to do?
Laura: I have no fucking clue.
Matt: I need to get a drink.
Marisha: Yeah. We could always go back to Vasselheim and pick up on that little drinking.
Laura: I'm not gonna go anywhere, Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: I don't wanna go back to Vasselheim.
Marisha: I mean, we can drink anywhere. Vasselheim doesn't have to be in that equation.
Matt: Where else do we have to go? Away from here. I just want to be away from here.
Liam: Pike--
Marisha: I have to go to the water ashari. I have to.
Liam: And before too long, we have a demon who wants you and I dead in the night. We have to deal with it.
Matt: All right. Anything else?
Marisha: Pike, you know the Ozmit Sea. You've sailed it, yeah?
Matt: It's been a while, but yeah.
Marisha: We might need you for the water ashari.
Matt: I can do that.
Marisha: Seems like-- I guess all of us are picking up on our own individual paths from here? I guess.
Matt: Why can't we still help each other out?
Liam: We can. Of course we can. Pike...
Matt: His path is his own. He has to do his thing alone. We don't have to be alone.
Liam: No. No, we don't. We just wanna slow things down for a while. It's been a long couple of months.
Marisha: Is Scanlan right? Have we become too close to each other? Do we need to all take our individual time like we've done in the past?
Liam: No, we just need to not have our lives on the line every day. For a little while. Or ever. Retirement's not a terrible idea. I mean, what's the takeaway here, from Scanlan? Can't hold anything in. Fuck. You know that I've always looked up to you, for everything? That I've tried to model myself after you. Do you know that? And you. You know that she's my best friend, right? You know that.
Marisha: 'Course.
Liam: You know that I'm madly in love with her, right? You know that, right? We don't need to joke about it or dance around it anymore. You know that I'm in love with her, right?
Laura: Obviously.
Liam: Obviously.
Marisha: What are you getting at, Vax?
Liam: I just don't-- He left because he felt like we didn't know him. I'm scared to death about what I have to give to a fucking god, eventually. I'm scared of that. I don't want to do that, but it's going to happen, and it's destiny. I'm scared about that. There. That's out. Do you have anything that you're holding in? You're in love with Percival. We all know that, right? It's plain as day, right?
Laura: My take-away from Scanlan is that we all talk too much. And I leave the room.
Marisha: And then I look at Vax and Percy, and say--
Taliesin: Oh, I'm not there.
Matt: Percy's not there
Marisha: Oh, sorry. Vax and--
Matt: Pike.
Marisha: --Pike, and say  And my takeaway is that maybe we were forgetting who we were before we all banded together. And then I leave the room.
Sam: They're all individually going to the room next door. (all laugh)
Matt: Yeah, they're all just congregating in the next chamber.
Laura: And that's where Scanlan's waiting.
Taliesin: It's like a Black Mirror episode
Sam: Everyone's reading highlights.
Liam: Crack out the aerator, yo.
Travis: Highlights.
Laura: Blacklight.
Marisha: It's the basement in Westworld. We all just go catatonic.
Matt: Pike kinda walks up to you as they walk out of the room and puts her gauntleted hand on your shoulder and just says, "We all make mistakes, I make 'em a lot."
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: You have a lot of other people to look up to, aside from just me.
Liam: I've learned that.
Matt: His path is his own. And he'll come back. Right?
Liam: I don't know. But he's our friend. I like having him around.
Matt: Me too. (sighs) Let's get a drink.
Liam: What? MATT Let's get a drink.
Liam: Let's get a drink. You wanna go in town?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: All right.
Marisha: I chase down Vex, and we do the same thing.
Matt: You guys all individually find your way through the rest of the afternoon to discuss, cope with and ruminate on the separation of Scanlan. Going through all the different emotions you feel that are necessary, and whatever activities you proceed to distract yourself with. Grog.
Laura: (laughs) Crying in a corner.
Liam: (mock-crying)
Travis: Crying on bosoms. (mock-crying) (all laugh)
Travis: I'll pay for this.
Matt: Yes, you will. That's extra. (all laugh)
Matt: And strangely not uncommon.
Liam: He's wrapping up the show, I can tell. So I came to give Sam a hug.
Laura: He's not! No, he's not!
Matt: He's not, actually. I don't know where you got that idea.
Liam: Well, I was just getting in a mid-game hug.
Matt: There you go! (laughs)
Taliesin: This is awkward.
Matt: You guys still got shit to do.
Laura: Guys, no. Stop it.
Matt: You guys made promises, you're still on a timeline for some things.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: You still have things to do.
Marisha: No, we know.
Taliesin: We know.
Liam: We know.
Matt: Don't take that as Sam closing the curtain here. Still got shit to do.
Liam: I know, but... I craved that, so I took it.
Matt: No, that's okay. Cross-table hugs are fine.
Taliesin: That was weird.
Matt: The next morning comes around, you're all in various states of hungover; should you have chosen to imbibe with the rest of the party.
Liam: Heavily.
Matt: Grog eventually wanders in, less hungover but more meek about how his previous day was.
Travis: Not my best night.
Marisha: I see Vax the next morning and I say, Look, your sister gave me one of her blue feathers. It's because this is the darkest timeline.
Laura: I come back and I take that off. I'm like, No, Keyleth, you took that from me when you were drunk last night, actually.
Marisha: It's because this is the darkest timeline and I stole it from you.
Liam: Pike and I come in wearing fun buns, hungover. My face hurts.
Laura: How is everyone?
Matt: She slaps you.
Travis: Amazing.
Matt: Does it still hurt?
Liam: Yeah, and also my face hurts as well.
Matt: Good.
Laura: Percy.
Taliesin: Good morning.
Laura: Morning.
Marisha: What did you do last night?
Taliesin: Worked.
Marisha: Worked? You were productive.
Taliesin: Well...
Marisha: You made the rest of us look and feel like shit?
Taliesin: I think we all have our ways of coping.
Marisha: What did you make?
Taliesin: Just some sketches.
Marisha: Did you bake a cake? I hope you baked a cake.
Taliesin: There's no cake.
Marisha: I really want coffee cake right now, Percy.
Taliesin: There are people for that.
Liam: You look like me.
Laura: Squish-squish. Squish-squish.
Liam: You look like me. Why do you look like me?
Laura: You're still drunk. Sober up. It's a new day.
Liam: That's boring.
Laura: (laughs) Oh, shit! He could've broken his nose just then, I swear. Oh my god.
Marisha: Is it a new day?
Laura: It is.
Matt: It is.
Marisha: I thought it was still yesterday.
Taliesin: Oh hey, I've got all my hit dice back. That's nice.
Matt: Yeah, spells are back, you guys are healed.
Marisha: My staff is charged.
Laura: You're up from nine points.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Hey, wake up, fuck. Wake up. It's a new day. Open your eyes. Hey.
Matt: Pike casts Restoration on Vax.
Laura: Hey, you're not drunk anymore, look at that.
Liam: I feel good. (all laugh)
Travis: All right. So, what? First step is the most important one, right?
Taliesin: Well, as far as I know we have three things still on our plate.
Matt: Which ones?
Taliesin: We've got a hand.
Liam: Hotis.
Taliesin: We've got the ashari, and we've got a demon.
Marisha: We also have research we have to look at that we got from that lair of Raishan's.
Travis: What's the hand?
Laura: We have to give Ripley's hand to those guys in Marquet. I think that's the easy one.
Liam: That seems like the quickest.
Matt: That's definitely the quickest.
Travis: Let's try that.
Liam: My mental acuity's on point.
Marisha: I feel like if I teleport I'm gonna puke.
Matt: Pike grabs a bucket. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I run to the kitchen. I put together something that is not quite, but probably a hot sauce, with half a raw egg, and shot of something that is quite possibly but not quite some sort of fantasy variant of tequila.
Marisha: You are not--
Taliesin: Swirl it all up.
Marisha: -- frat-boy one-shotting me this.
Taliesin: This is a thing.
Liam: That's science. Listen to Percy. That's science, you need that and you need a traditional Whitestone breakfast.
Laura: It's super good, Keyleth, really.
Taliesin: Yeah, just get it down, just get it down.
Marisha: Why this?
Taliesin: Don't look at it.
Liam: Just listen to the science guy and chug-a-lug.
Travis: Bottoms up.
Taliesin: I was kidding. You shouldn't actually drink that.
Marisha: Fuck you, motherfucker!
Taliesin: Can I get a roll damage? (all laugh)
Taliesin: I've done something very similar to that on many a morning.
Marisha: We need to look at this research. We need to figure out what Raishan had going on.
Laura: My brain hurts from crying so much yesterday.
Marisha: I know. Are my eyes puffy?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Do I have bags under my-- thank you.
Taliesin: You're welcome.
Liam: You wear it well.
Matt: So what's the plan. What's up first?
Taliesin: Let's take a quick look at what we got from the cave.
Laura: Maybe bring Allura and Gilmore in here, because we have that book that seemed very nefarious.
Marisha: I help Percy figure things out.
Matt: Okay. From the things that you gathered off, a lot of them were candle-holders, there were various reagents, some of them rotted or dried out, a number of books and tomes, some that deal with poisons, various alchemy. Actually, a similar book to the one that you found earlier in your travels, but an older version of it. And there is the one large tome that you acquired that had the more nefarious-looking leather-bound exterior, the thicker piece.
Travis: I'll read this.
Laura: No, don't touch it, Grog, I don't trust it. I want Allura or Gilmore to look at it first.
Matt: The easiest person to find here would probably be Allura, in the castle. Well, no, because Allura's off in Emon helping with the destruction. Gilmore would be the only one you could really speak to currently.
Laura: Or Eskil.
Matt: Or Eskil. But he's a little wary of you at the moment. (laughs)
Laura: I just keep making people wary of me.
Matt: All right, so you go ahead and you bring Gilmore in?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. And it's easy enough to bring in. He's just waking up. (yawns) "So, what can I help you with?"
Laura: Hi.
Taliesin: We found this. Be careful, it was with Raishan.
Matt: He takes it, he sits down and places it on his lap, and tugs on his braided goatee. "This smells like shit."
Taliesin: Several things have died on top of it.
Liam: I give my armor a sniff.
Matt: Smells-- different kind of shit, but shit nonetheless. He takes a look over it. "This has a very faint magical essence to it. Let me go ahead and--" He looks over it for a second, his eyes glow with that same arcane purplish energy that flares when he does the Identify spell. Looks over it. "This is an evil book. Reading this would be informative, but would certainly have a cost."
Travis: Like, money?
Matt: Soul-money.
Laura: Soul-money.
Travis: Do we have any of that in the bag of holding?
Laura: I don't think we do. Not anymore.
Matt: Wouldn't recommend it, Grog.
Taliesin: What do you recommend we do with this book?
Matt: Well, if you ever feel like you want some light reading. Or find somebody who's foolish enough to read it. Or at least has the willpower to push through its dark enchantments. I have no idea.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Laura: Let's just keep that in a--
Taliesin: Going to vault that for the moment.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: You're saying somebody could read it, but they'd have to make it all the way through the end.
Matt: I don't want to look into it, I'll put it that way. But somebody with a strong enough mental aptitude to be able to not be corrupted by its dark magics. It's my recommendation at the very least.
Taliesin: Not anyone in this room, is what he's saying.
Travis: Right. What else have we got?
Taliesin: I say hand. It's simple, to the point.
Laura: I agree.
Liam: I agree. One and done.
Taliesin: And we can find the ashari on the way back.
Marisha: Yeah, we can.
Travis: All right.
Laura: This feels wrong.
Travis: It feels different.
Liam: Ah, it feels wrong.
Marisha: That's not on us, though, it's on him.
Laura: Can you scry?
Marisha: Me?
Laura: Yeah. See where he is, what he's doing.
Marisha: I pull out the scrying eye. Can I hold it out in front-- this is kind of flavor-- and I let it levitate in front.
Matt: It locks itself in place and slowly rotates.
Marisha: Can I open it like a fortune-teller's spying sphere type of crystal--
Laura: And just like project it on the wall behind her so we can watch it like that movie.
Matt: The vision comes to you. It doesn't quite do that.
Marisha: That would be really awesome.
Travis: Can I make it Imax?
Matt: I want that HD download, not the SD.
Marisha: 5.1 Dolby digital surround.
Liam: Whoa, it's all around me!
Marisha: Oh my god, so many lagging issues.
Travis: What's he rolling for?
Laura: To see if he senses it, maybe.
Liam: You don't know.
Matt: So what's your wisdom modifier?
Sam: Me?
Matt: Your wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Negative two.
Laura: Wait, what did you roll?
Matt: What'd you roll?
Sam: I got a two total. But I get advantage against magic.
Matt: You do.
Sam: That's a 17.
Matt: Plus your-- what's your wisdom saving throw bonus?
Sam: I mean, that's 19, my wisdom is negative two.
Matt: Oh, minus two. Got you. And your spell DC is--
Marisha: Oh, I'm spying on those bitches.
Matt: Okay, so. You get a brief view of what looks to be Scanlan, wearing his regular outfit and armor now.
Marisha: He took his armor off? He's just regular clothes?
Laura: No, he walked out in a fucking nightgown.
Matt: He walked out in a nightgown.
Marisha: Oh, right, yeah.
Matt: Through this whole emotional circumstance, he was in a nightgown. But he is currently, he's walking through the Parchwood Forest that surrounds Whitestone. He is on the path south.
Marisha: South of Whitestone?
Matt: Yeah. South of Whitestone. To his left is Kaylie, and they're both with their sacks over their shoulders, and they're just hiking through the forest. They're, at the moment, not talking, but they're both slightly smiling. Just kind of enjoying the journey, and the company. And you just watch them walk for a little bit through the thick tree canopy above, the well-worn path that heads south and out of the Parchwood.
Marisha: He looks content. Happy, even.
Laura: That's good.
Liam: Yeah, good on him.
Travis: Can you yell at him?
Marisha: I feel like he's like flicking off a bunch of trees now. I don't know. He was always an odd one.
Liam: To be fair, he did that about seven times a day. (all laugh)
Marisha: He did, yeah.
Liam: For no reason.
Marisha: I never knew his animosity toward trees.
Matt: You never know.
Sam: Just in case.
Marisha: I don't know. (all laugh)
Liam: Just in case.
Laura: Just in case.
Marisha: Just really hates oaks.
Liam: Raven Queen, demons, you never know who's looking over your shoulder.
Laura: We should've invited Kaylie to come with us. They could've stayed--
Liam: They don't want that.
Marisha: I have a feeling there's little chance we could talk him out of it. Well! All right. He's living a nice, happy, content, low-key life now. Let's continue on.
Liam: Yeah, and why shouldn't he, he earned it.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, he did
Liam: He earned it.
Travis: (quietly) Dick. (louder) Sorry, what?
Laura: Yeah, right.
Marisha: He saved the world, what more could we ask of anybody?
Travis: Let's go. What clears the brain better than travel? (sniffs) Or sex.
Liam: Wait, stop, stop. I was about to say you sounded very wise, don't fuck it up. Just, period.
Travis: Period.
Liam: Travel and sex. Done.
Marisha: You know, there's merit to that. All right, let's go.
Laura: As we head to the tree, I pull Grog aside, and I ask him: Are you all right, Grog? I mean, I know, I know you got your lady favors out of the way and all that, but... Scanlan was your bestie, right? Outside of Pike.
Travis: Yeah, I'm just bummed, because I'm glad he's alive--
Laura: Well, yeah.
Travis: I think that's what keeps us from being terrible. But like-- (sniffs) I only trust like a few people in the world. You, Scanlan, and Pike. And now it's just you and Pike.
Laura: Me and Pike?
Travis: No, I mean I trust the others, right, but like... I know you on a more intimate level.
Laura: Cause you saw my titties?
Travis: Pretty much.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah. Um.
Marisha: That's literally it. I don't know if they've ever had, like, an in depth conversation. (all laugh)
Travis: So.
Laura: Right.
Travis: That's all. I just-- I just feel a little more sad on the inside. But I'm all right.
Laura: I'm sorry, Grog.
Travis: Yeah. I'm glad he's okay.
Laura: Me too.
Marisha: Show him your titties again.
Laura: Do you want to see them? Would that make you feel better?
Travis: No, it's not right, right now.
Laura: Yeah, no, it didn't feel right, I just wanted to... all right.
Travis: Yeah, you know. It's... mmm. You know. (all laugh)
Travis: I appreciate the offer.
Matt: As you walk your way down to the center of Whitestone, to the Sun Tree--
Liam: It's so touching and ridiculous at the same time.
Matt: I know. You recall that in the center of the city itself, Ank'harel, as it acts as one of the largest oases in the center of the central Marquet desert, there are a number of larger trees of various types, and there's one not too far from the Suncut Bazaar, that you recall. You make that your designated tree, and upon casting the spell, you watch the Sun Tree, tear open the doorway, and you step across--
Marisha: As I cast the spell, I just say, Hey, Sun Tree? Watch over Scanlan and Kaylie, okay? And then go though.
Matt: You step through. Okay. You all emerge on the outskirts of the Suncut Bazaar. At this point in time, it would be the beginning of-- just past dusk. The sun has gone down in Ank'harel. But you can still see the oranges and reds and purples of the recent sunset in the distance. The city is bustling. Lanterns are alight all throughout. The bazaar itself and all the various multicolored towers and structures and buildings, the beautiful city just stretch up in all directions around you. You can see the bazaar itself is lively with carts that are open, shouting as various barkers are peddling their wares. It's a very upbeat atmosphere, and one that's a stark change to the Whitestone you just stepped away from.
Liam: And the sun is going down, you said?
Matt: The sun has already gone down.
Liam: After we just woke up.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Jet lag.
Laura: We fucked up.
Matt: Yeah. Other part of the world.
Taliesin: Jet lag.
Liam: Yeah. What?
Taliesin: Tree lag.
Marisha: Tree lag.
Liam: It's a bitch.
Matt: (laughs) Tree lag.
Marisha: It's the worst.
Matt: You guys begin making your way toward the Debt's Respite, which is the tavern that housed the Scarbearers. This is where Treev Bonebreaker was when you last discussed the return of Ripley's hand--
Laura: Right.
Matt: -- as the assassin that killed one of their own. And you're returning this hand to absolve yourselves of implication in this murder.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: Since you discovered the body.
Taliesin: I'm, for the record, not wearing the cloak when we do this.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hey!
Marisha: Hey!
Matt: Good point!
Taliesin: And just for the record, I know I'll get yelled at for twitter on this. I have informed my sister where I'm going and what's going on. Not just going willy-nilly.
Matt: Right, right, Cassandra is aware. All right. You guys walk through, you catch a few eyes as you are not just outsiders walking through Ank'harel, but you're all adorned in, you know, beautiful artifact armor--
Laura: Right, we didn't put on our--
Matt: Magical weapons--
Liam: God wear.
Matt: God wear, essentially. And as you walk toward the Debt's Respite tavern, on the outside you can see, there's what looks to be an eight-and-a-half-foot tall, humanoid, golem-like metallic construct. It looks similar to a golem, but it's smaller. Like the iron golems you've fought before, but it's smaller in scale.
Liam: Like the one we fought in J'mon's.
Matt: Yeah, J'mon's, but much smaller. It's less bulky, and more just a functional, tall, metallic humanoid-type construct.
Liam: Protocol droid.
Matt: Yeah. You see it's clutching--
Marisha: (gasps) It's basically the Vision?
Matt: A little more ramshackle in construct.
Marisha: Ah, okay.
Matt: It's clutching a leather tome in one hand that is open, and is holding what looks to be a quill in the other, and it's just standing there quietly. To the front of it you see, almost waiting outside the tavern in the process of thumbing through some satchels, you see a handsome human male. Late 30s or so, with shoulder length, feathered, dirty blond hair and blue-green eyes, a well groomed goatee adorning his dashing smirk as he turns and looks across you and very quickly the eyes very overtly take in and categorize your decor, your dress, your stature. And the smile grows even wider. His frame is svelte, he's adorned a set of polished, immaculate breastplate armor with numerous satchels all around him, and he carries a silver helmet under his arm that shines with many, many embedded gems: diamonds, opals. Just an opulent-looking figure who's wearing what looks to be barely used, or at least very well-kept armor and jewelry and adornments. Immediately catches their attention.
Sam: You there!
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: You lot! Hello! Wow! Who are you all? Look at this, magical items from head to toe. Why, I've never seen anything quite like it.
Liam: Pouring it on a little thick, friend. What's up?
Sam: Doty, come here, will you? Take this down.
Matt: (stomping and creaking sounds) And you watch as the giant construct takes a few steps forward and begins writing into the book.
Sam: In my travels through--
Laura: Fuck! It's a kleenex, it doesn't work! You piece of shit!
Liam: God dammit.
Marisha: That couldn't have been more uncanny!
Laura: Fuck! I didn't want to throw something hard at him.
Marisha: Hoooly shit.
Liam: Fucking. Hell. (bangs table)
Sam: Doty. Doty, take this down  In my travels in Anh'karel, I have never seen so many magical items in one place. But then I saw them, walking up to me, and I knew I had met some very special people. That's it for now. Hello! Nice to meet you all. The name is Taryon Darrington. (all laugh)
Marisha: Darrien Darriton? Sam: Tary-ann-- Taryon Darrington.
Marisha: Darrington.
Sam: My friends just call me Tary. And I'm a bit of an adventurer. I've been traveling around this continent for a while, trying to tick off things off of my list, and I've had a few scraps and scrapes. And I'm looking for more adventure. I was travelling with a band of ne'er do wells that I had hired and, well, let's just say many of them were killed. Heh. SO. I was looking to employ a ragtag group of people, elves, whatever you are. To accompany me, sort of be my side men, if you will.
Laura: (disgruntled) Oh.
Sam: How much would a band like you cost for a day?
Laura: 50,000 gold.
Sam: Oh. That's nothing. Would you--
Travis: An hour.
Sam: I'm sorry?
Laura: 50,000 gold an hour.
Marisha: It's like our retainer fee.
Laura: (quietly) Good thinking, Grog.
Sam: Well, I tend to employ people on a month-by-month basis, and you get a cut of the treasure as we go, of course. We can work out the particulars, but are you in fact, guns and-- or, not guns. Swords-for-hire?
Travis: What, are you going after treasure?
Sam: I'm going after many things. I have a long list of things I want to tick off.
Travis: Are you famous?
Sam: Of course I am. You haven't heard of... Well, you haven't heard of me yet because my book hasn't come out yet. Doty here is recording my legendary adventures as I travel around the continents.
Travis: How thick is the book?
Matt: It's pretty thick. Make a perception check.
Travis: (surprised) Oh.
Laura: Wow.
Travis: 18!
Matt: Okay. It's a pretty thick book, but it looks like Doty is maybe a third into it. A fourth.
Travis: Lots of scribbles in that book.
Sam: Yes, I haven't settled on a title yet. It will either be-- "Tary's Adventures". It's sort of lame, sort of lame. Or it could be "Daring Adventures of Darrington" or it could be "Tarry On with Taryon". Or something like that, I'm working on the title, I have a while to finish it.
Laura: (sarcastic) They're all very clever.
Taliesin: The Daring Trial and Tribulations of Tary Darrington.
Sam: That's fantastic! Doty, please write that down.
Matt: (creaks and squeaks)
Sam: I knew you were special when I ran into you all, my goodness.
Liam: Hey, buddy boy, we have to go to the Nine Hells in the not too distant future, are you down for that?
Sam: Well. Hold on, let me check my list.... that is on the list. It was... lower down, but, it's another thing I have to tick off before I'm a real adventurer! So, I'm up for anything if you are.
Liam: Hm. I do not like you.
Marisha: This fucking asshole, am I right? This fucking asshole.
Travis: Can I insight check Asshole?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Liam: Look at this willing accomplice motherfucker!
Marisha: I know!
Laura: You piece of shit, both of you.
Marisha: You're all pieces of shit.
Laura: I'm so angry at everything right now.
Travis: Is it perception or what on that?
Matt: Insight.
Taliesin: It feels weird. New dad is wearing old dad's skin, and trying to do an impression of him and--
Marisha: (yelling) I don't like change!
Liam: Who cares about the whisper, what's going on, Sam?
Marisha: Bullshit.
Taliesin: Tell us about the LootCrate, Sam! Tell us about the LootCrate.
Laura: How dare you, Samuel? (gasps) He has a new character sheet. I'm going to cry, again.
Taliesin: Ah! Mother lied. Ah.
Laura: I'm going to cry again. Nope. I hate Tary. He's a dick.
Travis: We are actually--
Marisha: You're going to make Laura cry. Look what you've done.
Travis: We are currently under--
Taliesin: Dick.
Marisha: (yelling) Fuck you, Ryan Green! Fuck you!
Liam: This show is breaking apart because of you, Sam!
Marisha: You were part of this too!
Liam: Show me on the character sheet where the bad DM touched you.
Matt: So, bringing it back to current conversation at hand.
Travis: We are currently employed right now. We're on a very, very dangerous mission.
Laura: A super important mission.
Travis: However, it ends here. So, if you have the coin, and maybe if you prove yourself not to be too much of a lag-behind. Percy, what do you feel like--
Taliesin: I'm just saying, look, it's not like we don't have business right now. You seem... what does he seem like?
Marisha: Yeah, what do you do, Tary?
Sam: I'm an adventurer!
Travis: He's an adventurer. (all laugh)
Taliesin: You seem like a person, and that's great.
Travis: Like Kenneth Branagh in Harry Potter.
Liam: He seems like a prat.
Taliesin: I'm trying not to judge at the moment, and--
Liam: That's what you do.
Taliesin: I know. I've had a bad day.
Marisha: We trust you to judge.
Travis: What does he do?
Sam: That's my biographer, Doty.
Travis: Does he just write stuff?
Sam: If I tell him to. He also has other skills.
Laura: What does he have?
Sam: Many things. I can grant powers to many people. For instance: you, Little Elf Girl, what's your name?
Travis: (laughs) (quietly) I'm gonna move over here.
Marisha: Hell no. Oh-ho-ho-ho.
Taliesin: I take it back, I like him.
Liam: Wait, I'm stealthing.
Matt: Flames on the side of my face. Fire. Heaving breaths.
Marisha: Keyleth uses a fog cantrip and just fades into the alleyway.
Liam: I rolled a 33 on stealth, I'm gone!
Taliesin: And I just hex into the shadows.
Marisha: It's like we're in a Western when they cut back to the tavern and everyone's gone.
Matt: Basically.
Laura: I walk up to him. What kind of adventurer are you if you've never heard of Vox fucking Machina?
Sam: Ooh! Is that a band of evildoers, is that a roving goliath horde?
Laura: Where the fuck have you been? Who are you? No really, who the fuck are you?
Sam: My name is Taryon Darrington, I am an adventurer, and I have more recently set out on my journey, that is true.
Laura: This armor looks very new.
Sam: I have not seen so many real battles yet, but I have fought many beasts.
Laura: Mm.
Sam: There was one, it was a smallish beholder, and my men took it out into a field for me and sort of roughed it up for me, and then when the time was right for the kill, they said "Come on in and kill it!" And I came in and used my powers and killed it and I checked it off the list.
Laura: Oh, I see.
Sam: Yes. It was so thrilling.
Travis: Your men, are you--
Laura: The ones that died.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: Right?
Sam: They also perished, that was a different group, yes.
Laura: Wonderful.
Sam: But they were well-paid before they went, and I'm sure they sent some of the money home. Some of them, I think they do that, typically.
Travis: What else is on your list, what're you looking for?
Sam: I've got a long list of beasts and animals I'd like to slay--
Travis: Just give me one.
Sam: Uh, naga, I think that's how you say it.
Laura: That is how you say it. TRAVIS. It's actually nah-jah.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: (laughs) Nah-jah!
Sam: I've already gotten a smaller beholder. Someday I'd like to see a dragon, maybe have a crack at it or two.
Laura: Oh, I'm sure you'd take it out in no time, dear.
Taliesin: Right.
Marisha: Man, I fucking hate this guy.
Sam: I feel like you're condescending to me! I'm not, I'm not a dullard, here. I can do a lot of things! My wealth has bought me many different artifacts from my travels, and they all do majorly magical things.
Travis: What kind of weapons does he have on him?
Sam: I have a rod.
Laura: An Immovable Rod?
Travis: Is it movable?
Sam: No, it's whatever I want it to be. Sword!
Matt: You watch as the rod all of a sudden transforms into this sudden liquid, metal-like visage, and then solidifies into a longsword.
Sam: Fire!
Matt: It bursts into flames.
Travis: Now that is fucking great.
Sam: It's fucking cool, isn't it?!
Laura: How much money did that cost?
Sam: Oh, like, 400,000 gold or something? It was a lot of money. I don't quite... Doty keeps the facts and figures. Doty, can you show me that piece of the book?
Matt: (mechanical squeaks, pages turning, squeaks). Turns it around.
Sam: That's embarrassing.
Matt: Shows the page to you and you glance through it, and the actual construction of the item cost you upwards around 65 to 70,000 gold.
Laura: That's it?!
Matt: It's a lot of money.
Laura: Well I know, but--
Travis: So wait, you want to come with us, or you want us to come with you?
Sam: I don't have a current adventure right now. Fire off. Still getting used to some of the contraptions.
Laura: Tell you what, Tary? 50,000 gold and you can follow us right now as we finish this very adventurous errand we're running.
Marisha: What! Vex!
Travis: Yeah!
Marisha: What?!
Laura: 50,000 gold. Small fee.
Sam: What kind of adventure is this, again? You mentioned you're going to do something very dangerous.
Laura: It's so dangerous.
Travis: So dangerous.
Laura: We're going into this dangerous--
Sam: Can you tell me what it is?
Laura: I'm afraid I can't, it's very--
Travis: It's a test of your reflexes, on point, how you handle things you're not quite ready for.
Sam: I could limber up, sure.
Liam: I stealth up behind Keyleth and rest my chin on her shoulder and just say Whaaat the fuuuuck. (all laugh)
Marisha: And I just say I knoooow. Um, Vex.
Laura: What?
Taliesin: One moment, sir. Huddle.
Marisha: Huddle. Is 50,000 dollars worth dealing with this annoying piece of shit?
Laura: While we go drop off a hand?
Marisha: Look, it just feels like when your guinea pig dies as a kid and then you immediately get another guinea pig to replace it? This doesn't feel good.
Travis: You don't like him, right?
Laura: You think he's replacing Scanlan?
Marisha: No! I just, I don't want another guinea pig!
Laura: This piece of shit would never replace Scanlan.
Marisha: He's a fabricator! He gets ghostwriters to write all of his books, I bet he does!
Liam: He's a schmuck.
Travis: He probably does. Keyleth, you don't like him very much, right?
Marisha: I don't like new people right now, as of yesterday!
Travis: But like, 50,000 gold and we have ourself a very flamboyant distraction if we need it.
Laura: Think about it, for 50,000 gold, we're only 15,000 gold away from getting one of those fucking flaming swords!
Sam: While they're talking, I'm working on my rod. Battleaxe!
Laura: Look at how fucking cool that rod is!
Travis: He's in. He's fucking in.
Marisha: No!
Travis: Look at the battle axe! Holy shit!
Marisha: You guys, he's like the worst alter-ego version of Percy! He's a rich kid who just buys all of his cool toys. No offense, Percy.
Taliesin: None taken. (all laugh)
Marisha: It's true though! He's not legit!
Liam: I don't like him either, but I'll just say two words: Hotis bait.
Taliesin: Yes, that's my thought.
Laura: Maybe he is Hotis.
Marisha: Oh yeah, what if he is Hotis?
Travis: He's not.
Marisha: How do you know, Grog?
Liam: He hasn't tried to seduce me.
Travis: I'm a dark wizard.
Laura: I've always known.
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm not going to pretend I'm not mildly entertained by the distraction at the very least. We just have to drop off a hand.
Marisha: And then he's gonna take credit for dropping off a hand, like it's some crazy, miraculous thing!
Laura: Let him take credit for the hand.
Taliesin: Do you want credit for dropping off a hand?
Marisha: No! I don't care. It's the principle of the matter!
Travis: Is there a fighting arena in Marquet, or anywhere we could find a scrap if we wanted to?
Matt: I mean, I believe there is. Let me find the name of it real fast.
Taliesin: We also could report in to a certain dragon about things that have happened.
Laura: We actually need to because we promised Jarett we would talk to J'mon.
Liam: So many things to do.
Taliesin: Let's just--
Liam: While Grog's thinking about that, I pull him aside and say Did I ever show you I know how to summon a dragon, d'you know how to do that?
Travis: No.
Liam: Watch and learn from my hand symbols. What do you think of that, big guy?
Travis: And I grab his hands with the Titanstone Knuckles--
Liam: Ow! Ow!
Travis: -- and squeeze.
Liam: Jeepers creepers, you've killed my dragon!
Marisha: Grog! Grog!
Travis: Don't --
Marisha: Grog! Grog!
Travis: -- summon the dragon. Uh, what?
Marisha: Grog, no, no, let go, Grog drop it, Grog drop --
Travis: -- baby dragon
Marisha: Drop it, drop it, good boy!
Liam: See if I ever do anything nice for you again! Jeez!
Travis: Well, I thought you were being taken over. D'you need me to make sure you're all right?
Taliesin: Very proud of you Grog.
Liam: Will you kiss it? I thought so. And I walk away.
Marisha: Grog.
Travis: He comes. C'mon.
Liam: We are fucking slap-happy.
Taliesin: C'mon then.
Travis: Besides I wanna see him get in a fight, let's audition him at least.
Taliesin: Vex, let's let the money tag along.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: It'll be fine.
Marisha: Okay, but I'm--
Laura: C'mon, pretty boy, let's go.
Marisha: -- gonna be pouty about this.
Sam: Doty, take this down. As the group turned around, I knew I had them. (all laugh)
Sam: And our adventure was about to begin. End chapter. (all laugh)
Laura: I hate him so much!
Marisha: I hate him so much!
Travis: I love him.
Liam: I miss Scanlan! (all laugh)
Matt: As you guys decide against your better judgment to accept your companion for the time being--
Liam: Don't like that word!
Matt: -- you make your way into the Debt's Respite Tavern to meet with Treev Bonebreaker and deliver the right hand.
Laura: Wait, wait, I wanted that gold up front!
Sam: Oh! I don't carry 50,000 gold with me on my person!
Laura: Well, you carry platinum, how much do you have?
Sam: I-- not--
Laura: Doty, how much platinum does he have on him right now?
Sam: Doty, go ahead and speak.
Matt: No response.
Sam: Go ahead, Doty, speak.
Laura: Doty!
Sam: Oh, that's right, Doty can't speak. Doty's a machine.
Laura: Doty, show me the ledger. How much platinum does he have on his person right now?
Matt: There's no response.
Liam: (robot beeping sound effects)
Sam: Doty only listens to me. If you had some sort of a pet, you would understand.
Travis: (gasps) Oh, I'm gonna love Tary so much!
Marisha: Vex! Vex, kick his ass!
Travis: I'm gonna love him so much.
Marisha: Kick his ass, Vex!
Laura: Gold up front or you don't join us.
Sam: How about this? I'll give you a little present, just for you, little elf girl. And I flip her a silver coin that I have put a spell into. I've put--
Laura: I don't catch the coin.
Marisha: You're like all the bad things about the internet as a character.
Laura: It's a piece of shit silver coin, I don't need your stupid silver coin.
Sam: It's a special coin, you should pick it up.
Taliesin: Did he flip the coin at her?
Matt: He did.
Taliesin: I was thinking of intercepting it anyway so--
Matt: Okay. It would be easy to do with your Gloves of Missile Snaring.
Taliesin: Yeah, I have Gloves of Missile Snaring. I intercept it.
Sam: Well, that was for the elf girl but all right, sure, you can use it too. When you need it, if you just hold that coin up, you'll turn invisible.
Travis: Seriously? An invisible-making coin?
Marisha: No! Grog, no! Do not show satisfaction in the things he says.
Travis: This is just my gut reaction though. MARISHA. Even if you're impressed, we pretend like we're not. Pretend like you're not impressed.
Taliesin: I'm not saying I can't be bought--
Liam: You said that very loud.
Sam: Hey, big man.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Look at this. Heavy crossbow!
Travis: It's the most amazing thing!
Marisha: Grog!
Travis: I mean, hold on! Not impressed.
Sam: You can shoot it!
Travis: I wanna shoot it! (all laugh)
Travis: (bvvm!)
Matt: (tsoo!)
Travis: Yeah, oh shit, take it back.
Matt: You have no idea where it went, it arced way out of your line of sight.
Sam: That was pretty good.
Travis: That's cool.
Sam: Yes!
Travis: He stays.
Taliesin: Let's get the hand to its final destination.
Laura: Ugh!
Travis: Or you can kill him and take the weapon later.
Laura: I will.
Liam: He's slow. None of the rest of us like you, so fucking watch it, all right?
Laura: We're such dicks!
Sam: And with that we embarked on our new adventure! The adventures of, what was it again?
Taliesin: (sighs)
Liam: What a dillweed!
Sam: This is going to be fun, fun, fun! (all laugh)
Matt: As you walk into the Debt's Respite Tavern, we're gonna end tonight's session there and pick this up next week. (all cheer, groan, yell)
Liam: You break our hearts and then pull that asshole out?
Laura: You asshole! How dare you? How dare you?
Taliesin: Unbelievable!
Matt: Oh, it's beautiful.
Laura: I am so angry at you!
Marisha: You were on the Critical Role wikia last night weren't you?
Travis: Tary berry.
Taliesin: Yes, he was, he has it all--
Sam: Tary Darrington.
Liam: You ain't know all our characters' mothers' names, you motherfucker.
Sam: I know all of your parents' names.
Liam: After Googling that shit!
Sam: Because I love you!
Laura: Whatever!
Sam: I love you so much!
Laura: Sam you're the least-- you don't care about any of it!
Sam: I am the most sincere!
Laura: You're a dick!
Travis: That was amazing.
Liam: It was amazing, it was amazing.
Taliesin: I love that-- I wish that everyone could see that the crew is in utter revolt behind us right now.
Marisha: Yes! Get him! Get him!
Taliesin: And they've all got nerf guns!
Laura: Get him! Get him! He deserves it!
Liam: You're tearing this family apart!
Taliesin: You're tearing this family apart!
Sam: No, I'm Tary-ing this-- Tarying this--
Matt: Tary-ing this family apart, oh my god! (all laugh)
Matt: Thank you Loot Crate for sponsoring us. You guys are awesome. Much love to you guys, have a wonderful week. We'll see you soon. Is it Thursday yet?
Taliesin: Big hand for Sam Riegel, holy shit! [ART]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons.
Travis: That's what we do!
Matt: Yep! So, welcome. We had a brief break last week as Liam brought us through his delightfully dark and twisted mind. Thank you again, Liam, for running that.
Laura: Creepy!
Liam: I went to Catholic school!
Matt: It was awesome.
Marisha: Why am I not surprised?
Matt: So, anyway, glad you could join us. Before we jump into tonight's game, we have some quick announcements to make. First and foremost, you want to talk about some new merch stuff that just got in there? What the hell you've got right there?
Marisha: What's that?
Ashley: What are these?
Laura: What are these? These shirts are in the store right now! And the color, and they're so soft, I'll be petting you guys throughout the whole night.
Liam: They're soft like the hoodie. They're like a thin version of the soft hoodie.
Laura: If you have the Gilmore shirt, it feels like the Gilmore shirt. Also, the Critical Role dice are coming back in stock very soon, but they are on preorder right now in the store. You can go in and get on that. We also have the CR enamel pin back in stock, so you can check that shit out in the store right now. We'll wait.
Matt: Awesome. Let's see. There's a new Signal Boost coming out this week with kind of a cool person who hosted that. Who's that?
Travis: DM O'Drien!
Liam: I am not cool, so you are not talking about me.
Marisha: It's actually going to play during the break.
Liam: Oh yeah?
Marisha: Yeah!
Liam: So you can hear about all my artsy-fartsy theatrical sad hangups from the past? Oh joy, guys!
Marisha: Yeah, yeah! You'll like it! So stick around!
Matt: Look forward to that. And also, a reminder that MomoCon's coming up, end of next month, where Taliesin, Marisha and I will be guests and, as of recently, our good friend Brian Wayne Foster will also be joining us for a Talks Machina live panel at the event, which will be fun.
Matt: MomoCon!
Liam: Yeah, MomoCon is just fun to say. MomoCon.
Laura: We're all going to say it.
Matt: Yeah. So we'll be there, it'll be fun. It's May 25th to the 28th, in Atlanta, Georgia. Look forward to seeing you guys there.
Liam: Oh my gosh, oh my gosh!
Laura: Oh my, what? How? Why? (laughter)
Sam: It's the start of a new year.
Travis: Why doesn't it wrap around to the back?
Sam: I tried to get the eyes on my nipples.
Travis: Pull it down a little bit. Just give it a little tug. There it is.
Laura: I've never realized how large-- Wow, it's bulging. Those are some bulging eye sausages if I've ever seen them.
Matt: What's great is when you're not stretching it, it looks like that dumb FaceApp thing now where you can see your older version of yourself.
Laura: Have you noticed, the guys turn into girls so much better than the girls turn into guys? I mean, we look so terrible turning into--
Matt: I've seen some girl photos that turned out pretty good. Maybe it's just you guys.
Laura: You have to have your hair pulled back.
Matt: It might just be the three of you, I'm sorry. Although who did Ashley end up looking like?
Marisha: Haley Joel Osment.
Matt: Yeah, that worked out pretty well.
Ashley: Actually, a lot of people tell me that I look like him anyway.
Laura: Really?
Ashley: Him or-- I get--
Travis: Brad Pitt?
Laura: Yeah, definitely Brad Pitt.
Ashley: From the '80s band, it's a guy.
Travis: Keep going.
Ashley: Justin George?
Liam: Narrowed it down. Hum a melody.
Ashley: I can't think of a song. I'll think of it.
Liam: This is the whole episode.
Laura: And she'll just yell it out during the break. Travis makes a really ugly woman, though. I turned one of your pictures into a girl. I never should have done that.
Matt: I don't agree with that. I've seen Nip Tuck.
Travis: Thank you, Matt! Thank you.
Matt: A supportive significant other. Wednesday Club, Taliesin! Do you want to talk about Wednesday Club?
Taliesin: Actually, this one, it's going to be Matt Key is taking the reins on this one, so I don't even-- I'm not sure he's settled on what's going on, but I think we were talking about maybe Brian K. Vaughan and looking at his whole body of work, which would be a lot of fun.
Matt: There you go, that'll be fun.
Taliesin: TV writer and comic book writer. Could be cool.
Matt: Fantastic. And of course we have Talks Machina next Tuesday, live here on Twitch and Alpha at 7PM Pacific with our wonderful host, Brian Wayne Foster.
Travis: Except there won't be one.
Matt: Oh wait, there won't be one this week! Never mind, 'cause they're going to be on vacation.
Travis: 'Cause you're going out of the country. They're going to-- Where are you going, the North Pole?
Ashley: I wish we were going to the North Pole. We are going to Mexico!
Matt: Let's be nice and vague. Going to a place that's pretty.
Ashley: We're going to a place.
Matt: Which, as a note, as far as Brian was saying, you guys really haven't had a vacation together, ever.
Ashley: Never.
Matt: So, super excited that you guys have the chance to do that.
Ashley: We've almost been dating for five years and we've never gone on a vacation together.
Travis: Y'all are dating? (laughter)
Laura: Wait. What?
Matt: Well, that'll be fun. Yeah!
Marisha: Also, your Date with Matt Mercer in a Silk Robe, thanks to Brian Wayne Foster, will be up on YouTube tomorrow at 10AM.
Matt: Ho boy.
Marisha: Is that okay?
Matt: Yeah, it's fine. Prepare for a lot of port drinking.
Ashley: Boy George! Boy George! I get it a lot. I get that.
Laura: What? You don't look like-- With a lot of makeup, maybe?
Matt: Awesome, so tomorrow? All right, for those of you guys who missed it, you'll be able to see it tomorrow. No, that's fine, bring tissues.
Taliesin: That could go a number of ways.
Matt: That it can.
Taliesin: Sorry.
Matt: But no, thank you all. Thank you all who came on Tuesday to chat and talk and create some fun future characters for this storyline in the future, it'll be fun. Anyway, do we have anything else anyone wants to mention, or shall we continue?
Sam: Did you already do the shirts?
Matt: We did the shirts. That is so nightmarish, Sam.
Laura: I love it.
Sam: It's an homage.
Travis: It looks like Mercer's eating the table.
Matt: What I'm looking forward to is the eventuality that you have enough of these shirts that your closet has a section that's just my face.
Sam: Your face, my face.
Matt: Yeah, it's just this face is printed, and just having your wife eventually come up to me and having you go--
Sam: I might have enough that we can all wear one one night. (laughter)
Sam: Let me think on that.
Matt: All righty, then, without further ado, let's jump into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back, everyone. So, last we left off, Vox Machina, having completed a multitude of various quests over a prolonged period of time, found themselves free of immediate necessity and danger.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Brought peace to the world forever.
Matt: No, that's not true.
Marisha: Nothing bad will ever happen again.
Matt: (laughs) That's not how this works. (laughter)
Sam: Credits.
Matt: So, as the last episode wound down and friendships were strengthened, you all then began to ponder about what you wanted to do with the time before you. And today we return approximately one year after we left off. So, we met earlier this week to discuss this. We went through a various number of things you wanted to accomplish, both as individuals and some of you in groups. So we're going to go ahead and go over those elements for you guys and get everyone up to speed with what exactly has transpired in this year period of time.
Liam: Show and tell!
Matt: So, who would like to begin?
Sam: We're just going to share?
Laura: Just say what we did, what we accomplished?
Liam: Summer vacation!
Matt: Share elements of it, and then some elements will be roleplayed, because that's what I want to do.
Laura: Because that's what I want to do.
Matt: Yeah. So.
Travis: Are you pointing at me? Okay, okay. I'll start.
Matt: All right, so, Grog, what are some of the things you did?
Travis: Because I single-handedly established peace across Exandria, I found myself bored, in need of action. And so I sought out where the fight would now be. I looked for Scanlan a little bit along the way. I didn't find him.
Matt: No, you did not.
Travis: I looked for, like, magical items along the way. I didn't find them. So I went to Vasselheim, which is where the Slayer's Take is. And I think before I left, I wanted to get some personal things, like, done to my body. So I had the bear tattoo that I filleted of off Kevdak, and I had it tanned, and then I got a copy of that tattoo on my back.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Because that shit's behind me.
All: Ooh!
Matt: So you now have Kevdak's bear-totem tattoo that was on his chest, now on your back.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Out of sheer disrespect for him.
Travis: Totes.
Matt: I love it.
Liam: Did you get a bear ass on your bare ass?
Travis: Much better idea. I also took Kevdak's skull, the top of it, and I had a new cup, a new mug made out of it. With metal bits and stuff, with a handle.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. Okay.
Travis: I don't understand how, but it looks really great. It's like metal and bone, and I (drinking sounds). That's me.
Matt: That's delicious.
Travis: I just choked on a peanut.
Laura: Yeah. Oh Grog. I heard it happen.
Travis: So, I went to Vasselheim, and I defended my title in the Crucible.
Matt: Yeah. Met multiple times.
Travis: Multiple times.
Matt: Including once against a familiar individual called Kern the Hammer.
Travis: Kern the Hammer, he came back with that monk shit.
Matt: Yeah. And did not prevail.
Travis: Nope.
Matt: However, he did come back to you, requesting to learn and train under you, to teach him your ways. To which you said--
Travis: I forgot. No. Yes. I said yes.
Matt: You said no.
Travis: I said no. (laughter)
Matt: That's what you told me, at least.
Travis: I said no. I said no, because I was like, you've got to drink, all the time, and this, and he just wasn't up to snuff. That, and I should not be teaching anyone anything. So then I went to the Slayer's Take, right, in search of big game. And I had fun with that for a while, but it just wasn't quite the same. It wasn't crazy-ass, you know, ancient dragons or nothing. It just wasn't quite up to snuff. But I did have my curiosity about the Deck of Many Things piqued. So, at some point along the way, Vex's warnings ringing in my ears, I found a nice drunk sap to--
Matt: So, so, as you are wandering down an evening byway in the Quadroads of Vasselheim, a number of cups in yourself, you hiccup loudly and glance off to the side to find one gentleman who's been far deeper in his cups and is currently trying to steady himself against the stone wall in an alleyway.
Travis: Yup. Hey, you!
Matt: "What?"
Travis: You. You look like a mighty warrior. Do you need another drink?
Matt: "Oh, if you're buying, yeah."
Travis: Yeah, I do. I have one. And I pour him a little bit from the keg. Hey, do you have like, a wife, kids, attachments? Anyone that would miss you?
Matt: "You think if I did I'd be drinking this hard?"
Travis: I'm going to take that as a no. Cool, hey, look, I don't know if you're interested, but I have, in my possession, something really cool. And I take out the Deck. Do you know what this is?
Matt: "I have no idea."
Travis: Great! Great! We're in the street, right?
Matt: Yeah. You're near a thoroughfare and there's a small alley off to the side.
Travis: Good. Follow me into this alley and it'll be a deal. Just follow me over here.
Matt: Make a persuasion check. With advantage, because he's really drunk.
Marisha: For anyone who's watching, this is like, abduction, how to not-- 101, self-defense.
Matt: This is terrible.
Liam: I mean, he's either changing this guy's life for the better, or murdering him.
Travis: 19 plus one.
Matt: (laughs) You watch as in the center of his pupils a little sparkle of interest kicks in. And, I mean, five percent soberer at the prospect of something fun of this stranger that gave him a drink and goes: "Wait, what are you talking about?"
Travis: Well, listen. I am kind of like an evangelical spreader of good news. And I found this. And one time I pulled a card out and I got a magic weapon. It was amazing. And I just figured, like, you look like a guy that would appreciate such a weapon, so--
Matt: (belches)
Travis: -- and I open the Deck. I thought maybe you would like to draw a card.
Matt: He takes a second and looks around. Looks at the Deck. "Is this some sort of a magic trick?"
Travis: Yes. Yep.
Matt: "All right. Do you want me to tell you what it is?"
Travis: Sure. Yeah. Just draw it and-- Actually, just hold it and don't tell me what it is.
Matt: Okay. Let me get my cards out.
Laura: Oh my God.
Ashley: You have an actual set?
Laura: What the actual fuck is happening right now?
Travis: It was a fucking year. Did you not think this was going to happen? (laughter)
Travis: It probably happened in the first week.
Liam: This is the first of ten guys.
Travis: Lot of problems, lot of drinking, lot of fighting. Ran out of shit.
Sam: What if you die? What if you die right now?
Travis: I'm not. He's drawing the card.
Laura: Yeah, but you could still die.
Sam: It could kill-- It could kill you too.
Travis: Could it?
Sam: I think so.
Travis: I'm not really sure on how this shit works. But I need another card to come out of that Deck.
Matt: Yeah, maybe.
Laura: Oh my God. Oh no, what did he pull. What did he pull?
Matt: No. No. No. Huh. I'm going to let somebody else pull this. Who wants to pull it?
Travis: Oh, you raise your hand to pull from the Deck? Thats some bullshit.
Laura: Oh no. Should I turn it?
Travis: Ooh. Ooh.
Laura: Do you know what that is?
Travis: No, I don't remember.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: It's just, it looked ominous.
Travis: It was a face card, though.
Taliesin: It was a face card. Oh. Oh.
Matt: (laughs)
Laura: Oh no. Is it amazing? Did he get something really good?
Taliesin: You're the DM now.
Matt: Hold on. I have to roll a die first. (laughs) He takes the card and looks at it. Turns around and shows you, and it's this tarot card of a beautiful moonscape, with an open night sky. I believe that's what it is. Yeah, that's what it is. He puts it back in the Deck, and is like: "All right, what's the trick? I'm-- I'm feeling a little-- a little strange."
Travis: Could you describe to me how you feel right now?
Matt: And he's like trying to contemplate it. He goes: "Wait a second. I wish that I was a powerful lord of the Quadroads." And there's a strange, tingling visual image as the cloth around him that was tattered and worn-out becomes beautiful silks--
Laura: Oh my God.
Matt: The drunkenness fades from him ever-so-slightly, and now he looks washed. And you glance over at the far end of the alleyway, and there's a guy there who's dressed in long, long tails and a coat and goes: "Sir, how long are you going to be?" He goes: "Right with you. I don't even know what his name is. Well, thank you so much, stranger." And he pats you on the shoulder.
Travis: Grog. Grog.
Matt: "Grog."
Travis: Grog Strongjaw.
Matt: "Grog Strongthings."
Travis: Maker of kings.
Matt: "Great."
Travis: Yup.
Matt: "I still got one more of these." And he walks off and runs off to the carriage.
Laura: He got two wishes?
Matt: 1d3 wishes.
Travis: Are you fucking serious?
Sam: Wait, he got two wishes? You gave away two wishes?
Travis: (shouts) Wait! What was your name?
Matt: The queen of diamonds was the card.
Travis: Did I get his name?
Matt: You didn't get his name. He just runs off.
Taliesin: Lord of the Quadroads, now.
Sam: You just got a cure for cancer, and you gave it away?
Laura: Wait, wait, I have a question. Once a card has been pulled, is it gone from the Deck, or does it go back in?
Liam: Some go back, and some--
Laura: Oh my God.
Travis: I should just pull all of these right now. (groaning)
Travis: I mean, obviously, it was just a little appetizer, the first one.
Matt: Well, let me see here. Let me see. Let me see.
Travis: That is way better.
Taliesin: (laughs) You want to pull another one.
Sam: Matt's verifying.
Laura: Verifying that he did the right thing?
Travis: He's double-checking.
Sam: This is important.
Laura: I know. Yeah.
Matt: Once the card is drawn, it fades from existence.
Taliesin: Oh there's no other-- No, the Wish card goes.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: The best card is fucking gone. It is the best card, isn't it?
Liam: Now the Deck is slightly shittier.
Sam: Way shittier!
Matt: But you know what?
Travis: You know what? Only one person picked that card from the Deck. So it's not really my fault.
Sam: It's Laura's fault?
Taliesin: Good roll, Laura.
Laura: Thank you, thank you. Hey, man.
Matt: That one's gone, now.
Taliesin: Lord of the Quadroads now owes you a favor.
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: That's true!
Travis: It was the queen of diamonds, right? Yeah.
Ashley: I say, at the end of all this, we all pick one.
Liam: Who was that man? That was Taliesin Jaffe, Mayor of Ren Faire!
Taliesin: Huzzah!
Ashley: Huzzah!
Laura: What's going on, Matt?
Matt: Just double-checking to make sure the card goes away, and it does, according to how it's written.
Travis: Clearly, nobody in my group knows what they're talking about. This Deck is a mighty gift!
Laura: Fuck.
Taliesin: We're doomed.
Travis: And I put it back in the Bag of Holding.
Matt: Okay. I was like, "Oh god, is he going to draw another card?"
Liam: Two-hour combat scenario.
Travis: I want to, really bad, but I have an open bar tab.
Matt: Okay then! You, in your time away, radically changed some poor man's life! And, apparently, Wished himself to some level of nobility within the Quadroads of Vasselheim, with one Wish still standing!
Laura: That's amazing.
Travis: Okay!
Marisha: Remember that guy.
Travis: Lord of the Crossroads? Quadroads?
Matt: Well, there are many lords and ladies of the Quadroads, he's just now one of them.
Travis: Good deal. That happened.
Matt: I was thinking to myself it was either going to be that or some grim reaper's going to show up and cut his head off.
Travis: That's all I wanted, really. Just cheer him on, maybe have a little better counterweight for my expectation of the Deck, but now I just want to pull one every day. Nothing but good shit happens! Magic weapon! Fucking Wishes!
Matt: So if this happened early in your year, do you still resist the urge as the year progresses?
Laura: Oh no.
Travis: No.
Laura: Oh, Jesus!
Taliesin: Yay!
Matt: How long does it take until the urge creeps up again?
Travis: I mean, oh god, why do I have to be so fucking true to my character?
Taliesin: There's nothing we can do!
Laura: We're not even there!
Liam: Probably thinks he has three birthdays a year, right? So.
Travis: I will probably wait to take it back so that I can open it with my good friend, Pike. Because she'll understand that this is an awesome deck.
Matt: Which actually plays into her opening. The other thing you did, which happens towards the end of the year, is you said you went to the Frostweald.
Travis: I did, yeah. I was curious about the werewolves. So I went to go see the nymph in the frozen lake. You know, the one that's all about Grog.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Travis: So I had a conversation with her, and I felt really bad because I wasn't as affectionate as last time, so I gave her this palm-sized ruby that was at the bottom of the bag. Looked really pretty, so I gave it to her.
Matt: She thanked you.
Travis: She did. We hit it off. And I asked her if the werewolves were just in the Feywild. Turns out--
Matt: Lycanthropy is scattered throughout the planes.
Travis: Well, I didn't fucking know that.
Matt: Now you do. She passed that information on to you. All right. So. That's the truncated example of Grog's year. We might come back to it here in a minute. Next up would be Pike, because that's a good transition point there. So, what'd you do?
Ashley: All right. So I followed, in the beginning-- did the guy pick the Deck in Vasselheim? Or were you--
Matt: It was in Vasselheim.
Travis: It was in Vasselheim.
Ashley: So I went with Grog to Vasselheim. And because I wanted to go and read and work on some things--
Matt: Check in on your temple that you built there.
Ashley: Yes. I ended up fighting (laughs) because I saw him fight, and I was like, oh, I should probably just try it!
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: And did well.
Matt: Yeah!
Ashley: I'm the second champion under Grog.
Laura: Fuck yes!
Matt: And as everyone was pitting both of you against each other for another championship bout, you both decided to--
Ashley: Do it. No! To fight!
Travis: To kill each other.
Ashley: We didn't end up doing it.
Travis: Nope.
Ashley: We just shook--
Travis: Yep. ASHLEY -- and we knew both of us were just too powerful--
Travis: Too true!
Ashley: -- and I would win. So we just decided not to do it.
Travis: Two monsters of a feather stay in leather.
Ashley: Two monsters of a feather. Also, in that time, which was a five-month period, we had a lot of lessons and taught Grog how to read.
Laura: Yay!
Ashley: Just a little bit.
Travis: Just a little.
Matt: You can slowly read four- to five-letter words.
Marisha: Five-letter words is a big deal!
Laura: That's a big fucking deal.
Matt: He knows how to write his name now.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: And he can write a full sentence over a short rest.
Travis: Yep. (laughter)
Travis: Meat. Cat.
Liam: Farts. Farts.
Travis: Doody, with a Y.
Marisha: Does he get exhausted from reading?
Matt: We'll cross that bridge when we get to it. (laughter)
Ashley: Wait, what did you ask?
Marisha: If he gets mentally exhausted from reading. Takes a point of exhaustion when he tries to read.
Ashley: I'm so tired!
Travis: I'm tired now!
Ashley: I took some time to learn how to be just a little bit more stealthy.
Laura: Yeah!
Ashley: Just did a little bit of training. Not a ton, but maybe, we'll see. I also went to check on great-great-grandpappy Wilhand to see how he was doing, and he's doing fine. He's older.
Matt: Wilhand. Yeah, he's doing good. The home that was damaged in the Umbrasyl attack on Westruun, your room has been repaired. Though it's taken a little while, because it's mainly just him hiring who he can at the time. But he's doing well. He's "an old gnome, but still kicking around! Still doing his best, still doing his prayers to Sarenrae, glad to see you coming, saying hi."
Ashley: Oh, of course. Always.
Marisha: Does he still have Fassbender?
Ashley: I've totally forgot about Fassbender! Didn't he die?
Laura: No, no, no, we left Fassbender with him.
Ashley: Oh shit, I forgot about Fassbender.
Sam: No, I thought that we lost him in the dragon fight.
Laura: No, no, no, we left him with Wilhand.
Ashley: He's keeping him safe. He probably helped build the house.
Matt: If you ask him about that, ask him where Fassbender is, he's like, "Oh, this nice older fella came by and said it was his property? So I gave it back to him. He seemed very--"
Laura: It was that dick.
Matt: "-- very intent on receiving his property, and I wasn't about to argue."
Ashley: That's okay.
Laura: He was technically his.
Ashley: It was technically his. I also sent a little bit of money to -- I don't know where they are, but I hired somebody to send a letter and some money to some of my family.
Matt: Yeah, some of the Trickfoots.
Ashley: Yeah. And what else? Oh, last, but certainly not least, we opened up a bakery.
Sam: Oh, yeah!
Laura: Yes we did!
Sam: What's it called?
Ashley: It's called-- tell 'em.
Laura: It's called-- well, this was Tary's idea-- it's called the Slayer's Cake.
Ashley: And we have many, many items.
Laura: Delicious Sun Treats.
Ashley: Sun Treats. Bear Claws. Angel Food Cake.
Marisha: Some Tree Bark that Keyleth made.
Ashley: So many treats and treasures.
Sam: Bear Claws?
Marisha: Definitely Bear Claws, yeah. Out of Whitestone, of course.
Laura: Obviously, yeah.
Matt: Bear Claws? Is that it? Did you guys make Bear Claws?
Ashley: So Tary, Keyleth, Vex and I just decided on a drunken evening, we were like, we should open up a bakery!
Laura: Let's just fuckin' do it! (laughter)
Laura: We found this building that was pretty abandoned in Whitestone, we fuckin' put in a bakery.
Marisha: We should just do this tomorrow. We should do it tomorrow.
Matt: Whitestone needs more commerce.
Laura: That's right.
Ashley: It does.
Matt: And there are plenty of vacant buildings that are starting to fill up as people move back in.
Laura: That's why we did it, 'cause we wanted to help the economy.
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Taliesin: Anything to get you out of the wine cellar is such a good idea.
Marisha: Yeah. Plus, small-business tax breaks, it was good all the way around.
Taliesin: You're not getting a tax break.
Marisha: What?
Ashley: I did try looking for Scanlan at one point.
Matt: You did, yeah.
Ashley: But I couldn't find him.
Matt: Yeah. It led you all the way to Emon, I think it was, then it went cold. Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah. Yes. And what was the last thing. Oh, we went to go see--
Matt: We'll get to that.
Ashley: -- something great.
Matt: Yeah, we'll get to that.
Ashley: Yeah. So that's what I did on my year of break.
Matt: All right, who wants to go next?
Sam: Are we going in order, or-- what are we doing?
Laura: I mean, I guess we can, yeah. All right, well, I spent my beginning of the year trying to find the baby of the Grey Render that I sent on its way. Mortally.
Matt: Yes, you discovered that there was an offspring. There was a singular offspring in the Parchwood, not too far from where you saw it emerge in your vision. And upon finally finding it, it was young and defensive and feral and, after--
Laura: Very angry.
Matt: Very angry. And day after day you returned with various foods and meat and trying to connect with it, and did not succeed.
Laura: I did not. I failed miserably.
Liam: So many shit rolls.
Laura: So many shit rolls!
Matt: Yeah. It fled southward into the Parchwood, and while you now have sent your Grey Hunt that is now working below you to keep an eye out for it, it has not been seen since.
Laura: Yes. I am on the lookout in case it comes close to our territory. I want to keep our people safe. But I'm not going to go and try to kill it just for the shits.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah. I also built my house!
Matt: Mm-hm.
Laura: Yes! New house, new house! And built up the guard. And I made a nice little animal sanctuary for Trinket, a nice garden area for him to hang out in, and other wildlife should they so desire. Oh, and Tary, Tary moved in.
Sam: I didn't have a place to stay.
Laura: And I have such a large house, you might as well just come and live over here, right?
Sam: Well, I mean, if you'll have me.
Laura: Of course, darling!
Sam: I can sleep on a couch.
Laura: No, no, no, you'll have your own room.
Sam: Excellent, because I don't think I could sleep on a couch. (laughter)
Laura: You're wonderful.
Sam: You're not so bad, either.
Laura: Oh, you! And I became, for Whitestone, the ambassador to Syngorn. So I'm working on making a Teleportation Circle, is that what they're called?
Matt: Yeah. You're having a Teleportation Circle placed within your estate in Whitestone, and at the end of the year it's still two weeks out from creation. So it's going to take a little while longer, but it is in the process.
Laura: Trying to make amends, to make peace with my father, trying to forgive and grow and move on. And while Tary was living in the house--
Sam: Braiding hair.
Laura: Oh my gosh, just doing so many things, we decided to make armor out of Vorugal, so I have new white dragon leather armor that Tary helped me enchant. Actually, that Tary enchanted and I hung out with him, for five months, while he did that.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah, that happened. (laughter)
Sam: A lot of hard work, but I learned something from it.
Laura: Yeah, that I'm really good company, basically.
Sam: Yeah, yep. She knows two songs. She sings them all the time. (laughter)
Laura: And Trinket gives amazing massages.
Sam: That's true.
Laura: Yes. I think that's pretty much it, outside of the bakery, which has taken up a lot of time, really.
Matt: Yeah. You did also research some--
Laura: Yes! I spent a fuckton of time! I'm building up my library in the house, so I spent a lot of time researching Orcus and the Raven Queen and learning everything that I can about all of them. All of them.
Matt: All right. And Vax?
Liam: Everything's going to start to get a little intertwined here now.
Matt: Which is why I led it along this way, so, yeah.
Liam: Yeah, yeah. So, overarching theme is, there was a lot of Zephra and chill. (laughter)
Liam: Enjoyed not being on death's door every fucking day and relaxing and being the right hand of the Queen back in Zephra, and--
Marisha: Chief.
Liam: I'm still learning the lingo. Getting to know Korren a bit more. Keyleth helped me-- I let a lot of blood and made a small altar to the Raven Queen in Zephra and it's been all flowered and vined out. And while we spent most of our time-- Oh, tattoos, want to talk tattoos?
Marisha: Yeah, since Keyleth-- the mantle's a little heavy and flashy and a little formal to wear all the time, but wanted something to still represent my chiefdom.
Sam: Did you get antlers tattooed on your face? (laughter)
Matt: Just right there.
Laura: Ooh, that actually could be pretty tight. Like those elves in Dragon Age.
Marisha: Keyleth goes hard, yeah. No, I got the traditional Ashari tattoos of the mantle across her chest and shoulders to mimic that.
Laura: That's super tight.
Liam: We went together. Yours took much longer than mine did. Yeah.
Marisha: It took a while. It's old needle-and-hammer style. All traditional.
Liam: Yeah, and about two-thirds of the way through yours, they started on mine, which is just a pair of antlers on the right bicep here.
Marisha: See, he got the antlers.
Sam: Nice.
Laura: Oh, did you really?
Liam: I did. Not on my face.
Laura: Oh, that's great. That's so cute.
Matt: Right next to the barbed wire.
Liam: Yeah. Keyleth for life. So we spent a lot of time in Zephra, but since have-druid-will-travel, we met up with these two quite a bit. About once a month, we would have three- or four-day weekends. We'd spent time in Whitestone. We went to Vasselheim a lot. The twins spent a lot of time in the library.
Laura: Yes, we did.
Liam: Reading a ton. I spent a lot of time at the Raven Queen's temple, getting to know the people there, getting to know what the hell a cleric or a priest or a paladin of the Raven Queen does, since I didn't really have any time to do that.
Matt: Part of your process there, once you had been fully accepted into the Order there, some of the few responsibilities you had were, you were called whenever relatively important figures in the city had passed away, to go and give rites when they were interred and be present during a number of funerals in there. That was one of the earlier responsibilities that was given to you within Vasselheim while you were there.
Liam: I tried to do a little observing, too, in Zephra as well. I didn't want to interfere with their customs, but it's like working at a funeral home, and over time you just get used to it. A couple of bits and pieces. I saw everybody, really. I went on a man's weekend with Grog and killed things, that was awesome. Talked a lot of shop with Pike. God talk. The girls went off on their own a little bit, so I spent time trying to figure out what it was Percival does in his workshop. He lent me a book about the history of Whitestone.
Taliesin: I did, I also sent you on a tour of the frescoes, it was quite nice.
Liam: It's beautiful, once you're not screaming, running on fire, you can really take in art and pass notes.
Taliesin: It had been years since I'd done it without being on fire, running around. Yes.
Liam: Also tried to locate Dr. Dranzel in an effort to find Scanlan, but was unsuccessful.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: You ate raw meat with me.
Liam: Yeah, and kept it down.
Travis: You did. Like a champ.
Sam: Do you like me? Check this box.
Liam: Are we married? Yes or no. (laughter)
Taliesin: Check one. Carry on, carry on.
Liam: Oh, and last thing, Vex took me to Syngorn on one of her trips. Spent some time with little sis. Not as much time with Dad. Some time with Dad. We're all right.
Laura: Eh, it's whatever.
Liam: It's fine.
Matt: Yeah, you've arranged a respect. There is no familial bond, per se, with him, but a lot of the tension has died away and there is a business, positive interaction.
Laura: Yeah, there's finally this feeling that we don't need-- at least, for me-- his approval anymore, which is very nice.
Matt: No, and he acknowledges that, and he seems both simultaneously proud and sad, almost a mild regret that, perhaps, I think he realizes now what he missed out on.
Laura: How fucking cool we are?
Matt: Kind of.
Sam: Well, you were until that. (laughter)
Laura: Just so fucking cool. Thanks for the note.
Liam: In character, in character. You know, elfs going to elf, and there's no getting around that, so.
Matt: Exactly. All righty, and I think I'm to Marisha as Keyleth. Keyleth, what you got going on?
Marisha: Okay, so once again, lot of intertwining starting to go on. Got our tattoos, took a little bit of time. One of the big things that Keyleth did over the course of the year, which took a massive majority of her time, was she went on a diplomacy mission to all four of the tribes as well as Emon and Whitestone, and with the help of Percy and Tary, we came up with a system that we are calling the Crisis Orbs system, is what you called it? Where we put magical orbs in each of the cities that are basically giant panic beacons. And each city got assigned a separate color, to where if anything goes terribly wrong, someone can hit that beacon and all of the crystals will light up and whoever can respond first will do so.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: What if some shitty 11-year-old kid just runs up and hits it?
Matt: They are heavily under guard.
Travis: Oh. Smart thinking.
Sam: By a 12-year-old.
Marisha: It's like how calling 911 is illegal. You don't do that. You don't do that..
Taliesin: You're not allowed in that room. (laughs)
Marisha: Yes, 'cause Keyleth does definitely-- Keyleth and a lot of the other Ashari dealt with a little bit of guilt after Cinderking Thordak, and wanted to make sure that if anything tragically goes wrong again, we can potentially be faster to respond. And have allies nearby. So that was a massive part of it. I also went to Whitestone and grabbed a little sprig off of the Sun Tree to propagate one of my own trees back in Vesrah. Spent a lot of time working on my alchemy, in between. I imagine we have would have crafting parties in Whitestone, yeah? And then, you know, I would do some alchemy.
Laura: I made friendship bracelets, she worked on her alchemy. So--
Marisha: Yeah, yeah. It was great. It was great. And he made dragon armor.
Sam: I was just making that fuckin' armor. (laughter)
Laura: It looked so good.
Liam: Girl better appreciate.
Matt: It's not like you have to make the armor, you commission the armor. You enchanted it for five months.
Sam: That's right.
Marisha: Took trips with Vax, and had him as my right-hand man.
Liam: Unnecessary bodyguard, yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: What's his official title?
Sam: Unnecessary bodyguard. (laughter)
Liam: It's Puddin'.
Matt: Coattails of The Tempest.
Marisha: Sir Vax. The Gothy One.
Sam: Cervix? (laughter)
Matt: Maybe not that one!
Liam: That's Cervex.
Laura: I like it. (laughter)
Matt: And thus, another meme was built. (laughter)
Matt: Okay, and since you were the last of one of the intertwined events, the four of you-- Keyleth, Vax, Vex, and Pike-- all took a specific trip.
Laura: And Tary.
Matt: I'm sorry, Tary came along too. So the five of you guys took a journey into the Feywild in search of the Theatre.
Liam: (sings) The fuckin' Theatre.
Taliesin: It was amazing-- I wasn't there, but it was amazing.
Matt: You weren't there.
Marisha: Such a good show.
Laura: They integrated rap, too. It was like--
Sam: History? Wow.
Laura: Yeah, it was like a whole new way to tell history. It was just so good.
Matt: (laughs) So after searching for a few days, up northward in the forest where you recall seeing portions of the tree-- canopy line shifting and seemingly vanishing and then reappearing, you eventually stumbled upon a large, wooden structure-- circular and tall, almost like a giant crown of wood, it sat there-- and noticed that the mists that hugged the base of this marsh, as it's slowly recovering since Sondur fell. Still thick marshland, but not quite as disgusting and corrupt as it once was. The mists that clouded this area were all gathering towards this wooden structure, and you begin to see shapes in the mist. Heads. Faces. Bodies. And you begin to realize that these were all spirits of the marsh being summoned to this structure. You all went, disguised as various small flying insects-- or beast creatures-- and managed to stealth into the entrance doors, into this mossy marsh-rotted wood structure, and on the inside saw the mist form an audience, within the inside of this Globe Theatre-like structure, upon which the central platform remained. A strange, crystalline spark began to form upon that stage, where a doorway opened and then, stepping from it, a half-dozen elvish-looking figures, though their skin is pale white-gray, their eyes white and iris-less, their limbs lithe and thinner and longer than elves you're used to seeing in your experience. And, while none of you could understand-- or most of you could understand the language except for Keyleth and Taryon, I think it was?
Marisha: No, we were the ones that could.
Matt: Yeah, you guys were the only ones who could understand it because you both knew Sylvan.
Marisha: Correct.
Matt: What you saw was a brilliant three-act performance for the undead spirits of the surrounding marsh. Unaware of the serious danger if any of you had been discovered. (laughs)
Liam: Do tell, Matt.
Laura: Yeah, I know. I want to know.
Matt: No. You don't know.
Liam: Aliens!
Matt: Go back. Go back. However, you watched the performance entirely, did not gather their attention. At which, the entity stepped back into a doorway, and it closed off and you absconded from the Theatre before the rest of the audience could shift its way out and become the mists of the Forests once again.
Liam: This is their most sacred ceremony or something?
Matt: You don't know.
Liam: I don't.
Matt: You only know what they told you.
Taliesin: You only have what I told you later, it's pretty much--
Matt: Yeah. So as you guys returned from this and described your experience to Percy, the only person who really had spent a large portion of his youth researching the Feywild, and having an interest in these Fey creatures and their societies--
Laura: He didn't want to go! Yeah, he had things to copy.
Taliesin: I had things to do, I wasn't entirely clear about what you were planning to do. My god!
Marisha: Sorry.
Taliesin: No, it's great! You didn't die, you weren't kidnapped, your soul wasn't taken, you weren't--
Laura: That could've happened?
Taliesin: Yes, you watched the--
Marisha: The Royal Troupe of the--
Taliesin: Unseelie Court.
Marisha: Unseelie Court.
Taliesin: For god's sakes. Yes, a lot could've happened. They have these little vignettes on occasion that they use to sort of-- it's like a nice little trap. They just like to grab people and use them for various things, no one really knows because no one ever comes back.
Liam: Who are 'they'? The 'Unseelie court'?
Taliesin: They're sort of the shadow court, I suppose. They would be the-- for everything that you saw in the Feywild, they are the thing that the Feywild is a little sketchy about and a little worried about.
Laura: Ooh.
Liam: Well, listen, man. If I can't have the arts in my life, I'd rather be dead.
Taliesin: I respect that. (laughter)
Taliesin: And I'm very impressed. You're going to have to draw everything. You're going to have to draw everything. It's very important.
Liam: They looked like Slendermen.
Taliesin: I don't know what that means.
Laura: Very tall and slender.
Sam: They kept singing about a Technicolor Dreamcoat. (laughter)
Taliesin: I have a book about that. (laughter)
Matt: All right. So. Your adventure to finally find the Theatre, complete. I believe that concludes your immediate ventures. Percival.
Taliesin: I had the least vacation-y of anybody's vacation.
Matt: Of course you did.
Taliesin: 'Cause I have technically been on vacation for many, many years. I finally took the mantle of responsibility for not necessarily-- I'm not ruling Whitestone, that's not how it works, but I did take on a lot of the civic responsibility.
Matt: Yeah, you guys converted into the Chamber of Whitestone.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Which is less of a singular family ruling and more of a small series of offices held by Lords or Ladies.
Taliesin: I hired someone to help run the-- my workshop.
Sam: I was doing a lot of work. (laughter)
Sam: Mornings at the bakery-- (laughter)
Sam: -- afternoons at the workshop, and then an hour and a half every night enchanting it.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: And then we drink.
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: But didn't it feel good, Tary, to get your hands dirty?
Sam: It did. I got this thing on my finger, I was later told that that's what happens when you work with your hands. (laughter)
Sam: It's a blister! Yeah.
Travis: How awful.
Taliesin: So, with the help, I had time to start working on a few projects. I finally made a new pair of glasses. Well, I tried.
Matt: You tried.
Taliesin: To make a new pair of glasses.
Matt: You rolled a one. And then you rolled a two.
Taliesin: And then I rolled again and tried to make a new pair of glasses. And then I realized it's very, very hard to make a pair of glasses when you can't see what you're doing because you don't have a pair of glasses.
Sam: Warby Parker.
Taliesin: So then I actually called Tary and said, please fix these for me. He made very, very nice glasses. I think they have your name inscribed on them, they're really gaudy.
Sam: Rose gold is the best.
Taliesin: White gold. White gold. Please. (laughter)
Taliesin: It's got to match the outfit. I automated the system for making shot and powder for the castle. I created a royal guard that-- and have been training an elite group of soldiers specifically to guard the family and the house. They were the Whitestone Musketeers until Cassandra said that that was silly and so they were called the Riflemen.
Matt: Riflemen of Whitestone.
Taliesin: Yeah, the Riflemen of Whitestone. (whispers) Musketeers. (laughter)
Matt: "I'm sorry, Percy, but no."
Taliesin: No. I get vetoed a lot, these days. (laughter)
Taliesin: I began modernizing the city. I have a wonderful dream of turning Whitestone into a shining beacon on the hill of what the future of mankind could be. And the first order of business, one of two big projects that we've started to bring forth our reputation as this modern city, is we've been running steam pipes from the depths through the main streets so that the snow never needs to be uncovered, so that the streets are always clean, and a few of the major houses can be heated this way during the heavy winters.
Matt: It's a heavy endeavor, it's going to take a while to complete.
Taliesin: It's not completed yet.
Matt: It's begun work.
Taliesin: We're also trying to create some series of illuminations at least within the main castle in case the thing in the basement that we're still working on ever turns on us and suddenly we are un-magiced, which is a constant fear. I've upgraded, with Taryon's help, we've upgraded several of my inventions. I've had a proper sword of my family crest made. I finally got the glove more-or-less working. More working, honestly, but I'll get into that later. I've been desperately trying to get you to stop going out into the woods to stop searching for that bloody thing.
Laura: I've been a bit obsessed, I'm sorry.
Taliesin: That covers quite a bit of it, at this point.
Matt: Yeah. That's pretty much everything you've got here.
Travis: What'd you kill, in the year that you had off?
Sam: Time.
Taliesin: Time, and things in the woods, on occasion. We go hunting. And I've also been training men how to use their guns, so there's been a bit of that.
Travis: Boring.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Did you catch a whiff of Galdrick out in woods?
Laura: I've seen a wolf, out and about, but he seems to do his job well, and I'm not going to stop him.
Taliesin: Technically an honorary member of the Grey Hunt, I'd say.
Laura: Yes, quite.
Matt: All right. And Taryon.
Sam: Well... Taryon had a great year.
Matt: You're such a terrible person.
Sam: You've heard much of what he's done. Mainly just building and working and working and building. And in his spare time, he built and worked on things for himself. Chief among them, Doty! Doty 2.0, take this down.
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: Yes, see?
Travis: Oh he fucking talks!
Sam: A little bit. Doty, how handsome am I?
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: I heard "very". And Doty, what do you say when it's windy outside?
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: It's airy. Right? That's what I heard. Oh no, boo!
Matt: "Tary?"
Sam: Yeah, it is scary. He says a lot of things. It depends on the context, you have to sort of figure out what he's saying. But he can say that, he can say one word. It took a lot of money to do that, but it was worth it. He's also got a couple of upgrades. He's got a waterproof slot for the book inside of him so he can store my book.
Matt: The door itself is also a crest.
Sam: Yes, the crest of Vox Machina, right on his chest, emblazoned there. His arm works a little differently, his right arm, which we might see in some sort of competition at some point. And his left arm, thanks to Percival Fredrickstein von Mussel de something.
Taliesin: Bless you.
Sam: He's got a little hole right here in his hand, that--
Laura: That you... never mind. (laughter)
Travis: That was amazing!
Liam: Our hero!
Taliesin: You're gonna pay for that, oh my God, I can feel the radiation.
Travis: It can't be for anything else. Anything else won't compare. Just change it.
Laura: Just a little hole.
Travis: Itty-bitty little hole.
Liam: How wide is the hole?
Sam: It's got some girth.
Taliesin: Well-machined.
Sam: But it can fire a shot, a bullet shot. I've never used it before, but it can shoot something.
Taliesin: It can.
Matt: Once, and then takes a short rest to reload.
Sam: Yep. And I think that's the major improvements to Doty, other than the speaking and the other stuff. Let's see, what else did I do?
Liam: You told me one other thing. Did that get jettisoned?
Sam: Oh, I also bought him-- I bought a lot of stuff. I'm almost out of money, guys.
Travis: What?
Laura: But you're making some, with the bakery.
Sam: That is not what I would call money.
Taliesin: You are technically a civil servant as well, so you're making money there.
Sam: No, I'm talking about actual money that you can buy things with. I bought Doty a pair of boots.
Matt: Yep.
Sam: The Boots of--
Taliesin: Wow, that's a lot of cards!
Sam: Yeah, I bought a lot of stuff. The Boots of Elvenkind, so he's a little more stealthy when we go around.
Laura: Don't you have those, too?
Sam: I also tinkered with my armor, or did I have it tinkered on?
Matt: You don't know how to make armor, so you had the armor commissioned, using the remains of Vorugal's hide. No, sorry, you have Vorugal-- the remains of Umbrasyl's hide.
Sam: Yes, so I have breastplate armor that has black dragon scales embedded in it, right?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: And it gives me a little more protection against acid, and it also looks cool. A little darker flair. And so I could communicate with them, I built myself a little earring-- it's a little different from yours, it dangles and it's got a nice gem on the end, because if you're going to wear it, at least look good. And also, in my spare time at Vex's house, when she was asleep-- she's a snorer-- sometimes I would be awake and I would examine her broom a bit and decided to make myself one too. (gasping)
Laura: Sneaky sneak!
Travis: You made a broom?
Laura: You know we have a fucking flying carpet?
Sam: Now we have two brooms. We can leave those fuckers in the dust!
Laura: That's pretty fucking cool. (laughter)
Travis: You really have no money left.
Sam: I am out of money. I have a teeny bit left. But I also bought some other things.
Taliesin: He's now going to become Whitestone's FedEx though.
Liam: Are we all getting any prezzies?
Sam: Are you back? You were gone?
Matt: All right, is that the end of that?
Sam: And I wrote. A lot.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Just a lot of writing, and I'm probably halfway through that book by now.
Matt: Awesome. All right. So as the months go by and you all have your individual adventures, as you converse and talk amongst yourselves, the date of Winter's Crest begins to creep up. Now, Winter's Crest is a day that's really only celebrated in Tal'Dorei proper-- occasionally by people in other places who migrated away from Tal'Dorei, but the event that it's based around, Eravon the Ice Lord, was specific to Tal'Dorei. It's not celebrated everywhere in the world. However, it is coming up, and you all decided to celebrate your Winter's Crest festival this year, not in Tal'Dorei. You all instead made your way towards the Bay of Gifts, in Marquet.
Marisha: Tropical vacation.
Matt: Now, how are you guys getting there? Are you taking a leisurely boat trip? Are you going via trees?
Taliesin: Well, we were leaving from Whitestone, right?
Laura: We were leaving from Whitestone because we'd all gathered there for--
Matt: Oh, that's right, before you even left there, you--
Taliesin: That's right, as you were saying, it is based on that festival, and of course Whitestone has its own paganistic rituals dating back many, many years.
Liam: I've read about them.
Taliesin: Yes, you have now.
Liam: And I will start telling you about it.
Taliesin: I've so many text files to send you, my word. So usually at this time, the winter solstice, especially when we have a new Master or Mistress of the Grey Hunt, there's usually a celebration or a ball, and they're not every single winter's festival, but it does happen, but since this was the first, we decided to have a fancy party. She was bestowed with her crest and otherwise and we all dressed up.
Marisha: Did she get a dope crown?
Taliesin: You don't get a crown, you get a cloak-y thing with a medallion piece.
Marisha: Mantle sisters!
Taliesin: You don't really have to wear it, it's just something you get to own. But I also had a piece of jewelry commissioned for everybody.
Sam: I've already got one.
Matt: Keyleth helped you with this one specifically.
Taliesin: This one specifically, because I had to go find our friend in the Fire Plane.
Matt: Senokir, yeah.
Marisha: That's right, that's right.
Matt: "Very happy to help you."
Marisha: And we inform him that we buried his wife's ashes.
Matt: "And I greatly appreciated you being so honorable."
Marisha: Yes, yes.
Matt: "Thank you."
Marisha: Okay, Percy, do your thing.
Matt: "What do you need from me?"
Taliesin: I have this design, and this requires some gemstones, and I have a limited amount of dragon scales from five dead dragons, and I was curious if you could make a hero's crest that is built around these five dragon scales, so that everyone who helped to slay these dragons will always have a token that proves that they were there and they were one of them. And then I also need one made without the dragon scales as well.
Matt: "Understood. Right away." (laughter)
Matt: "You may leave now."
Marisha: Do we come back in, like, two weeks?
Taliesin: He'll call.
Marisha: He'll call? Okay.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: Is this like a-- do we wait here?
Taliesin: Goodbye!
Matt: "Goodbye."
Liam: (AOL voice) Goodbye.
Matt: You receive word via imp, strangely enough. Which sets you off for a moment, there. But you are notified of their completion, and they're delivered, finished, by this imp.
Taliesin: They're beautiful, and at the ball, I present all of these to you, and each is just a bit individual. And they are crested in the gems and in the dragon scales to give this color wheel of the red, the white, the blue, the green.
Laura: That's really beautiful.
Taliesin: And there's one that doesn't have the dragon scales, but it's just got this flourish around it, and we give it to Taryon because these are meant to be built upon, as we will build upon ours. Your accomplishments will be built upon yours as well.
Sam: Thank you, Percy. That's very kind.
Travis: Is there a pin?
Liam: Yeah, where are they best affixed to wear our bling?
Taliesin: Anywhere you like.
Liam: Okay.
Travis: I don't wear a shirt, so.
Laura: Just right in your skin, Grog.
Liam: Nipple piercing.
Travis: Right in the nips?
Taliesin: All right. Or you could use it as your piece clasp. You could put it on your-- you could put it anywhere. You could put it on your gauntlet.
Marisha: I use it to affix my mantle.
Matt: There you go. Right in the center of the mantle. Right there.
Taliesin: They're just something so that, in the worst-case scenario, anyone will always know who we are, and we will know each other. It can't be replicated. There's no one else who's made anything like this. There's not enough material to make anything like this.
Laura: Ooh, I want to make mine my hairpiece.
Taliesin: And we've got to figure out how to start putting your accomplishments on yours soon.
Sam: Well, I hope to have an accomplishment to add to it.
Taliesin: You have several already. You defeated a leviathan.
Sam: Sure. I killed a marid, right?
Marisha: You helped me unify the world, globally.
Sam: I mean, go on.
Laura: You're a world-class enchanter.
Sam: Mm-hm, yeah, yeah.
Taliesin: Think of it much like your book.
Sam: Pike, what do you like about me?
Ashley: You are so great at baking.
Sam: My profiteroles are really good.
Travis: Profiteroles?
Ashley: What did we name the profiteroles again?
Sam: I don't think we had a name for them. Profite-roll for initiative?
Liam: Profiterolos!
Taliesin: Profiterolos!
Laura: Oh, that's profiterolos!
Liam: You're fun to fucking drink with.
Sam: Thank you.
Travis: Your money.
Sam: Well, thank you.
Ashley: Your hair is lovely.
Sam: It is, isn't it?
Laura: It's very shiny.
Ashley: You're kind. You're very giving.
Sam: All right, all right. Now I'm embarrassed. But thank you. Thank you. Doty, you got all that?
Matt: "Tary." (laughter)
Travis: Jesus. No! (laughter)
Taliesin: So we just have a wonderful evening where we eat too much, we drink too much, we dance and we all look fabulous.
Laura: Fabulous.
Travis: I'm only wearing the pointy helmet, Percy's ascot, and his glasses.
Matt: And that's it.
Laura: No pants?
Travis: I mean, I always have pants on.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Not always.
Liam: Also, I am not always wearing the Raven Queen's armor. I'm wearing some of Percival's loaner cast-of-Hamilton clothing right now. I, on the break, built a trapped box to slide under the bed so that I can let my skin breathe at night.
Laura: He doesn't smell as moldy after a year.
Liam: I smell lovely.
Marisha: You know, I've crafted him some oils with some herbs. He's good. I helped him manscape a bit, it's good.
Liam: Barely any hair on this body. (laughter)
Matt: Oh! All right, and as you guys-- the ball is complete, you've all gathered. Your hangovers have faded. You all begin your trek toward the Bay of Gifts.
Taliesin: Yes!
Marisha: Wait, are we sailing or are we bamfing?
Matt: That's up to you guys.
Taliesin: I'd like to sail. I need a vacation.
Travis: (sings) Sailing.
Travis: (sing) Takes me away, to where I've always---
Sam: (sing) Takes me away, to where I've always---
Matt: (sing) Takes me away, to where I've always---
Liam: A little nostalgia in that for you, yeah?
Ashley: Yeah.
Laura: That's right.
Ashley: Because I've sailed there before.
Marisha: And we didn't go sailing with Pike.
Taliesin: Teach us some sailing songs. It will be fun.
Ashley: I'll teach you the ropes. (laughter)
Matt: Bah-derr.
Liam: And show us all the best gifs.
Ashley: Okay. (laughter)
Ashley: I'll show you all the best jifs.
Liam: That's okay too. That's okay too.
Ashley: Okay, just kidding. I don't say that.
Matt: I don't know what those are. All right, so you make your way to Emon, then you charter a ship across the Ozmit Sea and make your way to the continent of Marquet. On the northeast base of the Aggrad Mountains of Marquet, which consume a sizable portion of the continent's north shore, there before you stands, as it comes across the horizon, a brilliant crescent-shaped bay of white sands, glittering clear turquoise-colored waters, and the grandiose port city of Shamal.
Laura: (sings) Shamal. (laughter)
Laura: Sorry.
Travis: Holy crap.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Ashley: Oh, man.
Matt: Hundreds of ships fill the bay, from small fishing vessels to massive cargo ships, bringing an ever-flowing mixture of cultures, goods, and characters from across Exandria to its sunny location. Now, while back home Winter's Crest brings seasonal rain and snow, here in the Bay of Gifts the sky is clear, the water is warm, and the sun is ever-shining throughout the day. The streets of the city are draped in white and gold silks, affixed and framing crossways and street corners between torch posts and buildings. The distant sound of waves and seagulls cawing seems to envelop the city at all hours, occasionally stemmed by the sounds of localized musicians. So as you arrived here about midday or so, you take in the nice salty air into your lungs. You have your belongings, your sacks at your side, the city is bustling. What do you want to do with your vacation?
Laura: Oh. What do we do with a vacation?
Travis: Straight to the house of lady fav-- (laughter)
Taliesin: I don't think I've ever done this before. I'm not entirely sure.
Laura: I think we're supposed to just hang out and lay down in a hut and hang out on the beach.
Sam: We need a place to stay. Right?
Laura: Well, yes.
Sam: Preferably a fancy location.
Liam: As close to the beach as possible.
Taliesin: Oh my God, you've done this before, haven't you?
Sam: We used to summer in warmer climes. That's right. And--
Taliesin: We've never needed you more. (laughter)
Sam: Well, we should get some cabanas. (gasping)
Laura: Yes!
Taliesin: I don't know what that is!
Sam: And some people to wait on us. And we should-- Preferably near water. Swimmable water. And we just relax and tan, and sip mojitos. (laughs) (laughter)
Marisha: Do you have, like, a racial advantage to find a place like this?
Sam: (laughs) Vacations are my favored terrain. (laughter)
Marisha: Teach us your upper-white-male ways!
Taliesin: The blood is blue. (laughter)
Sam: I will certainly be of help. I'm afraid I can't pay for us this vacation.
Taliesin: No-no-no-no-no-no-no.
Laura: This is Vox Machina's vacation.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: This is a group vacation. This is what this is now.
Sam: Well, let's find a resort of some sort. Or a relaxing spa! Or a---
Travis: Some sandals.
Sam: (laughs) Yeah, sure.
Matt: (laughs) All right. So who's helming this journey here? This search for--
Laura: I'll helm.
Matt: All right, make an investigation check.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: I will help her.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. If you're helping her, that's advantage for her on it, then.
Laura: Oh, ah!
Liam: Oh my gosh!
Laura: Okay, well-- It doesn't matter, I rolled it.
Taliesin: The one that got away.
Laura: (hums) 17.
Matt: 17. Okay. Roughly 20 or so gold later, you find the party affixed with the finest of Marquesian sandals. (laughs) (laughter)
Matt: And come upon a place that was referred to you as Dalen's closet. D-A-L-E-N's Closet. Which doesn't sound majestic, but when you were eventually led to where it resides-- the best way I can describe it? It's a field of beautiful hammocks affixed to various tropical trees and structures that are built out of driftwood.
Marisha: Oh my God.
Matt: Right next to a brilliant bright white sandstone structure that appears to be the actual resort, if you will. It's a wide tavern, single-story. But well-staffed, and not terribly busy. But it seems to be very nice, and akin to some of the best places you've been to in your previous excursions on vacation.
Sam: All right!
Matt: So as you arrive there, you are met with a male, dark-skinned, somewhat balding Marquesian halfling at the front desk who smiles as you approach. He puts out his hands. "Welcome, friends! You are here for a-- I imagine to stay within The Closet?"
Laura: Yes.
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: "Ah, I am Guath, and this is for all of you? I will have to charge for your friend, I am sorry."
Sam: Oh, well, he's not really a person, but--
Matt: "You're lucky I'm not charging twice! He's a very big guy. That goes for that one as well."
Sam: He doesn't eat. So--
Matt: "Then he won't order food! But he's going to sleep somewhere, yes?"
Laura: He doesn't sleep.
Taliesin: He doesn't sleep.
Sam: He doesn't sleep.
Matt: "Well then, is he okay with staying out on the beach?"
Sam: Doty? Are you okay with staying on the beach?
Matt: "Tary?"
Sam: He said very. (laughter)
Matt: "Okay, very well. So that would be ba-da-da-- seven and a half? Seven, we'll go with seven. How long do you plan to stay?"
Liam: A couple of weeks?
Laura: A couple of weeks, a week? Something like that.
Sam: Ten days? Ten days?
Laura: Ten days is really good.
Matt: "Ten days?"
Sam: We'll get bored after eight or nine.
Marisha: Yeah, we might hop around.
Liam: We should be so lucky.
Laura: I know what he's about to do to me right now. I know what Matt's going to do.
Matt: "Let me see here." And he brings up this small abacus and starts doing math really quickly on the side you see. "Nine days, you said?"
Laura: Ten days.
Matt: "Ten days, all right. We'll put that at an even-- with discount for friendships, 1500 gold for the entire stay."
Laura: Oh! Well, seems-- and food is included, I'm assuming.
Matt: (laughs) "Oh, no. I'm sorry."
Laura: Where would we go eat?
Matt: "Well, we have a restaurant within as well, and there are plenty of places to eat around the way. We are happy to bring it to your quarters, but there is a surcharge for it, of course."
Liam: Are you going to do the thing?
Laura: Do what thing, darling?
Liam: Your thing.
Ashley: Do you have any specials?
Liam: The thing you do. (laughter)
Marisha: AAA discounts? (laughter)
Taliesin: Rotary club.
Ashley: AAA discounts, tenth night free situation?
Laura: Friends of J'mon Sa Ord.
Matt: "Uh. We do not run discounts here, unfortunately. We are a very premier establishment here in the Bay of Gifts."
Laura: Of course.
Matt: "So do you wish to stay or not?"
Laura: Well, 1500 gold it is.
Travis: We wish to stay.
Marisha: That's fair.
Taliesin: I think we wish to stay. I think--
Marisha: We never spend money on ourselves.
Sam: Yeah, we never treat ourselves.
Liam: Yeah. Ultimately our time is worth far more than our money, so-- let's just go with that.
Taliesin: That's very fair.
Matt: "All right! Fantastic!" So you pay off the 1500. Mark that off on the party gold. You are given some keys--
Ashley: How about some free drinks?
Matt: (laughs) Make a persuasion check. (laughter)
Taliesin: Wow!
Travis: Getting after it! Wasting no time.
Matt: This is training for your vacation next week.
Ashley: I used to come here on a ship and we used to bring you guys a lot of supplies, so, you know. (gasping)
Taliesin: Natural number.
Travis: Wow.
Ashley: 31.
All: Ooh!
Matt: What is your persuasion?
Ashley: It's 12.
Sam: It is?
Laura: Oh shit.
Sam: Pike!
Travis: Why have we not had fucking Pike do things?
Sam: No shit!
Laura: Oh my gosh!
Ashley: Maybe, how about-- If we don't get free food, what about--
Matt: As you're telling him this he goes, "Well, I--" That's right, because you trained in persuasion as part of the skills feat. That's right.
Liam: All right, all right! (laughs)
Matt: So your charisma is-- Sorry, just making sure on the math on this one. Don't want to get lost. What's your charisma?
Ashley: Two. 14.
Matt: 14. Plus two. Plus-- So it would be plus eight, unless you had something else to add under persuasion. Regardless, you rolled really high. We'll go over the math later.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: "I don't recognize you, but we've had many travelers and you seem--" He looks over the group a bit, especially the large one. "Free drinks. Why not? I'd be happy to give you this."
Laura: All right, nice, Pike!
Matt: He reaches behind the counter and brings out a couple of these small wooden coins.
Ashley: Tokens!
Matt: He passes them out "All right, that is five, six-- He doesn't drink, you said. So that is just seven. There you go."
Ashley: Thanks!
Sam: We said he didn't eat. He drinks. (laughter)
Matt: "So seven for all of you! Enjoy your stay! If you have any questions, requirements, issues, or anything, anything at all, you let me know. We can provide. Okay!" He gives you your keys, leads you to you guys'-- The rooms are clustered in fours, like a little square. They are all adjacent next to each other in groups of four, so there is two sections you guys are given, in square formation with small pathways, but all the walkways, all the alleys between these all just lead right out onto the beach. There are no solid walls on any of the hallways here, it's just the rooms that are closed off. Everything just goes-- you just step off into the sand.
Laura: This is amazing. I'm already, I'm in love with this place.
Liam: We don't need to go anywhere. This is it.
Matt: All right, so. Anything you guys wish to accomplish specifically while you're here?
Laura: No, just get drunk and hang out on the beach.
Liam: Yeah, I'm already peeling off my shirt.
Laura: Yeah! Roll for fucking putting on swimsuits!
Matt: (laughs) That's great!
Sam: I have a gift to give to Vax! I have a gift to give.
Liam: Oh yeah?
Sam: 'Cause we're in the Bay of Gifts.
Liam: I've got my shirt up around my arms. What's up, buddy? (laughter)
Sam: You know, we haven't talked much over this year since I've been helping your fucking sister.
Liam: Well, my sister has locked you up, it's true.
Sam: But, you know, I've talked to her a lot about how you have this ongoing sort of teasing war with Grog.
Liam: Oh yeah?
Sam: And I have acquired something for you to use in this battle.
Liam: Do tell, motherfucker.
Taliesin: (gasps) No!
Sam: Use it when the time is right.
Taliesin: No! No, you are a sadistic bastard!
Liam: Oh. My. Fucking. God! (laughter)
Liam: Oh my fucking God! I pull him into the tightest hug, and I give him a kiss on his forehead.
Sam: Oh, oh, oh! No! Okay.
Liam: You beautiful fuck! Slap! Let's go get in the fucking water! And I run off towards the beach.
Taliesin: That is the darkest thing I've ever seen. That is amazing.
Matt: (laughter) I think I know what it is. All right, so as you guys shed your armor, shed your weapons, put on your beach-faring clothing, you all one-after-one begin to charge your way down to the white beach sands of the Bay of Gifts just outside of the city itself.
Travis: Are there any pool aerobics? (laughter)
Matt: (laughs) No, but you're welcome to start one.
Travis: No, I'll join the rest.
Laura: Grog! Grog! Lift me like Dirty Dancing! (laughter)
Sam: (sings) Ahh!
Matt: Do you wait until she gets to the water before you do that?
Travis: Nope! (laughter)
Matt: You arc a good 15 feet before you go face-down in the sand.
Laura: Oh shit! You're supposed to hold on, Grog. Never mind.
Travis: Oh, you said lift. I did it. (laughter)
Marisha: Yeah, Keyleth runs out and goes, who wants to go scuba-diving?
Ashley: Ooh!
Marisha: 'Cause I can Water Breathe us, and we can go look at the coral reefs!
Laura: Yay! Let's do it!
Liam: Let's do it! Let's do it!
Marisha: Okay!
Matt: All right.
Marisha: We do that.
Matt: All right. So. (laughter)
Marisha: We do that at some point, throughout the week.
Matt: Through the elements of-- which by the way, we're all discovering here now, all the various relaxation elements of magic in D&D. (laughter)
Matt: Which they don't go into in the Player's Handbook as often.
Liam: Oh yeah.
Matt: (laughs) You guys manage to explore the majority of-- over this journey, and multiple trips-- explore a lot of the underwater portion of the Bay of Gifts, which includes a number of wrecked ships, that have just been storms, this is a very, very prominent bay.
Marisha: It's like the Bermuda Triangle!
Matt: You do run into other individuals that are actually either scavengers or pearl-divers or people that deal with gathering kelp and various other forms of plant life off the ground for food or other purposes. It's a very thriving ecosystem here. The people that live within this bay utilize everything in the vicinity. You see that work here, it's quite fascinating, and you see all walks of life. You all are pale as fuck by comparison to the locals here, who live in the sun most of their life.
Travis: Well, me especially.
Matt: But everyone there is friendly. You're little white-ass beacons underwater.
Laura: Do we see any mermaids?
Matt: There are no mermaids in this bay that you find. Sorry.
Laura: It's okay.
Taliesin: Next vacation.
Marisha: I turn to Pike and Vex and go, hey! Hey! Underwater tea party!
Travis: Nope. Not doing that shit. Not doing that. (laughter)
Ashley: Are you going to join?
Sam: I'm still trying to pressurize. (laughter)
Laura: I want to find pearls!
Taliesin: I'll go diving for pearls! Oh, yes!
Matt: All right. Each of you who wants to go pearl-diving, make an investigation check.
Ashley: I want to.
Liam: I want to go!
Marisha: Can I look for shark's teeth? That's fun! Can I do a nature check?
Travis: I'm building a sand castle while they're doing that.
Laura: Investigation?
Sam: I'll help you with that sand castle.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: 26!
Laura: Oh, that's good!
Taliesin: 21!
Ashley: I got a five. I definitely didn't find a pearl.
Marisha: 17.
Taliesin: 21.
Laura: 22.
Matt: You have no luck under the water, but you do find a couple of shark teeth-- at least they look like shark teeth-- along the sands of the beach that have washed up on the shore.
Marisha: Cool.
Liam: 26. 26.
Matt: You don't, what did you roll again?
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: 21, okay. You do manage to find one pearl, it's small but it's pretty. You manage to find a pretty decent pearl. You're not entirely certain-- make an intelligence check.
Liam: All right, I'm okay at that. Not today, though.
Laura: Are you feeling Lucky?
Liam: I'm not burning Luck on this.
Matt: You've burned it on lesser.
Laura: I know, right?
Liam: I'm not burning it on this. 13.
Matt: 13, okay. You gather the pearl you gathered is worth 150 gold.
Liam: Do you want this? I don't. You can have it.
Matt: There you go.
Laura: I rolled 22, as well.
Matt: You and Percival both find similar pearls. Imperfect, maybe worth ten to 15 gold.
Laura: I don't want to sell it. I just want to have it. It's pink.
Taliesin: I think I know how to pierce them. Lovely.
Matt: And you rolled a five?
Ashley: I rolled a five. I found a boob.
Matt: You found a sea cucumber.
Ashley: Oh.
Taliesin: It's the sea hairs that squirt the ink?
Matt: Not that type. It doesn't seem to have any sort of defense mechanism. It sits there sadly in her grasp.
Liam: By the way, I should probably toss out, because we probably haven't all been half-naked together-- you know this, some of you have, but not all of us together-- I still have this big mark in the middle of my chest. This black, veiny thing.
Matt: It's not like a pulsing tumor, or anything. It's a dark spot that looks like a bruise that never quite went away.
Liam: FYI.
Marisha: Tattoo's looking good, though.
Travis: Tary, do you know what I hear they do on beaches? You bury someone up to their head in sand.
Sam: Do you want me to bury you?
Travis: No, I thought we could bury you. Hold on. And I start doggy digging between my feet. I go into a Rage.
Taliesin: You could walk away right now. He'll never know.
Travis: Big hole right there.
Matt: What you don't notice is another traveling couple that's lying on the beach about 15 to 20 feet away are now completely buried in sand with their drinks.
Travis: I end my Rage. Get in.
Sam: All right, sure. We're friends.
Travis: Yeah, totally friends.
Sam: All right. I'll step into the gigantic hole.
Matt: You step in. Doty watches you get inside, not really having an opinion on this.
Sam: Sure.
Travis: Why didn't you pay for our rooms with all your money?
Sam: I've spent a lot of money.
Travis: How much?
Sam: A lot.
Travis: How much do you have left?
Sam: Not a lot.
Travis: I start filling up the hole. (laughter)
Travis: I stop. Just so his arms are out, like that.
Sam: Oh, this is fun. I should have taken my armor off first. It's chafing me.
Matt: All of you guys are beach-dressed except for Tary!
Sam: I thought this was a formal trip.
Matt: Sand's gotten all in the metal joints and the inside of the armor.
Marisha: You know salt water is bad for the armor, right?
Ashley: You should go change.
Marisha: You should.
Sam: Doty, lift me up, please.
Matt: "Taryon." Puts you down.
Liam: He just evolved.
Laura: Yeah, I know. I feel like he said Taryon.
Matt: Tary. It should have been Tary. Good catch.
Sam: Undress me.
Matt: He pulls off the breastplate, starts taking off the armor pieces. You are now currently down to your skivvies.
Sam: Great.
Travis: Do you want to build a castle?
Sam: Let's build the best castle ever.
Travis: Fucking A, man. Do you know how to do that?
Sam: Do I know how to do that?
Matt: Are you trained in sand castle building?
Sam: I am a tinkerer.
Matt: Yeah, and some of those tools may come in handy. You know what I'm going to do on this?
Sam: Sand castle rolls.
Matt: Yeah, we're making rolls for sand castles.
Travis: No shit? (laughter)
Matt: For this, we'll have a skill test for you, because you are a brute strength individual. This is going to be a dexterity check.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And you're following his plan.
Sam: I'm going to go to my history knowledge and try to base it on one of the famous castles from my youth, of my land.
Matt: All right, from the Dwendalian Empire.
Sam: From the Truscan Empire.
Matt: Truscan area. I misspoke in an earlier episode. The Dwendalian Empire of King Bertrand Dwendal.
Liam: Everybody looks over and Castle Ravenloft is towering above the beach.
Matt: Exactly, yeah. So, make your dexterity check.
Travis: Four!
Matt: Taryon, go ahead and make your history check.
Sam: 16.
Matt: Great. You get the structure built. You map out the right scale structure of this castle, and you get about three-quarters of the way through before Grog (shifting sand).
Travis: What did you do?
Sam: (sighs) You know, maybe we should have-- you know, let's just try one more time.
Travis: Okay. What did we do wrong the first time?
Sam: Just be very careful, Grog. Because you were backing up and I think you knocked into it a little bit.
Travis: You putting this on me?
Sam: It was probably Doty.
Travis: Probably. Doty, go walk over there.
Matt: "Tary." (impact sounds)
Travis: Oh, he listens to me now?
Matt: He walks over about ten feet.
Sam: All right, let's do one more try.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: And really put some artistry into this. We want a moat, we want defensive towers. I'm going to put a little alchemic fire in the middle of it, so if anyone gets through the gates, they explode.
Travis: Wow. Dungeons?
Sam: Of course.
Travis: With alligators in the moat?
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: Let's do it.
Matt: All right, now make an intelligence check to lay out the design.
Sam: Just straight intelligence?
Matt: Just straight intelligence.
Sam: 13.
Matt: That's still good. It's not a very hard DC. You're structuring a sandcastle. (laughter)
Travis: Come on, Gil. Five.
Laura: Oh no!
Marisha: You're with the worst sandcastle partner.
Matt: This one's bigger. This one's coming along great. You're glad the first one fell over because now this is going to be much better.
Sam: Yes, yeah, this is coming along great.
Matt: (sliding sand)
Sam: God fucking-- Grog! You stepped-- I mean, the central structure held the whole thing! I'm getting a sunburn because we've been here for so--
Travis: I think that was my fault. (laughter)
Sam: (sighs) You know what? Just bury me again. Just do that. Bury me again.
Liam: While that is happening, may I hide Taryon's clothing?
Sam: Aren't you skin-diving?
Liam: Time is loosey-goosey. Aren't we playing Dungeons and Dragons here? It's up to him.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: 23.
Matt: You see the opportunity.
Liam: I'm getting him.
Matt: Make a sleight-of-hand check.
Liam: Sleight-of-hand check? Natural 20!
Matt: A gentle pass by, choosing the right moment in which Grog is involved in rage-burying and Taryon has completely given up on his activities, you manage to scoot through the sand, and moving your hand behind you to hide the trail, you drag his armor off back towards the resort.
Liam: Yoink.
Matt: All righty. As you've been buried now, sufficiently--
Travis: All the way up to the head this time.
Matt: Up to the neck. You feel the sunburn is starting to kick in a bit.
Sam: (sighs) I need that helmet, Doty! My helm, please.
Travis: The giant reflective piece of metal?
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: You're going to cook in that thing.
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: What do you mean, "Tary?" (laughter)
Sam: Where did it go?
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: Don't tell me "Tary!" Your number one job is to take care of me, and your number two job is to take care of my belongings! That stuff is worth more than you!
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: All right, just get me out of the hole.
Matt: (impact noise)
Laura: By your head.
Sam: Ow!
Travis: I hand him a seashell. I'm sorry.
Sam: Let's go find my armor. I'm going to go look around for it.
Matt: Make a survival check, because you're now tracking.
Sam: Survival? Ten.
Matt: Ten.
Sam: Oh, no. That's a four, so that's three. I'm a negative one for survival. I thought it was 11.
Matt: You spend the next hour asking from person to person on these white sands.
Sam: Excuse me, pardon me. Sorry to interrupt your vacation. Have you seen a lot of armor and a big golden helmet? No? Okay.
Taliesin: Does everybody speak Common?
Matt: A lot of people do. This bay, in particular, because this bay is a bastion of trade.
Sam: They're all German tourists.
Matt: Exactly, yeah. It's a Swiss drop area. It's great. But while everyone here, for the most part, speaks Marquesian, a majority speaks some level of Common.
Taliesin: I was just curious if he was walking up to people and they were staring, going "oh no", and walking on.
Matt: There were probably a couple, but they probably understood him, they just didn't respond. Eventually, you find your way to the resort. You're tired and you're sunburned and you're exhausted. You walk out and see him in this state.
Liam: And by the way, I went to the front desk and I asked which room Mr. de Rolo was staying in, because I wanted to put some of his belongings there, and I hid the armor in Percy and Vex's room.
Taliesin: You'd better have been able to actually convince them.
Matt: Which is what I'm about to get to. Make a deception check.
Liam: Sure. Here's where the Luck is. Yeah. Persuasion, you say?
Matt: Deception.
Liam: Deception. That's a 20.
Matt: 20. Okay, it takes a little bit of convincing, but eventually he sends one of the employees to go along with you. They let you into the room.
Liam: And now I'm coming back to the beach.
Matt: Okay, so as you guys come in at the close of the day-- you've been here for a few days as part of your excursion here-- you all come in as you've had enough time in the sun and you probably need to get out for a little bit.
Liam: Tary, come here.
Sam: Yes?
Liam: While you were messing about with Grog, Percy grabbed your shit and hid it.
Sam: Percival?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: My dear friend?
Liam: He was chortling the whole time.
Sam: I don't believe that he would do such a thing.
Liam: All right. I walk away.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Sam: Let's go to Percy's room. I'm going to go knock on his door.
Matt: Are you in your room, currently?
Taliesin: Oh god, no.
Matt: No answer.
Sam: I try the door.
Matt: It's locked.
Sam: Chime of Opening. (laughter)
Sam: Oh, I can open any fucking door.
Taliesin: Yes!
Travis: Where have you been all our campaign?
Marisha: It took us a year.
Liam: You're like a Swiss army knife of fixing all our problems and trolling.
Laura: We have the same room.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Opens up. Quick glance inside, and there's sand scattered all across the ground, and in the far end, right next to the bed, haphazardly jammed underneath, you see your armor and belongings. (laughter)
Sam: We were science bros! How could he? Doty, this calls for revenge. What of his belongings are there?
Matt: Of yours?
Sam: Of his.
Matt: Of Percival's. That would be-- because you didn't bring everything.
Taliesin: My stuff and Vex's stuff.
Matt: Yeah, so pretty much all of Percival and Vex's belongings are within the room.
Taliesin: Here, take a look. Guns, swords, boots.
Sam: What can we do, Doty? What can we do?
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: Good idea, but a little bit too cruel. (laughter)
Liam: "Kill them all, you say?"
Travis: "But they need their skin to live!"
Sam: All right. I'll go to my cloak and tear off the Patch of Two Mastiffs.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Sam: They're two big dogs, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah, all right. And I'll throw some kibble all over the place and be like, go on, just chew everything up and make a mess and pee wherever you want.
Matt: All right, as you pull the patch and throw it in the room, it glows a bright orange and then flashes and burns into two small coal-like embers that when they slam into the ground, crack and open, and from those two embers you see two full-grown mastiffs. (barking and snorting)
Sam: There's food in there. Eat it all. Scratch through everything you want.
Matt: They both start eating. They go nuts on the place.
Sam: And use this as your latrine as well.
Matt: One of them goes, (sniffs) and just pisses on one of the sacks. You're not quite sure which one it is.
Sam: Good doggy. All right. You're free now. Go away. I don't know.
Matt: Do you leave them in the room?
Sam: Yeah, just stay here, go, whatever you want. I don't know. I feel weird. I don't need a pet right now.
Matt: You leave and close the door behind you? Okay. All right, so you guys meet up again. You get more drinks, you begin to wander the city. Is there anything else you want to do while you're out and about for the afternoon?
Ashley: I want to get my hair braided with beads on the end! (cheering)
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: All righty.
Ashley: And Grog.
Laura: Just the beard?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All right. You guys ask around about a half an hour or so, and you're led to one location that is windowless and has an open archway door with some fine purple and red silks blocking the entry. As you walk inside, there's one woman who's sitting there, in the process of eating a small bowl of fruit. You see she is a dark-skinned Marquesian, but elf lineage. She has elven features. Her hair, which is this dirty brown, is braided in rows that go down past her waist and have a series of multi-colored, looks almost like gems and rings and other cool pieces of jewelry that are woven into it. As she's looking at this small book in her lap and eating the fruit, she turns around. "Oh, I'm sorry. Hello."
Ashley: Hi. Could we get our hair-- yours looks amazing. Could we get some hair braids? Tight and then going down, with some gems and sparkles in it? And same here, on his beard?
Matt: "Oh, the beard. I can do that."
Ashley: Yeah?
Matt: "Yes, of course." Closes her book and sets it down. "Come, sit."
Laura: Some razor blades up in them.
Matt: She calls out in Marquesian for a moment, and a younger woman, probably about 15 or so, comes out. Human, dark-skinned, as well. Both begin to start working on your hair and your beard. Asking about where you're from. It becomes a conversational piece because you're there for a good hour and a half or so to go through all of your hair and get it done, but nevertheless, you now have a fantastic series of braids in your hair.
Travis: She pulled really hard.
Ashley: It looks really good. Do you want to add any jewels in it?
Travis: Jewels?
Ashley: Earrings and stuff like how she has?
Travis: I just want the beads. Little beads and little braids. No jewels. What about you?
Ashley: I want all of it.
Travis: Everything?
Ashley: Just all of it.
Matt: "All of it?"
Ashley: What does all of it cost?
Matt: "If you want more than what I have in mine--"
Ashley: Well, no. Let's not get carried away.
Travis: Do you want extensions?
Ashley: My hair is already so long.
Travis: It is. Do you want other colored hair in there, too?
Ashley: Let's put blue in there.
Matt: "Oh, you wish to color?"
Ashley: Oh, well--
Matt: "No, it's okay."
Travis: Yeah, why not? Fuck it!
Matt: She talks to her assistant, and the young girl runs off for a second with a smile. Comes back, and there is what looks to be some sort of a fruit. Looks like a blue pomegranate that's partially crushed. She takes it and with a mortar and pestle setup begins mashing it and goes, "We can do blue."
Ashley: Yeah!
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: So cool!
Matt: The whole endeavor between the two of you guys is not inexpensive-- few things are in the Bay of Gifts. It's designed specifically to survive and thrive on the trade here. Both of you guys, it costs about 120 gold.
Marisha: Oh shit.
Travis: Not a problem.
Ashley: So how does that break down? For my hair versus his?
Matt: "Oh, for the two? For any sort of masculine hair endeavors, which is not our specialty-- Well, the beads themselves are made from finely blown glass and they're individually colored, and those are made specifically by an artisan who is about three blocks up that way, so those are brought here, and those are purchased on our end, as well. You are paying straight cost of the beads. Time and training, of course, on our end, and we do the finest work you'll find all across Marquet."
Ashley: Well, you know what? I am a very big supporter of small businesses, so support small business, and I will give you 120 gold.
Matt: "The 20 is mainly for him. The 100 was to give you the dye coloring--"
Laura: Oh, it's for both of you guys? Oh, I thought it was 120 each!
Liam: That's all right.
Laura: That's not bad. I mean, that's a lot.
Matt: It's still a lot. But since you've gotten here, you get the sense that it's-- by nature, everything here costs a little more. A lot of it's imported and a lot of it is designed for people that are willing to pay for foreign goods.
Ashley: Great.
Travis: Are we supposed to tip?
Laura: No, she owns the business so you don't have to do as much.
Travis: Are you there?
Ashley: Just 120.
Matt: Very well. So how much blue did you want to get in your hair?
Ashley: Say again?
Matt: How much blue did you want to get in your hair?
Ashley: Just some strips, you know. Just some strips on the white so it pops out.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Just like--
Matt: All right.
Ashley: You know, dealer's choice. Just get creative and do what you want.
Matt: All right. Okay. So upon completion-- It's very cool. It's pretty close to what you were hoping and expecting. You end up with three streaks: one central one that goes from the center, and then two that go from the sides and back that way.
Laura: That's way different than I expected.
Ashley: It's awesome.
Matt: And then all the tips go to blue, so it's almost like you have these two blocks of white and then eventually it all goes blue towards the edge.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Imagine what that'll look like when your hair is down, too, because it'll be like blue all over the top and all mixed in everywhere.
Ashley: Ooh, that's pretty cool.
Travis: Hell yeah.
Matt: So yeah. Anything else you want to accomplish, or call it an evening?
Laura: I think just eat a nice dinner and then head back to the rooms and get ready to wake up in the morning and do all the same shit again.
Marisha: Definitely some magically frozen daiquiris.
Matt: You guys all find your way back with some drinks. The sun has set now, the cold night has come in through the bay, but it's still warm. It's cold by the bay standards, but you guys come from the northern ends, in Tal'Dorei proper it's still a pretty warm night. You hear the waves crashing as you enter the establishment. You all head back to your rooms to get in more evening attire. Percival and Vex-- how long do the hounds last for?
Sam: Let me look.
Taliesin: That's a good question.
Sam: It just says Two Mastiffs. I think they just are. (laughter)
Sam: It's not like a spell or anything, they are two dogs that live now.
Matt: I am so excited. I am so excited.
Travis: They don't live for much longer.
Matt: Okay. So, as soon as you approach, you guys hear, through the door on the other side, this low growl. This (growls).
Taliesin: Vex?
Laura: What is that?
Taliesin: I don't--
Laura: I open the door. Just fucking on guard.
Matt: Okay. You come inside to notice the entire interior of the room has been sundered. Pillows and cloth torn and pulled everywhere. The room smells immediately of heaping piles of dog shit and urine. The bed is scattered and torn open. The curtains have been pulled down, and there, in the center of the room, are two massive mastiffs, mating. (laughter)
Laura: What the fuck!
Taliesin: I grab the door and shut it.
Laura: Who did this?
Taliesin: It was either Grog or your brother. Those are really the only two people who could be possibly responsible--
Laura: Grog! And I take off running to his room.
Matt: Okay. (laughs)
Taliesin: I'm not missing this. I am following.
Matt: Okay. Your door is open, Grog. You're just there sitting down for a second just grabbing your jug. Getting a quick nip before your next nip.
Travis: Yeah, mini-fridge.
Matt: And Vex just storms in, heaving mad.
Travis: Hey. Oh. Hi.
Laura: Did you have anything to do with this? (laughter)
Travis: I feel like I should ask what, but the answer's probably yes?
Laura: The fucking dogs. Grog! I grab him by his beaded beard and drag him back to the room.
Travis: Ah! It's really tight! (yelps)
Matt: Percival, as you catch up-- She comes around the corner just dragging Grog by the beard behind her.
Taliesin: Oh god, she's going to kill you.
Travis: (groans) What in the-- what-- (groans)
Laura: I open the door and throw him in. Did you do this?
Travis: (sniffs) Ugh. What the fuck?
Matt: The dogs have stopped mating at this point and one of them comes over and goes (sniffs, chomp) and just bites into your neck. It does nothing, it just rests there.
Travis: Is this your fucking dog?
Laura: Is this your fucking dog?
Travis: No! Where am I going to get dogs from?
Laura: (huffs) True. (laughter)
Travis: Although I don't think this shit and piss is mine.
Laura: (laughs) That's good.
Travis: Yep.
Laura: What does our room look like? What does our stuff look like? Is it ruined?
Matt: Your stuff isn't--
Liam: Not the magical items.
Taliesin: The stuff in the closet is probably--
Matt: Yeah. You didn't just leave your stuff on the floor, there. You had things put away inside the cabinets and stuff. And the things that were in the cabinets were fine. So most of your general clothing is all right. It's more like your sacks, anything that was just loose. Your boots. All just smell of dog piss.
Laura: How did they even get in? I take off to the front desk. (laughter)
Sam: Oh, shit.
Travis: Can I let the mastiffs have a couple of licks from the alchemy jug full of beer that I was drinking out of?
Matt: They do have a lick. Big old mastiff tongues.
Taliesin: I'm going to go find Vax.
Matt: Okay. As you rush off to the front counter, you can see Guath, the Marquesian, is still there. He's in the process of going through the books, making sure he's keeping everything tidy and he sees you approach. "Ah, hello! Is there anything of--"
Laura: Who-- Hi.
Matt: "Hello."
Laura: Who was in our room? Did you send anyone to our room?
Matt: "Uh. Yes. Yes, there was--"
Laura: Who was it?
Matt: "The other who looks like you. He came by and said that he was supposed to put the-- We had to send--" (laughter)
Sam: Yes!
Matt: "He said he had to put things in the room for you. I am so sorry. I am so sorry. If this is a problem, we can call the-- You wish us to call the guards over here?"
Laura: (scoffs) How? Why? Vax! And I take off running. Vax! Where are you? Where are you?
Liam: I'm in my room.
Laura: Ooh!
Taliesin: I have just turned the corner towards Vax's room. I'm probably just now in eyesight.
Laura: I sprint and I--
Marisha: I just showered, you guys, now's not a good time. I'm just--
Laura: Trinket, off with me, we're ready to fucking fight. He's out of my necklace and we're taking off towards Vax's room.
Liam: Did you say you're coming to the room?
Laura: You are dead.
Taliesin: Can I hear this?
Liam: I mean, practically.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: I can too.
Travis: We're all making our way over to Vax's room.
Liam: Kiki, might want to go to into the bathroom. I think that my sister is coming. Whoa!
Laura: Keyleth.
Marisha: Hi, Vex.
Laura: Put some clothes on.
Liam: I guess I will as well.
Marisha: I feel like we're in trouble.
Laura: Not you.
Liam: Yoink. What?
Laura: What the fuck did you do? Why the fuck would you do that in our room?
Liam: What did I do in your room?
Laura: Destroyed it.
Liam: Why would I destroy your room on the first day of our vacation?
Laura: Did you-- Did he-- Did you-- Why would you?
Liam: I wouldn't. What are you talking about?
Laura: The dogs. Shit and piss everywhere. I know you were in our room.
Liam: Dogs?
Marisha: There are dogs? (gasps) What kind of dogs are they?
Taliesin: Why don't you come with me and I'm going to go show you while they talk.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Are you pranking me? What are you talking about?
Laura: Ooh. I just yank your hair as hard as I can.
Liam: (yells) What are you doing?
Laura: Why would you do it? Why?
Liam: Do what? You have to be more specific.
Laura: Dogs. Shitting and ruining everything in our room.
Liam: What the fuck are you talking about? Dogs? I don't have any dogs.
Laura: Don't you lie to me.
Liam: I don't have any magic. I can heal a little bit and that's it. What are you talking about?
Laura: They're not even magic dogs, they're just dogs! Can I roll to see if he's fucking telling the truth?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Liam: I'll make my deception check.
Taliesin: Kiki, we've always been friends.
Marisha: Yeah, of course.
Laura: 18.
Taliesin: I want you to know this is nothing personal but this is--
Travis: Is that your second Luck?
Liam: Yes, it was.
Matt: That's the second Luck, yeah.
Taliesin: And I open the door and show you. And then I shove you in and shut the door for a moment.
Matt: You can see he's covering up. You don't quite know the full specifics, but you know he's covering.
Laura: I know you were in our room and I know you're lying to me.
Liam: I was not in your room. I am not lying to you, I don't-- (yells)
Laura: I just yank him out of the room. Trinket!
Liam: What are you-- what?
Laura: Sic him! (laughter)
Matt: At this point, she's pulled you out into the hallway. You now see, the bear you've grown up with and loved, for the first time, you realize how massive and scary this bear could be as it (growls, heavy steps).
Liam: I click my Boots of Haste!
Travis: You were fucking naked a second ago.
Matt: Trinket charges you.
Liam: This is improvisation. If I say it, it's real. That's how this fucking works.
Sam: You were putting on your boots?
Matt: So what are you doing? Trinket's coming at you.
Liam: I'm running in my boots!
Matt: All right.
Laura: I have the back of his head. I have his hair.
Liam: Disengage.
Matt: Okay. So hold on. She does have your hair.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Technically, it's a grapple.
Liam: Okay. You want to make it a strength check? I know my strength is double hers.
Laura: (gasps) Your strength is double mine?
Matt: It's athletics and acrobatics versus her--
Liam: Okay. Oh, acrobatics, okay.
Laura: Versus my strength?
Matt: I'll double-check real fast. I should remember this, but for this one particularly I want to make sure that I get specifics right here.
Taliesin: This is so great.
Sam: Forget rolling for sand castles, this is it. (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, man. This is the craziest shit. (laughs) I didn't expect it to go this way.
Taliesin: I vaguely wonder what you actually had planned for this.
Matt: Not all this!
Taliesin: This is bedlam, at this point.
Matt: This went in a whole different direction.
Sam: A big title card comes over the frame  Night One. (laughter)
Matt: Okay, yeah. It's athletics or acrobatics versus her athletics.
Laura: Oh.
Liam: Well, I will choose acrobatics.
Laura: Motherfuck.
Matt: Go ahead and roll your acrobatics. Roll your athletics.
Laura: Ugh, it was almost good.
Liam: 29.
Laura: Six!
Matt: You slip out from her grasp right as Trinket comes upon you. What's your speed?
Liam: Fucking wicked, man. I'm double-speed, so 60.
Matt: You don't have your boots on, you just put your pants on!
Ashley: Weren't you in the shower?
Matt: You mimicked putting your pants on.
Liam: All right. 30.
Matt: Okay. Trinket's movement is?
Laura: Oh, he's got 40.
Matt: Trinket is gaining on you. (laughter)
Matt: You watch as an older couple emerge from the room down the hallway and go, "Nope." And close the door.
Liam: I see food trays left by other customers. I start knocking them down and dumping food on the rug behind me as I run. It's improv. It's real!
Matt: There are small baskets.
Liam: I said I saw food!
Matt: Yeah, so you knock some baskets behind you and you keep running. You just emerge from the edge of the hallway. You can see the beach ahead of you. You can see the little bit of moonlight hitting the sand in front.
Liam: What's around me?
Matt: Hallways and doors.
Marisha: Is our room nearby? Did he see me get shoved in?
Taliesin: He wouldn't have seen you get shoved in, but he would have seen me in the hallway at this point, if he passed her.
Matt: I'd say you moved one direction. Trinket went and chased him down the other side, so this is going away from you guys.
Marisha: Hey, Vax? I think they're really mad at us.
Liam: Little busy, little busy, little busy!
Matt: Just as you emerge to part of the sand and you think you're home free, you stop hearing Trinket's footfalls. (whack) Leapt and just impacts you on the sand and both of you tumble, end-over-end, through the sand. Eventually, you land flat on your back and Trinket pounces on top of you, your breath (groans) as your chest gets closed in. And right up in your face, pinning you down, going (growls).
Liam: I immediately start doing this.
Sam: What is that?
Liam: This is me rubbing his tummy.
Laura: Oh. Don't fall for it, Trinket!
Matt: (growls) (laughter)
Matt: You are pinned by a very heavy bear, to the point where your breathing is (shallow panting).
Liam: You hear from under the bear, (muffled) I have been here before, and I will be here again!
Laura: Why would you do it? It's such a beautiful vacation and you ruined it. You ruined all of our things.
Liam: Did I ruin it? What did I ruin? I still don't know what happened.
Laura: Vax, you let two dogs loose in our room and they shit and pissed all over everything, and our bed is ruined. They were fucking in our bed!
Liam: I did not fucking let two dogs--
Laura: Then what did you do? I know you were in our room. I know you're lying to me.
Liam: I was there for five seconds. I put Taryon's armor under the bed and then I left. I was in there for 30 seconds. I don't have any dogs. I don't know dogs.
Laura: Why would you put Taryon's armor in our room?
Liam: Because it was fucking hilarious!
Laura: Wait a minute.
Marisha: That's the trolliest thing you've said, ever!
Laura: Did you tell Tary?
Liam: I did.
Laura: So Tary did this?
Liam: What happened?
Laura: Someone let two giant dogs loose in our room, and they destroyed our things. Just destroyed it. And now, on top of having everything ruined, we're probably going to have to pay for damages. Which will be coming out of your funds, by the way.
Liam: That's the funniest bit, because I have no money.
Laura: Well, then Keyleth. Trinket, stay on him for a while. Just for a while. Feel free to relieve yourself. (laughter)
Matt: Trinket's head slowly turns over back towards you with a, "What?"
Laura: Just a little time. And I walk.
Matt: As you walk away, Trinket's head moves back to you, and if you could see a bear smile?
Liam: Yeah. When she's gone and it's just us, I say, she thinks I care. I don't care. Does she let you kiss her? No, she doesn't. But you get to kiss me all you want, so have at it, buddy.
Matt: Trinket goes, (grunts).
Liam: It's all right.
Matt: And you feel your lower regions get warmer. (groaning and laughter)
Laura: You got pissed on.
Liam: I've been inside a dragon's fucking stomach, buddy. I don't care. The beach is 50 feet that way. Get it all out.
Matt: All right, while you're pinned there, you march off. You guys just now catch up to the chaos.
Marisha: I have to say, wherever these dogs came from, they're very beautiful dogs. Look purebred. Very great muscular structure. Come here, boys. Come here!
Matt: Keyleth's currently getting the mastiffs out of the room.
Marisha: Can I Speak With Animals to them?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Come here, boys. Come here. I take out some beef jerky. Come here. That's good boys. Good boys.
Laura: Where did you have beef jerky?
Marisha: Fish jerky from where we were at the casino earlier.
Sam: Oh snap!
Marisha: As Liam O'Brien said, it's improv, so that makes it true!
Laura: I'm just wondering--
Liam: You fucking made out that you were hiding in crystal clear bathwater, motherfucker! If you say it, it's real!
Marisha: Right, so just like the internet, if you say it, it's real. Come here, boys.
Matt: Animal handling.
Marisha: Oh, it smells. You boys did a number in this room. Okay. (laughter)
Marisha: I've got to have some advantage for being a fucking druid, right?
Matt: No.
Marisha: That's a one.
Matt: So you say, "Come here, boys." They both look at you. They rush up, grab the jerky out of your hands, and dart out of the room. You hear them, (barks) vanishing.
Marisha: Fuck these dogs! That's why you said we should never own dogs.
Matt: Taryon?
Sam: I'm getting night cream put on me by Doty. (laughter)
Sam: Doty, could you sing to me?
Matt: (sings) "Tary. Tary. Tary." It's all the same. It's all horribly mechanical-sounding and echo-y. It's not singing more than it's repeating your name over and over again in the same intonation. It's horrifying.
Marisha: Percy?
Taliesin: You're going to have to help us clean at least our personal belongings.
Marisha: I didn't do this! I'm more than happy to help, but I just want you to know: I had nothing to do with this.
Taliesin: Oh, I know. I know you had nothing to do with this. He's useless. You're not, so I'm going to make you help on his behalf.
Marisha: It smells like shit. Like a giant fucking locker down shit in here.
Taliesin: Worse than hell. Legitimately worse than hell. This is making me miss hell.
Marisha: I'm going to cast Control Water. Can I magic this clean-up like it's Fantasia or some shit?
Matt: That is Prestidigitation.
Marisha: No, can I Control Water and levitate the urine?
Travis: Yeah, totally.
Matt: You know what? Yes, I'll let you do that. I will let you Control Urine.
Marisha: I am the leader of my tribe, and I am doing janitorial duties. Ugh.
Matt: After completing your Aramente, after years of training in the druidic arts and becoming the leader of your people, you are reduced to lifting the urine from a ruined hotel room.
Taliesin: I would like you to meditate upon who is responsible for this.
Marisha: Fucking Vox Machina pieces of-- why am I-- why are we us?
Taliesin: This is your boy. I'm taking no responsibility for this one.
Marisha: Okay, I control the water and fling it into the ocean.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm hearing all this over the earring, and I whisper, only to Trinket: I'm back, Trinket. I'm back. (laughter)
Marisha: I control a little of the urine that dribbled in the hall, as well. I don't want us to get kicked out by the hotel.
Matt: The room's still destroyed. For the sake of brevity, here--
Taliesin: Some wild dogs attacked our room.
Matt: Who's talking to the manager about this?
Laura: Percy is.
Taliesin: I'll speak to the manager.
Matt: All right.
Sam: (giggles) Wild dogs?
Marisha: Wild ocean dogs. Beach dogs.
Matt: So at this point, while all this has happened, Guath, the gentleman at the front, sees the bear and is like, "What is going--" (yelps) The dogs go (barks) and jump past him. The slightly chubby halfling comes forward. "What the fuck is going on?"
Marisha: You tell us, man.
Matt: "No, you tell me. This is my place! Whose dogs were those?"
Taliesin: We have no idea. We came back and they were in our room, pissing on our stuff.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Taliesin: This is not deception!
Matt: You know whose they are.
Taliesin: Actually, do I know whose they are?
Matt: You've been hearing it over the earring this whole time.
Taliesin: I don't know where they came from.
Travis: That's true, he hasn't said.
Matt: That's true.
Taliesin: I'll do deception.
Matt: Persuasion.
Taliesin: Persuasion? Well, deception's higher, but I'll try persuasion. (laughter)
Marisha: What the fuck, man?
Taliesin: No, god damn it.
Sam: Honor yourself.
Taliesin: I'm honoring myself. It doesn't matter, anyway. That's 27.
Matt: He goes, (sighs).
Taliesin: I mean, it was upsetting. Your property, our property. This is our problem. All of us.
Matt: "Let me see." He pulls past and makes his way towards the room, and looks inside, and you can see him go, (distressed noise).
Taliesin: Has this happened before?
Matt: "No! I've never seen those dogs here before. The breed? They don't exist!" (laughter)
Taliesin: I've never seen them before, either. I've never seen anything like it.
Matt: (exclaims in a foreign language)
Taliesin: How good a job did you do on our stuff?
Matt: It's still torn and messed up, but it's not covered in urine. It still smells terrible in there.
Liam: Your clothes and bullshit is fine.
Taliesin: I know.
Matt: "I'm so sorry."
Taliesin: It's hardly your fault. This is ridiculous.
Matt: "We'll get you a new room immediately. Hey!" Two servants come out immediately. He starts shouting out to them in Marquesian. They walk off and eventually people start coming in and pulling your stuff out of the room and taking it to another chamber. It's down two halls over, so you guys are separated from everybody else.
Taliesin: We have a lot of foreign guests as well, in our establishment back home, so I know how things can sometimes get a bit crazy, and I certainly don't want to put any undue pressure on you.
Matt: "Oh, it is okay. We will launch an investigation immediately."
Taliesin: Excellent.
Matt: So. (laughs) Vex, anything else you want to do?
Laura: Yeah, I want to go knock on Tary's door.
Matt: You hear through the doorway this really creepy, "Tary. Tary."
Sam: I'll take off my blinders, my night-blinders.
Taliesin: Do they actually have little cucumbers drawn on them?
Sam: My mask. Come in.
Laura: Do you have Doty singing to you again?
Sam: Oh, yes. He sings me to sleep now. It's sort of a ritual we have.
Laura: I shut the door.
Sam: Did you have a nice night, Little Elf Girl?
Laura: I didn't, Goldie. Actually, did you happen to set a couple of dogs loose in our room?
Sam: Well, between you and me, I did.
Laura: Oh, you did?
Sam: You see, Percival played a little bit of a prank on me, and I got him back.
Laura: Yes. Well, you also got me back, and actually, it wasn't Percival, it was my brother who did it. Stole your armor?
Sam: But he told me that it was--
Laura: Yes.
Sam: He told me--
Laura: Yes, and you believed him over your two best friends?
Sam: You've taught me so much, but not about the human heart. (sighs) I am so sorry. I should have trusted you.
Laura: You should've!
Sam: I should have not doubted my staunchest ally, Percival. Of course, someone as trained as he is in the sciences wouldn't lie to me like that. I failed you.
Laura: Tary, you know I can't stay mad at you!
Sam: I'm so sorry! (laughter)
Sam: What can I do to make it up?
Laura: I don't know--
Sam: Doty, go clean their room.
Laura: Thank you, dear.
Sam: I'm so sorry.
Laura: Oh, it was disgusting.
Sam: But your brother.
Laura: I know! Trinket peed on him.
Sam: Trinket peed on him? Well, that's pretty good. I feel like there's more revenge to be had, but you know what? We're on vacation.
Liam: Over their earrings, they hear, he also dropped a loaf.
Laura: He also dropped a loaf, apparently.
Sam: That's nice. All right. I'm so sorry. Will you forgive me?
Laura: Of course I do, dear. Have a wonderful night's sleep.
Sam: You, too.
Laura: I'll send Doty back when he's done.
Sam: He can last forever, so just as long as you need him. He'll wash whatever you need. He has motor skills. Not fine motor skills, but he could try to sew something if anything was ripped.
Laura: I'll check it out and I'll let you know.
Sam: And if you ever need more dogs?
Laura: You're the man to call.
Taliesin: I see Doty appear, correct?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Doty, they're going to take our things. I know why you're here.
Matt: He just walks past you. (laughter)
Matt: Enters the room.
Taliesin: Are our things even in our room anymore?
Matt: Your things are being brought out in pieces, but the two employees see Doty enter and set them down and Doty starts picking things up and dusts them off. Starts picking up the piles of dog feces.
Taliesin: Tary, call him off.
Sam: Sorry?
Taliesin: Call him off.
Sam: I'm sorry? Call him off?
Taliesin: Call him off.
Sam: He's cleaning your things.
Taliesin: No. We're getting another room.
Marisha: What is he throwing away?
Matt: He's throwing the dung out onto the beach. Starts heading back.
Sam: I should have been more specific.
Marisha: I don't think he's very sanitary.
Sam: This is my earring, by the way.
Taliesin: I know.
Sam: This is how I have to talk with it. I have to dangle it.
Taliesin: I know you have to fiddle your dangle. I'm well aware.
Sam: All right, I'll be right there to give him more specific instructions.
Taliesin: We're going to sleep.
Sam: I'm coming.
Liam: Do you improve the reception by moving it around?
Matt: Okay. Over the course of the evening, the room gets cleaned as best as it can.
Taliesin: We do not tell them what our new room number is.
Matt: You guys, from that point being the most contentious, but you manage to enjoy the rest of your stay here in the Bay of Gifts. You enjoy a nice, well-earned vacation, some of you plotting the next stage in your vengeance, whenever that may occur. Boarding your ship back, making your way to your home in Tal'Dorei, across back to Whitestone proper to finish the remainder of your year's journey. We're going to take a break. Before I go, real fast, letting you guys know, we have another giveaway tonight. This is a nice purple heart Wyrmwood mini holder, which is pretty rad.
Sam: Is that what I have?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: I love it. Honestly, this is the best color. It's so cool. It's kinda like rose gold, therefore it's the best. (laughter)
Matt: There you go. Yeah, so this is going to go to one of you lucky winners in the chat. The code word for tonight is Momocon. M-O-M-O-C-O-N. So go ahead and we'll do that over the break. Enjoy Liam's episode of Signal Boost.
Ashley: It's so good!
Liam: Man, that was pure Dungeons and Dragons. I took a little pebble and dropped it and it turned into a frigging avalanche on the side of Everest.
Taliesin: That reminded me of the old home games quite a bit.
Matt: I wasn't expecting that to become our beach episode, but it did! (laughs) All right, guys, we'll see you here in a little bit. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, everybody, to Critical Role. (laughter)
Matt: First and foremost, our winner in the chat room goes by the name of Makelovelikewar, congratulations! Congratulations. You won the box. We've all signed it, and it'll be coming to you in the near future. Make sure to contact the folks who run the chat here, and they'll get your information, and well done. All righty, so. Bringing us back in. You guys have been travelling across the Silvercut Roadway, through the dividing plains of Tal'Dorei, onwards to the Alabaster Sierras, and eventually to the homestead of Whitestone. You guys have made your way back.
Marisha: We catch up on so much gossip.
Matt: (laughs) So you arrive. What do you want to do?
Travis: Well, actually, now that we're home, I would like to try and find Pike once we're in and settled.
Matt: So you guys all get settled and you find your way to your rooms. The afternoon comes to a close for the evening, and everyone's gone off to do their business and prepare for a dinner, we'll say, in about an hour.
Travis: Cool. Hey. Hey. Oh, sorry.
Ashley: Hello?
Travis: Hey, it's Grog.
Ashley: Oh, come in!
Travis: Huh, what?
Ashley: Okay. (laughter)
Ashley: Hi, Grog.
Travis: Hi! Hey. Hey. Hey. So, can I shut the door? So I--
Ashley: Yes?
Travis: Oh, okay. I shut the door. So, I have a secret.
Ashley: Ooh?
Travis: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ashley: Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.
Travis: Okay, so. When we beat Thordak, I was rummaging around and all of Emon's treasures were in this one place and everybody was like, "Meh, we want to heal," and I found these little gifts, and one of them was this little itty-bitty deck of cards.
Ashley: (gasps)
Travis: I know, right? Now, here's the thing. It was in a really pretty box: wooden box with gold all over it. I tried to open it, and it wouldn't, so I smashed it.
Ashley: Naturally.
Travis: Like you do.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: And I took it out. And I drew a card from it, and this magic sword appeared in my hand.
Ashley: (gasps) So something magic comes out of it when you pick one? Can I pick one?
Travis: Yeah. Do you want to?
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah. So I also went and I was journeying around. I went to Vasselheim. Now, here's the thing. Vex was like, "No, don't pick one, it's dangerous. Mm."
Ashley: Wait, it can be dangerous?
Travis: Well, no. She's afraid that it's dangerous, right? Because the sword, it turned to rust, and I got a headache afterwards. Whatever.
Ashley: Okay. Oh.
Travis: But I think I didn't handle it right. But I went to Vasselheim, and I had this other guy pick a card. You know?
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: And he picked a card. He got two Wishes.
Ashley: What!
Travis: Just like that! And he made himself--
Ashley: That sounds like the best thing ever.
Travis: I know! He's the Lord of the Crossroads.
Ashley: The Crossroads.
Travis: Yep.
Ashley: (gasps)
Travis: He's rich; he had a servant who appeared out of nowhere. All of a sudden he had fuckin' dope-ass threads.
Ashley: Should we-- Whoa. Should we pick a card?
Travis: I mean, I feel like we should. I've seen nothing but good things happen. (laughter)
Ashley: Wait, what do you mean this sword gave you a headache, Grog?
Travis: Well, I don't know. So it was a magic sword, right? I was going to be able to throw it and it would fight without me. Like it would just fight things that I told it to.
Ashley: Was it evil?
Travis: No! I tried talking to it and it didn't say anything.
Ashley: Okay, that's a--
Travis: We have a history.
Ashley: That's a red flag.
Travis: I know. I have a history of, you know.
Ashley: So it didn't talk back to you.
Travis: Nope.
Ashley: It fought on its own.
Travis: Yep.
Ashley: A guy that you met, you made him just rich and amazing.
Travis: Yeah. Pretty much. I think it's a Deck of Fortunate Things.
Ashley: A Deck of Fortune?
Travis: I think so. I mean, I haven't really looked at it too closely. Do you want to look at it with your knowledge?
Ashley: I mean, I don't, yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: I don't know if I have the knowledge, but I'll look at it.
Travis: All right. I give her the deck.
Matt: All right, make an arcana check. (gasping)
Ashley: Natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: But what's your skill? What's your skill bonus?
Ashley: Plus one. So 21.
Matt: Okay, you take the small sack that contains the cards, and you pull the deck out of it, and you inspect it from the outside. Just checking the inscriptions. You've heard things about magical decks of cards. Sometimes they're used to see the future. Sometimes they're used for different types of augury and divination. You might've heard a myth or two about a card deck that can alter reality in good and bad ways. That's as much as you are able to glean from this.
Ashley: Can I tell which cards are good and which cards are bad?
Matt: No.
Ashley: I was just checking. (laughter)
Ashley: I figured the answer would be 'no'.
Matt: But you do know from looking at this, while the name doesn't come to you, you're able to ascertain this seems to be very, very in line with the fate-altering deck of cards, the one you've heard can do good and bad, and is as powerful and dangerous as it is interesting.
Ashley: I feel like I've heard of something like this before.
Travis: Really?
Ashley: But sometimes you can choose a card that will do very bad things.
Travis: Oh.
Ashley: So it's like a 50/50 chance that you could get something very good. Like, you have your fortune change, you become a king, all of this thing--
Travis: Or you make a bad person a king?
Ashley: Or you get a magical sword. Or if maybe someone-- you could just die instantly.
Travis: Really?
Ashley: I don't know, maybe. Something along those lines.
Travis: But we're good people, so good things would happen to us.
Ashley: (strained) Oh, it just sounds so fun though.
Travis: I know, right? And think about my previous experience. There is nothing bad that has happened in what I've seen so far.
Laura: (laughs) Oh god.
Ashley: (strained) Oh, I don't know what to do. Well, do you want to pull one or should I pull one? Or should we not?
Travis: I don't know. I mean, like, I kind of want to. I mean, so like. Like bad things.
Ashley: What could be that bad? I mean, if someone were to die, we could do a Resurrection spell.
Travis: How could it just outright kill you? Well if you die, I can't do a spell.
Ashley: (sighs) I don't know what to do. I don't know if we should. I don't know if we should test the fates.
Travis: We should flip a coin.
Ashley: Let's flip a coin.
Travis: Okay. Do you have a coin?
Ashley: Yeah, I have a coin.
Travis: Oh, you do? That was lucky.
Matt: All right. Did you--
Marisha: "We shouldn't test the fates, let's flip a coin." (laughter)
Matt: Do you want me to flip a coin for you?
Liam: You can roll a 20.
Laura: Oh yeah, no. We have coins.
Marisha: I've got one on hand right now, beotches.
Travis: Do you want to?
Matt: It's up to you guys. This is entirely your call.
Marisha: Here it is.
Laura: Oh, Melora.
Liam: Coming in.
Laura: There you go.
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: What if all the good ones are gone?
Ashley: Heads or tails. Okay, so one is heads.
Travis: Heads, because that's all bad in the heads. But the tail is the booty, so.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Wait, but what is what?
Ashley: So what's what? 20, we pick a card. One, we do not.
Liam: 20, we don't pick a card.
Ashley: 20, we don't pick a card.
Liam: 20 is sensible. One is ridiculous.
Ashley: You are not here.
Travis: Yeah, what do you feel like? What do you feel like? One, we pick a card. 20, we don't-- we do pick a card. (laughter)
Ashley: That's both of those. You said we'd pick a card both sides.
Travis: That was a Fraudidean slip. (laughter)
Ashley: Yeah. One, we pick a card. 20, we don't.
Travis: Okay.
Ashley: Who picks the card? Or should we--
Travis: We should flip for that too.
Ashley: Okay, okay, I'm going to check it. Oh, we don't pick a card.
Travis: But that was for you, you flipped. And now I flip.
Ashley: Okay. Oh. You don't pick a card either. You know what? It's safer this way.
Travis: It is?
Ashley: I think so. Because what if we would've gotten something bad? Did you want me to hold onto it? Or do you want to hold onto it? I'm just afraid you're going to pick it and be alone.
Travis: I might. (laughter)
Travis: No, I want it. I really want it. It's real important to me.
Ashley: Do not. Pick it. Alone.
Travis: I've made this promise before. (laughter)
Ashley: Who did you make the promise to?
Travis: Vex.
Ashley: Well, you live your life how you want to--
Travis: Oh. Ooh. No, your promise was different. You said 'alone' so if I was like really, (distressed noise) I need to, I come to you--
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: And we pick it.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Okay. Deal.
Ashley: Yeah, okay.
Travis: Thanks. You're sure you don't want to just, like, slide one out and just take a look at it?
Ashley: Just take a peek?
Travis: Yep. All right, fine. (laughter)
Ashley: (strained) I want to so bad.
Travis: All right.
Laura: That is fate. Helping us.
Ashley: I know.
Taliesin: That was like watching an eight-year-old juggle a gun. (laughter)
Laura: Was that another 20?
Travis: Yes. (laughter)
Liam: They both want to do it so bad.
Matt: I know.
Marisha: Moving on from that scene before they change their mind.
Matt: We'll say for the point of the narrative, a couple of weeks go by, relatively unimpactful.
Laura: Oh, I get my circle!
Matt: Yeah, the Teleportation Circle is complete.
Laura: Hey, guys. We can go to Syngorn whenever we want.
Marisha: Oh, rad.
Laura: Tight, right?
Liam: The question is, do we want to?
Laura: Probably not!
Marisha: Can I go check in with the Sun Tree while I'm here?
Matt: Yeah, sure. So you walk on down to the center of Whitestone, which is now far more full of life and bustling. A lot of the buildings that line the square have little flower boxes underneath the windows. Color has returned to it. Still keeps moody gray skies a large portion of the day, but overall the city itself seems to have sprung into life over the past year or so. The Sun Tree is beautiful. It's still a vastly bark-visible tree. It has that orange-brown color across it, smooth in most places, a little more textured toward the bottom, but you see the very lush green leaves up into the boughs. You can see little bits of white flowers that year-round reside up in the top. It stands there before you in all of its magnificence.
Marisha: I come up and say, hey, Sun Tree. Casting Speak With Plants, of course.
Matt: "Hey, Keyleth."
Marisha: Hey!
Matt: "It's been a while."
Marisha: It's been so long. You're looking so good. So healthy.
Matt: "Thanks. I've been eating right."
Marisha: Yeah? Have you been working out?
Matt: "As much as I can. You know, I'm a tree."
Marisha: Sure. Yeah. How's it been? Whitestone seems so much better. Seems happier. Has morale been up?
Matt: "I mean, yeah."
Marisha: Yeah?
Matt: "There's kids and stuff."
Marisha: Yeah? Do the kids sometimes climb in you?
Matt: "Yeah."
Marisha: Do you like that?
Matt: "No."
Marisha: No? Oh, right.
Matt: "No, it's uncomfortable."
Marisha: Really?
Matt: "Yeah."
Marisha: Should I put a Do Not Climb sign on you? Would you like that?
Matt: "Would you have to nail it into me?"
Marisha: No. I could stake it in the ground around you.
Matt: "It's fine."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "But thank you. I appreciate the offer."
Marisha: Anything to make you more comfortable, man.
Matt: "Appreciate it."
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: "You're great."
Marisha: Oh, thanks. Anyway, is there anything else that you need? Any new news? Anything going on?
Matt: "Nah. Glad the snowing stopped."
Marisha: Right? Thought that winter would last forever, right?
Matt: "It's hard to keep these blossoms up through the winter, let me tell you."
Marisha: Oh, yeah? But you're still good.
Matt: "Yeah. How are you doing, Kiki?"
Marisha: Oh, you know. Keeping busy, keeping on keeping on, you know? It's been good. You're like the coolest person I know, and you're a tree. It's weird. Even after a year, it's like talking to an old friend. It's good.
Matt: "If I could blush." (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh wow.
Marisha: Oh, look! Some of these flowers are getting a little pink, Sun Tree.
Matt: "Don't point it out. It's embarrassing. So. Hi."
Marisha: No, that's all. It's actually getting a little awkward now. It's gone on for a little long.
Matt: "I'm glad you brought that up. I didn't want to breach the subject."
Marisha: I just wanted to make sure you were cool.
Matt: "No, I'm cool."
Marisha: Yeah. Awesome. Okay, I'll see you around. Bye.
Matt: Hang up.
Laura: It's going to be a while before you guys call again.
Marisha: I'll wait for him to text me first. Yeah. It's the rule. Long time.
Taliesin: I don't know what they're looking at.
Matt: I don't know, either. Partway into the day, we'll say that you've been doing this. The bakery's been going fine. Which, actually, Pike and Vex, you've been in the process of-- have you guys hired employees to run the bakery?
Laura: Obviously.
Matt: Are you more playing as managers as opposed to actual workers?
Marisha: Owners.
Laura: Creative input.
Matt: Pike, on this day, you've been keeping tabs on this. A couple of the Pale Guard approach the bakery. One of them, without seeing you, walks in and goes, "We're looking for Pike. Is Miss Pike in?"
Ashley: Yes?
Matt: "Could you please come with us? There's somebody on the border requesting your presence."
Ashley: Where?
Matt: "On the outskirts of Whitestone."
Ashley: Okay. Yes.
Matt: "Someone who says they know you. You'd better come with us."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: The two guards step back and-- do you walk with them?
Ashley: Yes.
Laura: Are any of us with you?
Matt: It's just her, at the moment.
Marisha: Does she walk past the Sun Tree when I'm having a random conversation with no one?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Rolling really shitty tonight. Let's see what happens. Oh, that's good! That's much better. Straight perception? 30.
Matt: Okay. As you're walking away from the Sun Tree and begin heading back to the northern side of Whitestone, glancing back at him. "Oh, it's good to talk to him again." And you see Pike walking with two guards just on the southwestern side of the square. She looks a little nervous.
Marisha: It's about that time I'm like, okay, bye, Sun Tree. And then I'm going to Beast Shape into a crow and start circling her.
Matt: There are two kids off to the side that were just playing who look over and go, "Whoa."
Laura: That was amazing!
Ashley: That was awesome!
Matt: "I want to do that!"
Marisha: Poop on the way up.
Laura: That was even cooler!
Matt: They did not see that. So, as you're brought to the western road, it leads you alongside the shops and one of the guard who's talking to you is like, "Yeah, sorry. A group of folks have been here for a couple of days asking-- a few hours, I should say. Not a couple of days. Asking about you. We've kept an eye on them. They don't seem to be aggressive, but they asked for you recently, and we managed to find you by the bakery. Here they are." They lead you to the outside of the town, and there you see a small carriage with two horses that are currently hitched up front. You see about three other Pale Guard in full armor. One of them is in the middle of conversation with a couple of figures. You see four figures. You see three, and then a fourth one emerges from inside the carriage. It's a topped carriage with what looks to be some sort of curtains that are closed-- reds and dark purples. It doesn't look like an elaborate carriage, but it's functional. You see a male gnome with short dark hair, slicked to one side, and a well-groomed mustache that curls at the end. He's in the middle of talking when he glances over and sees you and goes, "Aha! She's here!" He leaps off the top and the guards get defensive as he goes, "Astra! Ogden! JB? She's here!" Then he goes rushing off in your direction as the guards are like, "Sir! Sir!" He ignores them for a second, and the two guards with you say, "Miss Pike, should we?" And they go for their blades.
Ashley: It's okay.
Matt: He approaches real fast and goes, (laughs) and gives a big old hug and lifts you off the ground, and it takes you a minute to realize, this is Johann Trickfoot, your cousin who you haven't seen in quite a long time. He's dressed in a fine vest that is a dark maroon color with a gold trim. A little ragged at the edges, but fine. Big, swishy pants and boots, and he lifts you up for a second and then sets you back down and is like, "It's been quite a while."
Ashley: It's been so long. How did you know where to find me?
Matt: "Well, we got your letter! And we've been hearing all about you-- at least, JB's been telling us all about you, hasn't she?" And he looks around and you see the other figures as they approach. There's a female gnome, older than you, who you haven't met before, who has curly strawberry-blonde hair that goes just past her shoulders. She's wearing this very revealing shirt and seems to walk with a confidence and smile and she goes, "Pike, my dear! I've heard all about you!" And she rushes up and gives you a big hug as well. You look back, and stepping off the carriage, you see a very old gnome who is just a wreath of black and salt-and-pepper hair, crazy, around him like a lion's mane, and a giant beard. You wouldn't see a face if not for these small spectacles and a little button nose poking out as he's being helped off the wagon by another female gnome that you recognize as she turns around towards you. She has long, straight black hair that goes right past her shoulders. She has a Wednesday Addams vibe to her. She looks back at you and smiles, and you can see this gap in her front teeth. She's about your age. This is JB Trickfoot. She is the--
Marisha: JB?
Matt: JB. She's another one of your cousins. One that you grew up with, actually, when you were very young, but you haven't seen her in a very long time. As they all begin to approach, this small cluster of Trickfoots have approached. As JB walks up to answer Johann, says, "Yes, indeed. We've heard all about you. I've been so proud to hear that you've done such great good in the world, cousin."
Ashley: I give her a hug. It's good to see you. It's been a very long time.
Matt: "Far too long."
Ashley: Did you guys just come here to see me?
Matt: "Yes." Johann claps his arm on the side of your shoulder. "Yes, of course! It's been-- I can't even remember. Look at how big you are! Last I saw you, you were waist-high to a knuckle-punch. It's been far too long. And so strong!" He's slapping the side of your arm, and they're all doing the whole family gathering, pulling and tugging, and you're starting to feel uncomfortable from all the attention, and the guards are all confused but also mildly amused by this family gathering. The old one now catches up, and you recognize that this is your uncle Ogden Trickfoot, who is the father to both Johann and JB. As he approaches, he has this small walking cane and he's walking at an angle because he doesn't quite see you. He's like, "Are you sure that she's around?"
Ashley: I'm right here!
Matt: "Huh?"
Ashley: Hi.
Matt: "Ah. Yes."
Ashley: How are you?
Matt: "I'm all right. It's so good to see you."
Ashley: It's so wonderful to see you.
Matt: "There you are."
Ashley: I'm here.
Matt: He adjusts his head a little. "They tell me that you slay dragons!"
Ashley: Yes, I did. With my friends.
Matt: "What?"
Ashley: Who I would love to introduce you guys to. My friends?
Matt: "What did she say?"
Ashley: My friends!
Matt: JB's like, "She said yes. She's slayed dragons."
Ashley: I also--
Matt: "What?"
Ashley: I also have a bakery!
Matt: "She says a bakery?"
Ashley: It's called the Slayer's Cake!
Matt: "Cake?" Suddenly you see his face brighten. Between the bursts of facial and head hair, you see a little bit of rosy cheeks poke through with a smile. JB goes, "We'll get you cake. We'll get you a cake, uncle."
Ashley: Come this way. I didn't realize you guys would be coming, but I'm glad that you got my letter and everything else.
Matt: At which point, the blonde one goes, "Yes, of course we did. You are as beautiful as everything they told me. I'm Astra, by the way. I'm Johann's wife. We haven't met, but you are a sight to see." She takes your hands and pulls your hands and goes, "Oh my, and aren't you the strapping young lady. Who's the lucky man?"
Ashley: Oh. Well, no one right now.
Matt: "Oh. Shouldn't be a problem. Or woman. Whatever, I don't know. You can tell me later."
Ashley: We'll discuss later, maybe, but do come in. I would love to introduce you to some friends of mine. Come into town.
Matt: JB's smile creeps, and you see the gap in her teeth once more. "Are these friends Vox Machina?"
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: At which point, they all look at her, and she goes, "I'm so excited. Please?" And they all gather around you, and the guard comes up real fast. "Miss, do you require assistance?"
Ashley: Just walk us into town. That would be great. Just in case there's anything that might jump out and get us.
Matt: "Very well." And the three guards that were at the front shout out, "The carriage?" And Johann goes, "Oh, yes! Well, it's now under the watch of one Pike Trickfoot, so just put it wherever the royal horses go." (chuckles)
Travis: Oh god.
Laura: Oh, I don't like them at all.
Liam: A cart of the Sackville-Bagginses just rolled up.
Ashley: Let me-- you know what? Guards, can you take them to the Slayer's Cake? And I will be right there.
Matt: "Of course! You're a busy woman. Don't worry about it." Astra fluffs her hair a bit. "Besides, I can have a guard escort me any day." The guard just grabs her arm and starts walking along with her. You can already tell she's a bubbly flirt.
Marisha: Keyleth flies down and lands on Pike's shoulder.
Ashley: Hey. Okay, so you just saw that. My family's here, the family I haven't really seen since I was a kid, and they're-- we have the last name Trickfoot for a reason. I'm going to get on the earring and say, whoever is available, I would love to maybe have you come to the Slayer's Cake. Some of my family is here.
Travis: (gasps, running noises)
Ashley: Hold on! Watch your pockets, watch your stuff. Just keep an eye on your things. Yeah, just please come?
Laura: We've got you, darling.
Marisha: I bamf out of my Beast Shape. Whoa! What?
Ashley: Okay, I sent money. I didn't tell them where I was.
Marisha: You sent money?
Ashley: I did. I don't know, maybe I shouldn't have done it. I just wanted to make sure that they were okay. Maybe that wasn't a good idea.
Marisha: You've told us very vague amounts about your family.
Ashley: Because they're--
Marisha: It was surprising. You haven't talked about them too much, just that they're shady.
Ashley: I left when I was very young, so a lot of them I don't really know. Okay.
Marisha: You know, we love you, and family or not, if anyone tries to fucking use you, we will--
Ashley: Thank you. Okay. I don't think it'll come to that.
Marisha: All right. I just don't want anyone taking advantage of you.
Ashley: Right.
Matt: As you're having this conversation, (thudding sounds)
Travis: (shouting) Gnomes! (pants)
Ashley: Okay. Just get ready. Let's go to the Slayer's Cake.
Taliesin: I'm walking from the cemetery. However far that is.
Ashley: They alluded to the fact that they know who Vox Machina is, which I guess in this day and age, people know who we are. Which is weird. Okay, just be prepared, because it's not like I'm embarrassed of my family or anything, I just-- they're great! I just don't really know them.
Travis: You don't know them?
Ashley: Okay, Wilhand took me out of there when I was six, so it's been a while.
Marisha: Have you kept in contact with any of them until recently?
Ashley: Not really? JB, my cousin who you'll meet in a little bit, but not really. Not really at all.
Travis: Yeah, they never came by Wilhand's.
Ashley: No, they have so many things to do.
Travis: Busy. Important.
Ashley: Busy. But just hold onto your butts. Hold onto your things. They are sneaky. Sneaky-sneaky. They like to take things, and they're fast and small and that little sleight-of-hand didn't get passed down to me, but-- oh, I'm so uncomfortable right now!
Travis: Yeah, you're sweating a lot.
Marisha: Here. And I dab her brow off a little.
Ashley: Thanks.
Marisha: Do you need anything? Do you need anything to look cool?
Travis: Do you want some deodorant? You kind of smell.
Ashley: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay. I pull out my oils that I use on Vax. Here you go. You're good. Much better.
Laura: Have we caught up with them yet?
Matt: Yeah, they've been having this conversation with them just standing in the square not far from the Slayer's Cake.
Taliesin: That's never going to get old.
Matt: It'll never get old. Yeah, so you've caught up at this point. Percy, you've just started to see them in the distance.
Taliesin: Yeah. I'm excited.
Matt: Taryon, I don't know if you're--
Sam: I'm at the Slayer's Cake. I am making blondies.
Matt: Okay. So, while you guys are having this conversation, Taryon, you hear what sounds like ruckus, laughter, conversation, voices overlapping, getting louder and louder and then suddenly the front door to the Slayer's Cake, which has been quiet this afternoon, (thud). And then, (laughs) "Oh! This place is amazing! Do you smell that? You smell that, Uncle?" And you watch as the uncle comes in. (sniffs) "Smells like rocks."
Sam: Rocks?
Matt: "He lost his smell when he was very-- it was a terrible accident. Horse hoof in the face. Anyway, hi! We're family of Pike Trickfoot, and we were told to come here and try your wares! So this is a bakery?"
Sam: In Gnomish, welcome to the store. Any family of Pike Trickfoot is family of mine. I am one of her closest friends, Taryon Darrington. Here you go. Blondies on the house for everyone to celebrate your blondie, Pike Trickfoot.
Matt: "She wasn't always blonde, you know."
Sam: Oh, I don't know that at all. What?
Matt: Yeah. I guess she wanted a change of pace. She had dark hair when she was younger.
Sam: Really?
Matt: "Astra, free treats!" And they start grabbing and filling their pockets with blondies and eating them in between.
Sam: I've got more. Sure. You can take all you want. Everything in the store is yours.
Matt: You watch as JB walks up with long, dark hair, and goes, "Do you happen to have any water?"
Sam: Of course! Doty, go fetch some water for these fine gnomes.
Matt: "Tary." Grabs and gets a small bucket of water and sets it down. You watch as JB begins breaking up the pastry and dipping it in the water and then feeding it to the uncle.
Sam: Ugh.
Matt: Occasionally has to right his face, and it's getting caught in the beard a little bit.
Sam: You know, family is everything, and I'm so pleased to meet you. Can you tell me what she was like as a child?
Matt: "Well, (chuckles) she--" At that point, the door bursts open and the rest of you arrive there at the Slayer's Cake.
Travis: Yes!
Ashley: Oh, I see you got some blondies.
Matt: "We did. Your friend here--"
Sam: Taryon Darrington.
Matt: "Taryon Darrington, who apparently speaks Gnomish-- look at you, keeping your culture. Was nice enough to give us the run of the house!"
Sam: I told them they could have anything they wanted in the place, free of charge.
Ashley: I mean, just don't get sick by having too many pastries.
Matt: (chuckles) "Oh, my dear. That's not possible."
Ashley: This is-- guys? Everybody? This is my family. This is part of my family.
Matt: "Johann Trickfoot, random tasker, at your service." He bows. The woman with the curls says, "Astra Trickfoot. This here's my lumpy husband." Elbows him in the side. "And also at your service." And glances over and does a quick scan of everybody and falls on you and gives you a wink. JB, who is currently feeding the older uncle Ogden Trickfoot, goes, "I'm JB. I'm the cousin who grew up with her the most. She's my favorite." At which point, she's been so concentrated on this, she doesn't realize she's been mashing the food into the side of Ogden's cheek. (babbling) "I'm sorry." She wipes him down.
Liam: I'm sorry. What brings you fine folk into town? Are you just visiting Pike here?
Matt: Astra goes, "Well, we travel a lot and we've heard of exploits in various towns all around. I just have not had the chance to meet Pike after all the stories I've heard, and Johann speaks of her often, and JB is pretty much obsessed with your exploits." JB's over there. "I've been keeping tabs." "So we were surprised that we were located by a courier who gave us your letter and your absolutely unnecessary but very appreciated donation to the family, and we thought it would be nice and right of us to come and thank you in person."
Ashley: Well, I'm so glad you did. How in the world did you find out that I was here?
Matt: Johann and Astra turn their heads to JB, and JB goes, "Well, I'm keeping tabs on what you've been doing. There had been word that you not only helped with the reconstruction of Emon, but you've also been traveling to and from Whitestone since the Conclave attacked the continent, so we narrowed it down between a few possibilities, and based on the fact that you, Percival-- this is your city, is that correct? We figured that given that basis, we had a good chance. We passed through Westruun and could not find you. Wilhand, however, did say that you're doing well, and we eventually made our way east, and here we are. It's good to see you."
Ashley: It's good to see you.
Travis: Do me next. What have I done?
Matt: "You're Grog Strongjaw. Yes. You're the one that apparently replaced me."
Ashley: Well--
Travis: Huh?
Matt: "You grew up together once we were not, and you're a strong half-giant of a man. The beard confuses me, but you've done many great things, I suppose. The rest of you, it is an honor to meet you. I've heard so much, and it's rare you get to meet heroes in your lifetime." (shouting) "What? I'm still hungry!"
Travis: They're so nice. I feel terrible.
Ashley: Are you guys just passing through? Where's your next destination?
Matt: Johann pops up and goes, "We're always passing through, my dear, but we figured we'd just stay for a few days. However long it takes to get to know you a little better, and then we'll be on our way."
Marisha: Did he say weeks? Did he slip that in?
Matt: "We could stay weeks, if you'd like!"
Laura: Well, you know, days might be more--
Travis: As long as you need.
Matt: "We've been traveling. We're very tired."
Travis: Pike's family is our family, really.
Sam: Agreed.
Liam: I just want to get a vibe on them. I want to do an insight check and see what I think of them.
Marisha: Can I assist him on that?
Matt: Insight you can't-- you have to make an individual insight check.
Marisha: Individuals?
Liam: Oh, jeebus. Crap. 13.
Marisha: 26.
Matt: Okay. They're hard to read, in general. They're strange. They're interesting. They're unique. But they seem to be jovial and full of personality. You get a very familiar vibe as you did with Dr. Dranzel's troupe.
Travis: Could I request one thing? Could I have a hug?
Matt: From?
Travis: Yeah, all of you at once!
Sam: A bunch of kittens on a man.
Matt: They look at each other. Johann, and then Astra rushes in. They both give you a hug, and then Astra goes, "Uncle Ogden!" She grabs Ogden and (yelps) comes over and, "I'm confused." He's being held against you, really, and you watch as JB approaches and pats you.
Travis: It's okay.
Ashley: JB? Can I talk to you for just a minute?
Matt: "Of course."
Ashley: Just step outside on the outdoor bench.
Matt: She follows you out there. "You look so pretty."
Ashley: Oh, thank you.
Matt: "You've done so many good things. I've heard so many good things. It's so good to see you."
Ashley: It's very good to see you. How have you been?
Matt: "Well, I've been watching Ogden. Traveling and seeing the sights of the countrysides of Tal'Dorei. It's life on the road."
Ashley: I know. I understand that. How are my parents?
Matt: She looks around and goes, "Well, we haven't heard from your immediate side of the family since your bastard father left for Wynandia across the sea. Good riddance. No offense."
Ashley: No. None taken.
Matt: "That was a long time ago. I was young. But no, seriously. You're not missing much with them."
Ashley: Can I insight check her?
Matt: Go for it.
Ashley: Oh no. 13?
Matt: 13? She seems guarded and hard to read, but legit.
Ashley: Okay. Well. Have you guys, in your travels-- you know who Scanlan Shorthalt is, I'm sure?
Matt: She lights up and goes, "Yes, I've heard of him. Is he around?"
Ashley: He's not around.
Matt: "Oh. Okay, but I've heard of him. I've heard of his exploits. (chuckles) As I've asked around, he's left quite a trail of ladies through the years."
Ashley: He definitely has.
Matt: "They have a lot to say about him."
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: "Bit of a scoundrel, that one."
Ashley: Such a scoundrel.
Laura: God, she's so weird. (laughter)
Laura: It makes me so uncomfortable.
Ashley: All right, well, let's go back inside.
Matt: "Of course. I'm glad we had this bonding time."
Ashley: Me, too.
Matt: "You want to come, right?" She grabs your arms and tugs a little bit. You get a very faint sense of mild arrested development that makes you a little uncomfortable.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: She walks inside with you with her arm on your shoulder, and as you come back inside, the hug seems to have pulled away from Grog for a second, but the laughter is billowing from the room, and Johann, at this point, is mid-story to Grog. "And that's the craziest thing! She was so small, but could yet poop so much."
Travis: I love it!
Matt: "It's incredible!"
Travis: That's my favorite kind of people. Big pooper!
Matt: "If we could have painted a picture, you wouldn't know where she put it away! But that's another story."
Ashley: Oh, well, we don't need to keep saying these things. You know, if you guys would like to stay just for a few days, because we're going to be leaving.
Travis: No, we're not. We're here for a long time.
Ashley: We have a lot of stuff to do.
Laura: Trip coming up.
Matt: "Of course! Days. Weeks was invited here, of course, but--"
Laura: She doesn't actually live here.
Marisha: I'm a guest, foreigner, just like you. Passing through. Traveling on.
Ashley: I think we have a thing that we have to go fight, and we have so many things that we have to do.
Travis: We just got done fighting all the things. We're settling here.
Laura: (groans)
Ashley: We have some things planned.
Matt: Astra steps forward and takes your hand and she goes, "It's all right, dear. We're not going to stay longer to make it uncomfortable. I'm sorry about these folks."
Ashley: No, no.
Matt: "I married into the Trickfoots. I'm not bound to the same ridiculousness as these guys, so don't worry."
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Can I insight check that?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: I don't trust your "married in this bullshit" shit. 20, total.
Matt: 20 total?
Taliesin: Yeah!
Laura: I bet she's at the helm!
Taliesin: Happy new year, everybody.
Laura: I don't like her winking at Percy!
Taliesin: While we're whispering about things--
Sam: We have a great new shirt in the store. It says Vox Machina.
Laura: (silly accent) If you could get a close-up, you would see all of the Vox Machina's made of a different weapon that Vox Machina uses.
Taliesin: That was amazing.
Ashley: Well, why don't you guys stay in my place, and I'll take care of you guys while you're here? Just explore the town, and when we're getting ready to go, I'll let you know, and you guys can go on your merry way.
Matt: "That sounds fantastic."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: "It's so happy to have the Trickfoots together again."
Ashley: It's just so great.
Matt: "So where are we all staying?"
Ashley: Well, you can stay at my place.
Matt: "Fantastic! Wondrous. Show us along! We have things to unload."
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Do you want to grab any of the last bit of pastries for the day? Obviously, free treats today.
Sam: Oh, but don't fill up, because I assume we're all going to have dinner tonight together, right?
All: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah, let's have dinner.
Matt: "Wonderful. I love it. I love it!"
Laura: Free treats today! Just today. Just today, free treats for the family. After that, no free treats.
Matt: As you're saying this, Uncle Ogden has stepped forward again and JB is like, "Uncle Ogden?" He (grunts) and reaches out and finds the edge of your cheek and chin and he drops his cane, pulls his glasses off, and you see these tiny, dark beady eyes between the wrinkles and he goes, "Pike."
Ashley: Hi.
Matt: "It's so good to see you."
Ashley: It's so good to see you.
Matt: "Thank you. You're a good one." He puts his glasses back on and reaches out, and JB picks up a stick and hands it to him. He's like, "Thank you."
Ashley: Thank you, Uncle Ogden.
Laura: Does it look like he really needs that cane?
Matt: You want to make an insight check? (laughter)
Matt: Sure, go for it.
Travis: Kick the cane out, see what happens. Do you need this? Boom!
Laura: I think it looks like he really needs it.
Matt: You genuinely feel bad for even having that second thought. (laughter)
Laura: I do. I feel really terrible.
Sam: In my broken Gnome, I tell him  it's an honor to mate you. (laughter)
Matt: His head spins for a second. He smiles, and in Gnomish back to you, he says, "Oh. It's been a while."
Sam: I love him.
Ashley: Well, should we get some dinner? Are you guys hungry, or have you filled up on pastries?
Matt: "Oh!" You watch as Johann spits out the pastry. "Always hungry!"
Ashley: Okay, great. Well, let's have a delicious dinner.
Marisha: We could always go hunting for our dinner. Classic way.
Laura: That's how we do it in Whitestone. You have to hunt if you want to eat. That's how we do it here.
Matt: "Is that how you got your pastries?"
Laura: Well, hunting for any kind of meat. Pastries you pay for.
Ashley: For the meat pies.
Matt: "Well, we're not hunters, so I guess we'll stay here until you finish hunting. You know we're not hunters. We've never been hunters. Trickfoots don't hunt."
Ashley: We can-- (sighs).
Sam: Let's go freshen up for dinner.
Ashley: We'll go freshen up for dinner.
Matt: "Not a bad idea. I could use a bath, actually. How about you, Astra?" Astra's like, "Oh, I'd love a bath right now. I've been on the road for so long." And JB goes, "Uncle could really use a bath."
Ashley: Uncle could use a bath, I know.
Travis: He could. He smells like cheese.
Ashley: All right. I'll walk you guys. Let's walk to my place.
Matt: "Very well. Show us along!"
Laura: I want to whisper to you as we walk back to the house: don't give them any more free things, all right?
Sam: What? I thought they were Pike's people.
Laura: Yeah, they're great. They're wonderful, but no more free stuff. Just today, but no more after that.
Sam: Okay. Of course. I'm sorry if I was out of line.
Laura: Of course not. You're so generous.
Sam: I love you.
Laura: I love you so much.
Liam: I'm hooking Kiki by the arm. Hey, you've got that look in your eye.
Marisha: I just don't like it when people try to take advantage of my friends, but they're family, and if anyone is in need, I don't want to potentially put them out.
Liam: But you think they're a little bit hinky? That's a yes.
Marisha: We can just keep an eye out. I'm protective.
Taliesin: Pike, if you need anything, just let me know. And I completely understand the awkward position you're currently being put in.
Ashley: Oh god, it's so awkward! I just don't know. Thank you, Percy. I'll let you know if there's anything that I need.
Taliesin: Keep an eye on the odd one.
Ashley: Which one? Because they're all odd.
Taliesin: JB. She reminds me of me at that age. That's not a good thing.
Marisha: I say to Vax  Just keep an eye on the odd one, all right?
Taliesin: See if you notice an interest.
Travis: Pike, are there any more coming?
Taliesin: If you notice an interest in that one, please let me know. Maybe I could figure out what she's interested in and show her around, maybe.
Ashley: Okay. That's a great idea. So this is all of you, then, that came? You guys have been traveling around, just yourselves?
Travis: Got any more of you coming?
Matt: "Not coming with us. The Trickfoots tend to scatter on their own."
Travis: Like bunnies.
Matt: "Yeah, sure. We'll go with that one. Yeah, not everyone can be trusted in the family."
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: "It's frustrating. The people that you care for and spend your life hitting behind betray that trust, and good riddance to them."
Ashley: Oh. Well, is there anything you would like to see while you're here?
Matt: They all look back at JB, who lights up again and goes, "Everything."
Ashley: Okay. Well, is there anyone in particular you would like to give you a tour?
Matt: JB is like, "Well, I--" And Johann goes, "I feel like if we don't choose him, we're going to get squashed." (laughter)
Matt: You can see a moment of heartbreak and JB goes, "Very well."
Travis: Yes!
Matt: "Mr. Strongjaw, you may show us around."
Travis: Yeah. You won't regret that choice.
Ashley: All right, come with me. You can come to my place, freshen up before dinner, and we'll have a great time.
Matt: "Great! Great. Now, to the baths. How big are your baths? Are they huge? Are they human-sized baths? Are they bigger than human-sized baths?"
Liam: Not quite big enough. (laughter)
Laura: You don't know.
Matt: "You!" All right, so you show them up to the castle, which I assume is where you're letting them stay.
Laura: They're staying in the castle?
Taliesin: The guards have generally been alerted to be wary, kind, polite, and less important that they stop them from doing anything too terrible, more to the point that they just write it down and report it immediately. (laughter)
Taliesin: Unless anyone's doing something terrible, or going somewhere they really shouldn't.
Matt: Right. Okay. That information is easily distributed throughout the Pale Guard, without issue.
Liam: "I guess that silverware wasn't so important."
Taliesin: Oh, we're bringing out the moderate silverware.
Ashley: That's a good idea. That's a great idea.
Laura: All the good silver is hidden. Hidden up high.
Matt: Because there are only within the castle at any given time, four baths. Four rooms that contain full baths. Occasionally, you have to wait for a person, but they immediately scatter. Three of them are taken.
Ashley: Okay. We might have to wait a little bit.
Matt: You wait a while. Eventually, they one by one start making their way down to the main banquet hall of the castle. Cleaned up. You watch as Johann comes down, wearing his same clothing that appears to have been cleaned. "Wow! I'm appreciative that you have servants here that can do such a nice job with such fine family threads." His mustache is done perfectly. His hair is still slick and wet from the bath, combed over. "Well, thank you. It's in the blood."
Ashley: (chuckles) It sure is.
Matt: He turns around. "Astra? What's taking her so long?" Walks back out to the stairway and rushes past the guards, his little gnomish head dodging by their knees, almost. He goes, (shouting) "Astra!" You hear a voice go, (shouting) "I'm almost done! Wait and be patient!" He goes back. "She'll be down in a moment. Don't worry. In the meantime, is there an appetizer course?"
Ashley: Sure. Why don't you take a seat, and order whatever you want, on me.
Matt: "You're so generous!" He pinches your cheek. He waltzes over to the table, sits down and grabs the fork and knife. "Two bottles of red, and... ooh, what vintage have you?" He begins talking with the servants about what various wines are available.
Laura: I'm just going to pop into the kitchen.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And tell the staff in the kitchen obviously, you can make whatever you want. I'm just hoping maybe you don't make it too tasty tonight. Nothing too extravagant. You know, nice, but average. Right?
Matt: The servants that are there, the whole waitstaff and kitchen staff go, "Of course, milady."
Laura: Nothing great.
Matt: "A curious request, but one we will fulfill to our greatest ability."
Laura: Thank you so much. Lots of salad, lots of very dry, hard meat. Turnips. Lots of turnips.
Taliesin: Heavy food.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: I'm going to pop into the kitchen after she's done. (laughter)
Sam: All right, family's here tonight, so everything has to be on its best, all right? The best stuff we have in this kitchen. These are Trickfoots. We have to treat them right, and we have to treat them well.
Matt: The staff stops and goes, "Friend Taryon, I'm sorry, but the lady requested specifically that the meal not be--"
Sam: What lady?
Matt: "Lady Vex'ahlia."
Sam: She was being polite. These are good people. They need to be treated--
Matt: Make a persuasion check. You're asking them to override the word of the lady of the house. SAM One. (laughter)
Matt: He goes, "I am sorry, but--"
Sam: Who's your manager?
Matt: "The lady you're speaking about."
Sam: Oh, you're right. She is your manager.
Liam: Tary, you have Luck!
Taliesin: Back to the pool house with you.
Sam: I do have Luck.
Laura: (groans) No!
Sam: What am I doing?
Matt: Persuasion.
Laura: No.
Sam: That's 24.
Taliesin: Oh!
Matt: He goes, "But if you say it's the word of Lady Vex'ahlia--"
Sam: These are Trickfoots, man. Trickfoots! Treat them as you would your own mother.
Matt: "I'm so confused. We'll do our best. Holy shit." You see this internal struggle. "Everyone! Fine meat's back on the menu. Sorry." And the staff goes, (groans) and starts throwing shit out that they were halfway working on and starting from scratch.
Sam: I go out and grab Vex. Little EG, what are you doing? You told them to give them bad food tonight? These are Trickfoots! We have to treat them with honor and respect.
Laura: Tary! Ugh.
Taliesin: You said what?
Laura: Okay, look. All right. If your father came, and you dislike him very much, right?
Sam: I would give him the best.
Laura: Oh shit. Okay, bad comparison. These people suck. They're mean--
Sam: What are you talking about? They've been nothing but nice. They've showered her with kisses and affection. It's affection that I've never even seen in a family before!
Laura: Tary, dear. Darling. They don't treat her very well, and they'll use her, and they'll stay here and keep taking advantage of her, and we don't want that.
Sam: But I get to practice my Gnome.
Laura: Well, that's true. You can practice as much as you want over the next couple of days, but we don't want to impress them. The more they like it, the longer they'll stay.
Taliesin: They'll figure out that the poor food-- I feel like they're clever enough for that one. Best to feed them well, at least.
Laura: Really?
Taliesin: I know.
Sam: I'll back off.
Laura: Thank you.
Taliesin: Continue to be charming.
Sam: Always.
Travis: I walk into the kitchen. I go, okay. Listen up! I need peanut butter, I need turkey legs, eggs, cheese. (laughter)
Sam: "Those are all the foods I know."
Travis: Chop chop!
Matt: The servants all stop and go, (sighs). "Yes, Grand Poobah." (laughter)
Matt: Throw out what they were finishing and begin to make eggs, getting the cheese ready, and all the hearty pork meats. And the peanut butter.
Marisha: It's a Charlie Brown Thanksgiving.
Laura: Spaghetti-Os.
Marisha: Popcorn.
Ashley: Just great. I run over to Percy really quickly. (whispering) Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Ashley: I just wanted to... apologize in advance for whatever may happen in the next few days.
Taliesin: I'm so excited for the calamity that's about to be brought down upon my house.
Ashley: Okay.
Taliesin: There is nothing, short of full dragon apocalypse at this point, that could faze us. We can live through this. We'll be fine.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: I come up and I give her a hug from behind and say: We will never judge you for your blood, dear.
Ashley: Okay. Again, I'm not embarrassed.
Laura: Of course not. They're great. They seem wonderful.
Ashley: Yeah. Yeah, they do.
Taliesin: To be fair, I've also already started drinking.
Ashley: Oh great. Okay, I'll join you.
Taliesin: I pull out the flask of Courage that I've brought.
Sam: Flask of Courage?
Laura: You got more Courage?
Taliesin: Oh, there's a lot of Courage. We make it every year.
Ashley: I take a big gulp. All the gulps.
Matt: It burns. It burns so good.
Ashley: (grunts)
Taliesin: It burns a lot.
Ashley: It does.
Taliesin: You're going to get drunk, but you're not going to get sleepy.
Laura: Oh, that's going to feel good in this area.
Travis: You won't get sleepy.
Taliesin: Let's do this.
Ashley: Let's go eat.
Matt: As you guys all find yourselves ready, the Trickfoots also begin to fill in to the banquet hall. The servants provide a fantastic spread of heartily cooked pork meats, peanut butter fresh from the jar, piles of cheeses.
Laura: I thought you asked--
Sam: This is not what I asked for.
Ashley: This is comfort food in Whitestone.
Taliesin: We thought we would give you the cornucopia of our experience.
Laura: I take a big spoon of peanut butter.
Matt: Johann gives a curious eye and goes, "Well, who are we to scoff at the cultures of others? Let's dig in, everyone!" And immediately he goes in. Astra begins eating, as well. JB takes a bite and then prepares a bite for Uncle Ogden, who is in the process of staring at the table strangely. Eventually the spoon finds its way there.
Taliesin: Well, that's the next 30 minutes.
Matt: As this is happening, Johann begins asking questions. "So! This is your castle?"
Ashley: Is this my castle?
Matt: JB is like, "No, it's not her castle. It's his castle. She's just staying here, for now."
Taliesin: Technically, it's my sister's castle, but certainly.
Matt: At which point, Cassandra comes in from the back, arms crossed. She wanders in. "Brother?"
Taliesin: That's code. Yes?
Matt: "Everything all right, brother?"
Taliesin: Yes, fine.
Matt: "Very well, I'll be in my chambers if you require anything."
Laura: You're sure you don't want to join us, Cass?
Matt: "I'm fine. I'm a bit tired. It's been a long night. But whoever you are, welcome to Whitestone." She looks back to Percival.
Taliesin: The Trickfoot clan.
Matt: "Ah."
Marisha: And Keyleth goes-- ASHLEY If she looks over at me, I'm going--
Matt: "I would love to welcome you all to Whitestone. You are guests of ours if you are guests of hers. We'll talk later."
Taliesin: Absolutely.
Matt: She makes her way back up the stairs. You watch as Trish, who's her bodyguard on this shift, follows her up.
Laura: She's still here? Trish.
Ashley: Trish the Dish.
Travis: Trish the Dish.
Matt: She's one of two shift personal guards of Cassandra.
Ashley: I'm going to sit next to Ogden.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: JB, I can feed him for a little bit if you'd like to look around or something, or talk to anybody here? Who do you really want to talk to?
Matt: "You. We have so much to catch up on. It's been a long time."
Ashley: Is there someone in Vox Machina that you really love?
Matt: She looks around. There's this long, awkward pause as she keeps looking over Vox Machina again and again, but not making any eye contact with Grog, and eventually goes, "I suppose Lady Vex'ahlia." Hands the spoon over to you.
Ashley: Okay. Well, I'm sure she would love to talk to you. She's very inviting, very friendly.
Matt: "Should I just go sit?"
Ashley: Sure.
Matt: "Okay." She gets up from the table. Johann's still talking. He's telling stories. "We Trickfoots. For generations, we've been problem-solvers. We rove from place to place, solving problems across the countrysides. If you have a squeaky wheel, we fix the wheel. If you have a squeaky door, we fix the door."
Travis: Amazing.
Matt: "If you have a squeaky tax man, we fix the tax man. That's a joke! That's a joke. You can laugh. See, there you are."
Travis: They kill the tax man.
Sam: Everybody hates taxes.
Matt: As this conversation's happening, there's a small bowl of what looks to be some of the pork, but it's been soaked in some water or wine, and it's been mashed or pre-chewed. You're not quite sure. But you have the spoon there, and you have Uncle Ogden sitting there going--
Ashley: I start speaking to him in Underdark because I haven't spoken that in a while. Ogden? How are you liking traveling with everybody? With Johann and Astra and JB?
Matt: His ear perks up a little bit and he goes, "I haven't heard that talk in a long time." His head turns slightly towards you, but he's still looking off a little bit from under the glasses.
Sam: Is this Undercommon?
Ashley: Underdark.
Sam: Underdark?
Matt: It would be considered Undercommon.
Ashley: It's Undercommon? Okay.
Sam: I'm listening.
Laura: I'm reading their lips.
Matt: Do you understand Undercommon? Okay, then yeah. He looks back and goes, "It's been travel. They take care of me. We're here now." His hand reaches over and grabs your hand and holds it for a second. He goes, "We're here now to protect you."
Ashley: Protect me from what?
Matt: "From the curse."
Ashley: What do you mean?
Matt: "I've been having visions of you. An angel of light swallowed by dark."
Ashley: Okay. Are these just dreams?
Matt: "They come often, and the dreams that come often generally come to pass. There is a curse in our blood, and we wish to save you from that curse." His fingers tighten a little bit on your hand. Not in a painful way, but an emphatic hold. "I'm worried for you. You're the only good one." His hand releases your hand. He drools a little bit and wipes it with his hand. (laughter)
Ashley: I take a spoon of peanut butter. It's a little bit easier. Here you go.
Sam: Like Mr. Ed.
Ashley: Yep.
Matt: It dribbles out a little bit. "Unexpected."
Ashley: Sorry, the mix between the pork and peanut butter. It's an interesting mix, but it's Grog's favorite.
Matt: "It's good."
Ashley: It's a good mix!
Matt: You see him smiling now.
Ashley: Can you tell me about Astra? How did she come into the picture?
Matt: "Astra met Johann about ten years ago. He needed someone to nail him down. Spry, wily, prone to terrible choices. He's a stupid boy. Stupid, stupid boy." At which point, Johann, who's been talking, stops and goes, in Undercommon, "I can hear you, Dad. Anyway!" "She's good to him. If she breaks his heart, I'll kill her."
Ashley: There you go. And any word from my family? My mother, anything? It's been a long time since I talked to them.
Matt: "They absconded east and got in a little trouble."
Ashley: That makes sense.
Matt: "It's just like my brother to do that. He's the one who held the stupid gene on our generation."
Ashley: Yep.
Matt: "I'm tired now."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: At which point, JB, who's been over there talking with you and asking questions about the castle and what accommodations there are, sees Uncle Ogden get up. "Oh, Uncle, I'll help you. I'm so sorry, Lady Vex'ahlia." She stands up and walks around and grabs the elbow. "Uncle Ogden, are you tired?"
Ashley: I can have someone take him, if you'd like to stay?
Matt: "He's very fragile. If you'd trust anyone to take him?"
Laura: I can do it, dear.
Ashley: Well. Yeah. You would like to stay with him?
Matt: "It's what I'm used to, but if Lady Vex'ahlia--"
Laura: I would love to. I think your cousin wants to speak with you.
Ashley: Great.
Matt: At which point, as soon as you say that, she smiles brightly and goes, "Actually, yes."
Laura: Yes.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Be on your guard, dear.
Ashley: Okay, I will. Check your pockets.
Laura: Always.
Matt: She sits down next to you and begins asking about, "I can't believe that you stepped into the same ridiculousness that Wilhand did and it's brought you all this. We just thought he was an old coot."
Ashley: Well, he's all I've known and he's wonderful. He's my family, since I left, and I'm sorry I haven't really contacted you guys.
Matt: "It's all right. We make ourselves scarce on purpose."
Ashley: Yeah. Well, so you've been taking care of Ogden?
Matt: "We've been helping out, but mostly me, yeah."
Ashley: Has he told you anything that he dreams about?
Matt: You can see that she stiffens up a little bit. "So he's already told you."
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: "I don't want to ruin an evening that's going so well, but he's had visions. I'm worried about you. When we got your letter that-- we didn't know how to find you. We didn't think that you were in the area. When your letter found us, we thought maybe you weren't that far away, so we began to search our way along the Silver Cut."
Ashley: Okay. Can I insight check her again?
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Ashley: I can't figure out what's going on. Ugh, balls. Oh, wait. 16?
Matt: She's hard to read, in general. Even when she was a kid, she was an odd duck. She seems genuine.
Ashley: Okay. Well, how's everybody feeling? Are you tired? Are you full? Is it bedtime? What's going on?
Sam: I could talk to these people all night long.
Ashley: Well.
Sam: But if we should turn in?
Matt: You see Astra, who's been drinking deep of one of the two fine bottles of red wine, is drunkenly leaning with her arm around Johann's arm. He's a little tipsy, but he's still in conversation, talking to Grog. He's telling embarrassing story after embarrassing story, and since you're so eager and no one else really wants to pay him as much mind. He's talking to the table, but he's mainly focusing on you.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: As you begin helping Ogden, who, as you grab his arm, he's shaking, and he has his cane as he moves along. His skin is very loose.
Laura: Ogden, would you like me to help carry you, or are you all right to walk?
Matt: "I can walk under my own power."
Laura: Of course you can. Feel free to lean on me, though.
Matt: "At the stairs."
Laura: All right.
Matt: He's still looking off. As soon as you get to the stairs, he gets about two steps and has to stop and breathe, and another two stairs.
Laura: I put my arm down so he can put as much weight as he wants.
Matt: He leans into it and you eventually help him up the staircase that spirals up to the second floor and eventually lead him to his chambers.
Laura: All right, and I start talking to him on the way to his room in Undercommon. And ask him: How long have you guys been on the road?
Matt: "Always."
Laura: Always?
Matt: "By nature, we don't really put down roots." Big old smile as he says roots, darkened, some broken teeth. Heinous smell.
Laura: Peanut butter and pork.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: I couldn't help but overhear you talking to Pike about dreams you've been having.
Matt: "Yes. Dreams."
Laura: What kind of dreams?
Matt: "Terrible premonitions."
Laura: Like what?
Matt: At this point, he stops and looks up towards you as you're holding his arm, and he reaches up and pulls the glasses shakily from the front of his face and through his small dark brown beady eyes, you see the whites at the sides are bloodshot. He glances up and goes, "The kinds of dreams that end a bloodline."
Laura: Well, that sounds terrible.
Matt: "We're trying to find a way to stop it."
Laura: Well, that's good. I would like to stop it, as well. We all love Pike very much.
Matt: "Good. Then we came at the right time."
Laura: Can I insight check him?
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: That was almost. 21? 21.
Sam: Whispers!
Laura: Yes!
Sam: So, Taliesin, what's the V? What's the V on this shirt?
Taliesin: The V on this shirt?
Liam: It's a book.
Taliesin: That looks to be a tome of some sort.
Sam: Who is represented by a book?
Liam: The whole top row is reserved for Matthew.
Sam: Oh, okay. And what's the M in Machina?
Taliesin: It appears to be some sort of very naturalistic bow and arrow.
Sam: Who would that correspond to?
Taliesin: Scanlan, I imagine.
Sam: Oh, yeah. That makes sense. And the A?
Taliesin: The A appears to be a bird's mask and a pistol.
Sam: Also Scanlan.
Taliesin: Also Scanlan.
Sam: Yeah, sure. And the C?
Taliesin: The C is some sort of natural wooden crest of some kind.
Liam: That's Grog taint.
Sam: Oh.
Taliesin: In fact, this is entirely Grog and Scanlan, which I think, it's about time.
Laura: Well, Ogden. Are you all right getting into your bed? Do you need any help with that?
Matt: "If you can get me to the edge of it, I can manage."
Laura: Well, of course. I hope you know that we're here for you, with whatever you need, as long as we're all here to help Pike. We love her like family, as well.
Matt: "Good. She can use some family."
Laura: Yes. Dark tidings.
Matt: "Dark tidings, indeed."
Laura: Are we talking like falling into a pit or are we talking like-- I'm going to walk him to the bed and maybe like--
Matt: (raspy grunt) He gets up and leans the stick off to the side, and it (thudding noise) onto the ground.
Laura: I'll crouch down and start untying his little boots.
Matt: "That's all right. I can get that."
Laura: I don't mind.
Matt: He leans back and lets you do it.
Laura: What kind of dark things are we talking?
Matt: "There's a legend in the Trickfoots. Every generation, one is born with the blood curse. One that carries with it the anger of someone slighted when we first became Trickfoots. Maybe it's superstition, but every one of these individuals died a horrible, painful death, screaming of a shadow that came for them. It's a myth, I know, but these dreams are real, and I'd rather be careful and wrong than careless and right."
Laura: Do you see the shadow in your dreams?
Matt: "Shapeless. Dark. Eyes like burning coals."
Laura: Does that sound like the smoke demon that we saw come out of Percy? Anything like that?
Matt: Shapeless, black shadow with red eyes sounds similar, but Orthax was generally black smoke. Had form, and the eyes were more of a yellow.
Taliesin: The John Doe of demons, really.
Laura: All right. How long have you been having these dreams?
Matt: "Months."
Laura: Have you ever witnessed it happen before? Have you had the dreams about anyone else?
Matt: "Only once. I was very young."
Laura: And they died.
Matt: "My brother."
Laura: Really?
Matt: Theobold.
Laura: And do you know who it is the Trickfoots slighted in this myth?
Matt: "I don't know. This whole family is paranoid and guards their secrets from each other. Anyway."
Laura: I wish you a dreamless sleep. And he's out. (laughter)
Liam: Random question. Do we see an obvious family resemblance with Pike and any of them?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: They all have a giant birthmark on their face. (laughter)
Liam: 24.
Matt: As you've been paying attention to them most of dinner. Mannerisms, everything. There are some similarities.
Liam: Facial features, I mean.
Matt: Yeah. They're not direct family. They're cousins, uncle-- they're once removed from her central nuclear family. But you do see similarities in cheekbone structure, at least with Johann, Ogden, and JB. Moreso with JB. It's hard with the mustache with Johann. But there are some similarities between JB and Pike, and you can't help but envision these two cute little gnome children playing together. These two dark-haired female gnomes running around, and there may have been an age when they could have been hard to tell apart from each other.
Laura: Ooh.
Sam: Swapped at birth?
Laura: I know, right?
Marisha: Freaky Friday!
Ashley: Oh man. Okay.
Matt: As Johann picks up Astra. "Anyway, it's been a fantastic meal. I appreciate your hospitality, and I look forward to this grand tour you promised tomorrow."
Travis: Oh, yeah. Anything you want to see, as long as you've got more of those stories.
Matt: "Oh, I've got loads."
Taliesin: I'm going to sneak next to JB really quickly.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: If you want a more proper and private tour of the city, consider the offer open. Just think about where you'd want to start. The offer does stand, though. Have a good evening.
Matt: As you say this to her, she glances back and says, "Very well. Under the needs of being upfront, as well, I want you to know that I'm not interested." (laughter)
Travis: Thank you. That's what it totally sounded like.
Laura: It did sound like you were fucking flirting.
Travis: You want a proper tour of deez nuts? (laughter)
Taliesin: I don't think he's figured out what she's talking about.
Matt: I don't think he has, either, no.
Taliesin: Oh. I'm sorry, I thought that maybe you'd want to see the-- and the-- oh. Very well, then.
Matt: She looks over at Grog and goes, "Perhaps a tour is in order, but just no. I'm not interested."
Taliesin: In the tour?
Matt: "In the tour, yes."
Taliesin: Oh! Yeah. I mean, no. Yes. No. (laughter)
Liam: Smooth as butter.
Matt: She gets up and walks away. "Good night, everyone. Good night, Pike."
Taliesin: How did she do that?
Matt: Eventually, all the gnomes have left and you're all there, dumbfounded, at the dinner table.
Laura: I come back down.
Ashley: Check your pockets! Check your pockets.
Laura: I had no valuables on me at all.
Sam: I have everything that I own on me. Am I missing anything?
Laura: I check my hair to make sure my brooch is still in it.
Marisha: I check my pouch and make sure my antlers are still there.
Matt: You guys scan through, pat yourselves down. Everything's in place.
Sam: I think they're lovely.
Marisha: And I liked seeing you being bested. Regardless of the people, it's still fun seeing you being bested.
Taliesin: Cheap shot, at best.
Liam: You are very different from them.
Ashley: Yes.
Liam: They are quirky.
Laura: I mean, you're quirky.
Ashley: Yeah, but I mean, I haven't seen them in a very long time. Since I was but a kid.
Liam: Why did Pom-Pom take you out of there?
Ashley: Well, because he was different and had a different life plan and because he became a cleric and was the first of-- I don't know how far back. I don't even know.
Liam: And older than all of them.
Ashley: Yeah. And he saw that I was and decided-- we left. He took me when I was little, and we left. There was a lot that happened, but I didn't know where they were because they travel.
Liam: They just got here, but what's your feel on this?
Ashley: I don't know. I heard some things with some discussions I had tonight, and I need to figure out if they're true or not. We'll figure out in the next few days, just to see what's going on.
Sam: This dream that the old one talked about, does that worry you?
Ashley: How do you know about that?
Liam: You don't know that.
Laura: He does. He was listening in.
Liam: Oh, that's right.
Laura: I actually talked to him a little bit about that, as well.
Ashley: You did?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: A dream? What dream?
Ashley: What did he say?
Laura: He said that there was a thing in your family. A blood curse. He seemed honest enough when he was saying it. Said that people paid the price for a slight someone made a long time ago, and certain members of your family are cursed, and he's had these premonitions, these dreams, before. It was his brother who passed away a long time ago.
Ashley: Yes, this is a thing.
Laura: Have you heard about this?
Matt: You haven't because you haven't been with most of the Trickfoots for most of your life.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: You've been with Wilhand since you were very young. You said six. He's not been eager to talk about the family. You can see he resents the Trickfoot clan, so you haven't heard of this, but you also know very little about them.
Laura: Wilhand never discussed it with you?
Marisha: No premonitions of a curse from Wilhand?
Ashley: He didn't talk about the family. He wanted to be separate from them and he didn't want me to be influenced by them at all.
Marisha: Hang on. I don't mean to question everything, but Wilhand defected from the whole family and became a cleric, but he never mentioned anything of a curse? Why did he become a cleric?
Taliesin: I see your reasoning.
Marisha: That seems like a dichotomy there.
Taliesin: It actually makes perfect sense to me.
Travis: He likes helping people.
Marisha: Or he's terrified of some superstitious curse. Maybe both?
Ashley: Maybe both.
Liam: We trust you, and Wilhand raised you, so Wilhand must have his head screwed on straight.
Taliesin: I'm going to say you're in a room of people who were raised by-- at least 60 percent of the time, ridiculous people who have their head screwed on straight.
Marisha: That's accurate.
Laura: Maybe we should ask him about it?
Liam: That's where I was going. Is there any merit in trying to get a hold of Wilhand right now, while they're here?
Ashley: Can we, from here?
Matt: He's in Westruun right now. It is also late in the evening.
Marisha: I can get us anywhere very quickly.
Sam: Tomorrow we should go visit him?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah. I don't think they're going to burn down the castle.
Laura: Maybe while they're taking a tour, we bamf to Westruun for just a minute.
Taliesin: I don't necessarily know if-- do you want to bamf, or do you just want to talk? We can probably just talk to him, or maybe we could have him sent for.
Liam: Do you remember our conversations with Wilhand when we were in Westruun?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Liam: They were a little squirrely.
Taliesin: I'm a little worried about leaving them here unattended.
Laura: Some of us can stay.
Marisha: I think it would be a half-and-half situation.
Laura: Split the party!
All: Split the party!
Ashley: We could. As you guys know, Wilhand is a little-- he's in his older years.
Laura: We'll try to keep it quick.
Ashley: But we could try to keep it quick.
Laura: In and out, ask him a few questions.
Marisha: And Wilhand is the brother of Ogden?
Laura: No.
Liam: No, he's older than that.
Matt: Yeah, Wilhand is older than Ogden.
Marisha: Wilhand's older than Ogden?!
Ashley: Wilhand's older than Ogden.
Marisha: I thought Ogden was as old as life itself!
Travis: No, Ogden did a lot of drugs when he was younger.
Laura: Ogden's had a hard life.
Sam: He's got to be at least 150 or 200 years old.
Matt: Ogden looks like he's older, but his physicality is not based on age as much as it's based on--
Marisha: He had a Mick Jagger lifestyle.
Matt: Something akin to that, I guess you'd say.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: Or at least a Tom Waits one.
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: Let's circle back tomorrow.
Marisha: All right.
Ashley: And while they're doing the tour, maybe we can pop over real quick and I think that would be better than him seeing them here.
Liam: Even as an outsider, that seems a little ugh.
Ashley: Yeah.
Taliesin: Grog, you'll take the loud ones tomorrow and I'll take the quiet ones?
Travis: Wait, what? I thought I get them all.
Taliesin: Do you want to get them all?
Travis: Yeah, don't they want all to be on my tour?
Laura: Maybe you could do the tour together?
Marisha: Maybe you could do a Grog tour and then a Percy tour.
Liam: Or you could assist Grog.
Taliesin: Because you asked so nicely. Also, I was thinking the carpet might be a fine way of moving them around the city.
Laura: Oh! That is actually a wonderful idea.
Ashley: They would be pretty fascinated by that.
Laura: Quite distracted.
Liam: You know, the Grand Poobah needs an assistant.
Travis: Oh. Perhaps.
Liam: It's only befitting of your station that Percival aid you in such a fashion.
Travis: Yes. Quite.
Marisha: The two masters of the city. Of course.
Travis: My history of the city is unrivaled.
Taliesin: I will definitely agree that there are sections of this city I would absolutely agree that you are the master of, at this point.
Travis: Thank you. (laughter)
Taliesin: (sighs) It's going to be a lot of brothels and bars.
Marisha: "And this was my first hook-up, and this was the scene of my second hook-up."
Travis: Yeah. This is a big tree.
Matt: I'm excited for this.
Taliesin: I am so excited for this.
Matt: So, as you all eventually find yourselves resting for the evening, contemplating the plans to take first thing in the morning, we'll go ahead and close tonight's episode there. We'll pick this up next week.
Laura: Wait, you're not going to be here next week?
Ashley: I will. I'll just be a little late.
Marisha: Sprinting from the airport.
Ashley: Yeah.
Laura: Cool.
Taliesin: We'll do the tour first, while you guys are off freaking out with the--
Marisha: Bamfing?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: We'll stall if we need to. We'll make it happen. All righty, guys. Well, thank you so much for watching tonight. I hope you enjoyed it as much as we did.
Marisha: We're all a year older now!
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Marisha: We're older!
Travis: Grog is 14.
Matt: We'll be back here next Thursday, 7PM Pacific, as usual. Until then, have a wonderful weekend and is it Thursday yet? Good night, guys.
Marisha: Go buy t-shirts! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. First and foremost, we are super excited that we actually have in the flesh here with us tonight the wonderful Ashley Johnson! (cheering)
Ashley: So glad.
Matt: We missed you so much.
Ashley: I missed you. Everybody.
Liam: You are not allowed to go.
Laura: Yeah, we're going to put her in a locked room.
Ashley: I'd be okay with it.
Liam: You'll eat your rice and play Dungeons and Dragons.
Matt: I'm glad you could join us here for this. All right, so next up I believe, Laura, we have some new merch? Apparently, which I forgot about until you showed me before the show.
Laura: I was just showing this off before the stream. We have this amazing Matthew Mercer shirt. (cheering)
Laura: It's kind of wrinkly because I was sitting on it but...
Matt: I have a shirt.
Laura: So hey, that's in the store. That's in the store right now.
Travis: It's got the logo on the back too.
Ashley: You have a t-shirt.
Laura: And it's subtle, I like that anybody that doesn't know what it is would just think it's a cool silhouette shirt. And then anybody that does know what it is, it's like they're "in."
Travis: Is that the kind DM shirt, or is that the evil sarcastic--
Laura: He's smirking evilly. It's an evil smirk.
Liam: You know the meme, when the dungeon master smiles, it's too late.
Matt: Exactly. I really like it. I think it's inspired reminiscent of another project I work on. And it makes me happy.
Laura: That's what inspired us to do it.
Liam: By the time he's smiling, you're already getting choked out.
Matt: Good times. Next up, just a reminder, we have the Critical Role Vox Machina Origins comic book available on Comixology, on Dark Horse. Apparently, where it is at now?
Liam: It's the second highest rated comic book on Comixology at the moment.
Laura: Because Critters are awesome.
Taliesin: Sitting at nine on the current bestseller list.
Laura: Of all time?
Sam: Of all time.
Liam: On Comixology.
Marisha: We have the best fans.
Travis: Yeah, pretty much.
Taliesin: It's a good book!
Marisha: It's so good.
Matt: Next one is coming soon.
Liam: We saw it.
Matt: Excited for you guys.
Taliesin: It's got so much.
Matt: We'll have information soon on when the next comic comes out next month. Don't forget we have Talks Machina next Tuesday to discuss this episode. Next Tuesday at 7:00pm Pacific with our fantastic host Brian Foster to discuss Travis' third testicle.
Taliesin: Oh, they found out about that.
Matt: Yeah. It's on the list here. Also, don't forget it's the last week of September so if you haven't had a chance yet and you always wanted to go ahead and join the Geek and Sundry Twitch community and subscribe, or any other Twitch community that you've been waiting for, they're half off this month. So now's the time to jump in. Laura and Travis, you're going to be at a convention in Atlanta this weekend.
Laura: Why yes, we leave tomorrow morning actually.
Travis: Bright and early, Anime Weekend Atlanta. We're there Friday, Saturday, Sunday, come down, see us and throw things in our face. That'd be great.
Laura: And we're also going to be in Australia in a couple weeks, or this November.
Sam: Ashley, what's going on with you? Anything to plug? Any other projects that you're working on?
Laura: Are you working on any kind of shows or anything?
Marisha: Yeah, it seems like you've been so busy.
Ashley: I just didn't want to come. I've just got other things to do. Shop online. I'm just busy, guys. Looking at Cute Emergency on Twitter, there's just so many more important things to do than this. Just kidding, that's not true.
Marisha: You do retweet Cute Emergency quite a lot.
Taliesin: You're how I found Cute Emergency.
Ashley: Oh really? That makes me so glad. We love aminals.
Matt: All righty. Well then, without further ado. Let's go ahead and dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Liam: --me, daddy.
Matt: Little late on the draw there, bud.
Marisha: Like, unfashionably late.
Liam: What an accident that was. Oh no!
Matt: Welcome back. So last we left off, Vox Machina had made their way through the innards of the undead risen primordial earth titan. On its shoulders was held the long-abandoned until recently city of Thar Amphala, from the Shadowfell. A city that once held the armies of Vecna, the Undying King who has since risen once more, and achieved godhood in recent days. You traversed to this titan, through its innards up into the city of Thar Amphala; which you notice the outer wall currently manages to maintain an arcane dome that holds at bay any of the outward assailing forces of the wyvern riders or Devo'ssa, the brass dragon. Where the inside of it contains, in wait, a cloud of various gloomstalkers and a skeletal dragon that just peruse the city in safety as you make your way through the streets in search of the recently reassembled and standing tower of Entropis. Now upon seeking a sword that you were notified had historical binds to the hatred of Vecna and hopefully his downfall, the Sword of Kas, you went seeking this weapon, long ago discarded and bound within a buried catacomb within a pit of acid along with various corpses left over from an ancient war. And in doing so, unfortunately notified Vecna of your arrival. As Vex passed through into the ethereal plane, the ring that kept any sort of scrying at bay was lost. And both Vax and Keyleth came to his attention. All of you managed to flee back to Scanlan's mansion where the rest were in wait. However, with a notification fresh at hand, the skeletal dragon swooped into the chamber where the mansion was set, on its back riding Lady Delilah Briarwood and the re-risen Sylas Briarwood. The mansion was dispelled, you were exited from the pocket plane and barely maneuvering, due to a very lucky roll, having your Plane Shift dispelled you made your way into the Feywild as a Hail Mary. And through a dick-drawing, made contact with the one archfey that you had encountered in your previous journeys, Artagan. Upon being summoned, and your knowledge of the strange time-altering nature of exiting the Feywild, you asked if it was within his power to ensure the condensing of the time passage when you were to return. He agreed, under two conditions. One, when this was all said and done, you would help him assemble a doorway in the Prime Material Plane, in which he could visit your space. And two, upon realizing that Vax was of some undying or re-rising nature, wished to strangle him until dead. You agreed, and shortly thereafter Vax expired into ashes and you all spent time awaiting his return. We've left off with the return of Vax, but if there's anything you wanted to do over that period of time before his arrival, now would be the time to do it.
Sam: Before his arrival?
Travis: When he walks back.
Laura: So that we can do some spells that will be in effect for a day. Potentially.
Sam: But he takes a while to come back.
Matt: It takes a little while, yeah.
Laura: So we should do some of our spells right before we go to sleep.
Sam: Yeah, for sure. Is that now?
Laura: I don't know!
Sam: Is sleep now?
Matt: That's up to you.
Laura: We do need to do Heroes' Feast. I have one chalice left.
Ashley: But then Vax won't be in the--
Laura: Unless we leave him a plate.
Matt: Well, the meal appears for a short time.
Laura: Then we need to do that right when he gets back.
Marisha: Right before we sleep?
Laura: Yeah, hopefully he'll be back before--
Sam: We'll wait a few hours.
Laura: We'll wait a few hours to see if he shows up and then we'll cast it to see because we need time to be able to do it.
Matt: We'll say for the truncating of the wait period that eight hours go by, 12 hours go by, it's hard to tell time in the Feywild, since it doesn't have a day-night cycle, it's always on the cusp of sunset. And the longer you wait, and the more the boredom sets in, the more the stress of the coming fray creeps into the back of your mind, you find that it seems like far too much time has passed and you begin to worry, you begin to twitch, you begin to do search parties around the surrounding forest, the possibility that he returned and got lost. You don't know how much time has passed until you convene to desperately ask if there was any possible sight, and at that point you hear the snapping of foliage beneath a distant foot, and you all turn and by the nearby tree you see entering the pale, nude, long dark-haired body of Vax returned in his revenant form for a second time.
Travis: Yep, that's him.
Liam: That was a thing. Does anyone have my clothing?
Laura: Yes.
Travis: No, they took it and ran, it was part of the penance. We fought bravely. It's buck naked from here on out.
Liam: That's going to make tomorrow a little squirrely.
Marisha: Scanlan awkwardly put it in a weird druid circle rock thing, it's over there.
Sam: We were protecting it for you.
Marisha: He doesn't know how to do druid circles really right.
Sam: The goddess Ioun told me to protect it in a circle reminiscent of the circle of my third eye.
Marisha: (whispering) I don't think he's telling the truth.
Liam: Do you have all my shoes and glasses so I may have them?
Sam: As Ioun wills it, yes.
Liam: Okay, could you lead me and my penis towards them now?
Sam: Ioun be pleased, I will.
Liam: We're still standing here. It's getting awkward.
Sam: I'm a holy man. It's supposed to be awkward.
Laura: I'm going to start the Heroes' Feast, I'm just going to get the chalice.
Taliesin: I'll help with that, that sounds like a great use of time and not watching this.
Travis: I have a question. Should we ask the Sword of Kas, since it's fought Vecna before, does it know of any weaknesses?
Laura: That's actually really smart. Wow, that's really smart, Grog!
Ashley: Oh good idea.
Taliesin: Don't think too hard about it.
Sam: We can't hear him so you'll have to talk. Hello?
Travis: Sorry.
Laura: That took a lot out of you.
Travis: I need to sit.
Taliesin: Grog, I have an idea. Why don't you ask the sword if it has any idea of Vecna's weaknesses?
Travis: (gasp) That's a good idea Percy!
Taliesin: I'm so glad I had it.
Travis: Oh my god, yes. Wait, wait, if I pull it out of the sheath to talk to it-- can I talk to it through the sheath?
Matt: You probably have to draw it.
Travis: I might have to draw it and then it's going to need the (glugging).
Laura: Here.
Travis: You?!
Laura: You can cut me.
Travis: Look, listen, I made a promise to your brother, he was very adamant that I'm supposed to stick it--
Taliesin: I'll take it. It's my turn.
Sam: Percy, what a tough thing for you to do.
Travis: Do you want just a hand slice or do you want to up the ante and I stick it in your thigh? I do have to bathe it, it has to be quite a coating.
Laura: Just do it, we'll heal him up.
Travis: Okay, cool, come on Percy. Buy the ticket, baby! So can I unsheathe Kas?
Matt: As you pull the blade out, there's a very silent glass against textured metal sound. The blade is so dark that barely any of the light seems to come across it. Where the blade is, up close, you can barely make out the outside of it, but as soon as you draw it the voice goes, "Hungry."
Taliesin: All right, just on the count of three.
Travis: Do I get to pick where? Okay. I reach around to the back of his knee and I pull along there.
Laura: Back of his knee?! Are you trying to take him out of commission for future fights? That's really terrible.
Taliesin: I said yes.
Laura: I want to cast Cure Wounds at third level on Percy.
Travis: Yeah, when you shave your legs the back of your knee is the tricky part, right?
Taliesin: It's just so I can swim faster, that was not for you to advertise.
Matt: As you deal with the nearly hamstrung self that is your right knee, the sword is coated well enough in Percival blood as it seeps into the darkened blade, and the voice goes "Ah, yes."
Travis: Respectfully, Kas, I had a few questions because I am on board to satisfy your maniacal desires to fuck up Vecna and all that he stands for, right? Oh no, Kas?
Matt: "Yes?"
Travis: Oh, thank god. Might need more blood soon. Do you know of any weaknesses that Vecna has, or opportunities that we could explite?
Matt: "He is more intelligent than most, but his arrogance gets the best of him. He likes a show."
Travis: Apparently he's really smart, and is arro-- aromatic.
Laura: He smells?
Marisha: Enigmatic?
Liam: Acrobatic.
Marisha: What does he mean?
Travis: He likes to put on a show, I think.
Laura: He likes to put on a show.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "He builds webs of plots, so many things intertwined."
Travis: Doesn't make much sense, apparently he builds whips out of plots.
Matt: "Cut the threads, and the web can falter."
Travis: Oh right, he strings things together like a web, you know, like a dog makes.
Laura: Oh that's smart, okay.
Matt: "I can cut these threads, bring me to these threads, bring me to him, I must cut him down, now, now."
Travis: Yeah, oh god, he's really adamant about cutting the webs.
Sam: He's a sword, he cuts, that's his thing.
Marisha: Wait, cutting webs?
Travis: Yeah. I guess Vecna has spider abilities. Pro-tip.
Laura: Okay. That's interesting, we didn't notice that before.
Travis: Any physical weaknesses, or things that he is vulnerable to that we should know?
Matt: "Me."
Travis: Him, okay, cool, I think we've got everything.
Marisha: He's vulnerable to-- oh, to--
Travis: To him.
Marisha: Got it, I got what they got.
Travis: All right, next time I pull you out in the light it will probably be to kill Vecna or someone that I don't like.
Matt: As you put it away you hear a (sigh).
Taliesin: You're actually going to pull that sword out and it will have committed suicide.
Travis: How's your knee, is it okay?
Taliesin: It's feeling much better, thank you.
Liam: Should we maybe talk out our plan for the moment?
Sam: Sure. That sounds fun.
Liam: No it doesn't, but I do think we should probably have at it. We've got the trammels, Grog's got them.
Laura: So Sylas is back.
Marisha: Along with Delilah. That's fun.
Laura: So my blessing, from Pelor.
Marisha: Hashtag blessed.
Laura: Hashtag blessed. Gives radiant damage to anything evil that attacks me with a spell. That's pretty neat, huh? I have a feeling radiant damage is going to be really important in this fight.
Marisha: I recently was able to attune to this armor that I haven't been able to attune to for a long time and now I'm resistant to spells. So that's good.
Laura: What?
Marisha: Yes.
Laura: You've just been wearing it and it's not done anything?
Marisha: Kind of. Well I had to attune to my ring and my antlers, and then I got the staff, so I let that go, but now I just wore it for long enough.
Liam: What are your three attuned right now?
Marisha: I have four, because I took a feat when I leveled up. Yeah that's pretty dope.
Travis: I got a whole bunch of more hit points.
Sam: What's a hit point?
Travis: It's like, I don't know. But I was thinking, I have all three trammels, right, and I need to get real close to do anything to Vecna. Is it stupid for me to have all of them?
Liam: Yes it is, we need to spread those out. We need to decide who is doing what, at least what we think is going to happen. I think I should take one of the trammels.
Laura: You're speedy, of course.
Marisha: And I think it's smart if Pike and I dedicate a decent amount of our spell power to Freedom of Movement right before we go in.
Taliesin: That won't be necessary for me but for the rest of you.
Travis: So we don't get paralyzed.
Sam: If Vax has a trammel, and Grog has a trammel, who has the third trammel?
Liam: One of these two.
Laura: I could do it.
Sam: Someone who can fly. You can fly.
Laura: I have a broom after all. But Pike can fly now too.
Sam: Don't you have to be super strong to use these trammels?
Marisha: Pike is super strong, she's a monstah!
Sam: No, I'm fine with that. Can she fly?
Laura: She can fly.
Ashley: I can now.
Sam: How?
Ashley: Well it's for ten minutes.
Sam: That's all we'll need.
Laura: Ten minutes is a long time if it's right at the beginning of the fight.
Sam: But that's when we'll need to use the trammels.
Matt: Giant wings.
Laura: It's pretty tight. Oh my god you can fucking fly!
Travis: I reach over to Pike, I spin her around, are there any wings on the back?
Matt: No.
Ashley: I don't know where they are!
Travis: I don't know how to break this to you. They're not there yet.
Sam: Sometimes they're on the ankles.
Travis: I turn her upside down, look at her feet.
Matt: No wings.
Travis: I turn her back. Just keep wishing, they'll grow in. Okay.
Ashley: Oh, thank you, Grog.
Laura: So do you think you're stronger, and you're more proficient with actual melee weapons, right? Because I don't think I can shoot a trammel from my bow.
Ashley: I feel like I'd be pretty proficient because it takes the strength to do it? I've got it.
Laura: Okay, let's have Pike hold the other one. So Pike, you're the third. And we have to protect our cleric.
Sam: What are all of us doing? I'm praying into a book.
Laura: Fighting.
Sam: Sure.
Matt: To give you a mechanical idea, based on what Ioun had notified you, the more damaged Vecna's avatar form is, the lower the DC to drive a trammel into the body.
Laura: Oh, so we got to bloody him up and then--
Matt: Possibly. Or roll really high early on, the choice is up to you, that is the risk you have to take.
Laura: We don't know, if we try it with the trammel and it doesn't work, it doesn't break the trammel, we just have to try again?
Matt: You have two strong and one fragile trammel in your midst.
Laura: Oh wait, who's holding the fragile one?
Liam: I am.
Laura: You're holding the fragile one.
Marisha: Okay, so save that one for when he's real fucked up. Percy and I had a thought for Grog.
Travis: Thank god, because I don't have any more.
Marisha: If you borrow Percy's Spider-Climbing boots I can maybe make some pillars to add for cover for some of us more rangey people, but then if I add pillars of different heights you can climb up them.
Travis: Do I have to attune to them?
Taliesin: No.
Travis: Does my speed translate to going up things as well?
Matt: Oh yeah.
Taliesin: I don't know what boots you have right now.
Travis: I have the Feral Leaping boots.
Taliesin: Would you rather just run like Spider-Man? Up to you.
Travis: If he's more than 20 feet in the air, I'm fucked.
Sam: How can we get Grog to fly, though? Because these pillars can't go all the way to the heavens, can they?
Marisha: I mean I could Shapechange into something and give him a mount, he can ride me.
Liam: What about you Scanlan?
Laura: Can you still cast if you're a dragon or something?
Marisha: I can cast in Beast Shape, Shapechange is a spell, so if I'm a dragon, beholder, that's what you get.
Matt: If the creature you transform into has spells you can use those spells, but that's the only circumstance.
Laura: There's coffee all over it.
Taliesin: Yes there is, there's coffee on everything there.
Marisha: Your dice tray dried nicely, though.
Taliesin: I think it actually has a little bit of nice character. Look at that.
Matt: A testament to Wyrmwood's craftsmanship. Critrole!
Laura: This got put in the dishwasher, and the leather got cooler after it got put in the dishwasher.
Matt: Anyway you guys.
Sam: No no, we're focused. I guess we could use these pillars, but it seems like a waste of your spell to get him halfway up towards Vecna, if Vecna is flying.
Laura: The thing is if you're flying you can get knocked off, I've been there, and then it's super bad, so actually the pillars are really wonderful in that regard.
Sam: If he's straight above us.
Marisha: Well I can do six of them, I can do a lot of pillars.
Laura: He could be off of the tower, yes, and then it's all ranged attacks, that's what we have.
Sam: All right, no plan.
Taliesin: The plans are easy, the magic users are going to be attacking Vecna with all they're worth.
Laura: Hopefully we'll be able to take out the Briarwoods before the fight.
Marisha: I can cause up to six pillars, each pillar is a cylinder five feet wide and up to 30 feet high, and can do six of them.
Sam: Can you do them on top of each other?
Marisha: Well, he wasn't that much more than 30 feet last time.
Laura: He was above us, but if he goes off of the tower.
Liam: I was about 50 or 60 feet in the air and I was above him.
Marisha: If I get Grog 30 feet up you still have your throwing axe, he's still reachable another 30 feet for you right? Theoretically.
Travis: Yeah, but I'm not using the axe or the hammer, I'm using the sword.
Matt: You can still attach the Chain of Returning to the Sword of Kas.
Travis: Yeah, but it's only one attack per action.
Matt: Correct.
Travis: Instead of three.
Marisha: But it's something, if he's out of range.
Taliesin: I'll have enough bullets that I may not be able to hurt him, but I can make him drop.
Travis: What are you planning on doing?
Sam: My plan is to not run away, because we're going to die fighting or we're going to save the world, right? So I definitely won't be running away. Definitely.
Laura: Scanlan.
Sam: I may run away.
Liam: If you do, and he slaughters everybody, and subjugates the entire world--
Sam: I'll tell your story, and I'll tell it very well.
Liam: As the Crumbly, the little guy to Jabba the Hutt, for Vecna.
Laura: Scanlan. If you promise you won't run away, I'll put this fucking hat back on.
Sam: (gasps)
Laura: And I bring out the stupid pointy hat that he gave me.
Sam: Wow! That's a deal.
Travis: Here's the thing, last time we fought Vecna, he went higher than 30 feet, he was up where Vax was before he fell.
Liam: I was above him though, and I was 50 or 60 up, he wasn't that high.
Travis: Oh.
Taliesin: Up to you, that is an option that is up to you. But let me know, because either way I'm going to either keep my boots or not keep my boots.
Marisha: Do we remember how high the tower orby situation was, did we get a number for it?
Matt: The tower of Entropis? The very height of it you didn't gauge entirely as you flew up, but even at a bit of distance, it was hundreds of feet high.
Marisha: No, I mean, there was the dome above that.
Matt: Oh, the dome above that is probably about another 100 or 200 feet above that. It's a big dome and it encompasses the entire city of Entropis.
Taliesin: And we don't know who's casting that, we don't know where that's coming from.
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Taliesin: Okay.
Marisha: I mean there's that gemstone thing that he's using.
Laura: Natural 20!
Taliesin: No, but a 21 will do it.
Matt: You recall, the Thar Amphala that is currently embedded in the titan is not the entire city, it's only the inner circle of the city. You encountered the inner circle of the city, and you saw a little bit of the edges, there's a wall that is built on the inside of Thar Amphala. This was the same wall that contained the threshold crests that caused it to transport from the Shadowfell to the Prime Material Plane. You looked at the energy of this field, you've seen it pulse from the wall upward, like (pulse sounds).
Taliesin: We could break through. We could break the wall.
Marisha: That's right! And then we could bring in the forces.
Laura: And then J'mon Sa Ord will be able to help us. Help us!
Marisha: Help us! Help us J'mon, help us!
Laura: That's good, we go over the walls first. Here's the good thing about us bamfing to the Feywild, right. They think we left, and if we all actually stick together and don't fuck up with this fucking ring next time, they won't know that we're there again. Because last time they had an idea because you guys, you know, almost died as we were going in.
Marisha: Yeah I know, I remember.
Sam: I have an idea about Grog flying that just occurred to me. Trinket's big.
Laura: He is.
Sam: Trinket could be Polymorphed into something else big, like a flying eagle of some sort. And actually be useful.
Laura: How dare you. If they Dispel that won't he just turn into Trinket and he'll fall?
Sam: Yes, but with big risk comes big reward.
Laura: Trinket?
Matt: Trinket over there is on the side, arms playing pillow to the muzzle.
Laura: Okay. Bud? If you fuck this up, Scanlan! Oh, I don't have any more spells, do I, to do it? He can understand me, I just can't understand him, with my Speak With Animals. Shit.
Ashley: Tell him to just shake his head.
Laura: Okay. Oh, it's 1st-level, I have a 1st-level left. Okay, here's the thing, Scanlan wants to turn you into something that flies.
Matt: You hear this slight squeak of a bear fart in his direction.
Laura: Good job. Yeah. Would you be willing to-- are you okay with that, for the actual big-- I mean, you could be up close and personal with fucking Vecna.
Matt: Trinket walks up to you now, and his fully grown form is a good foot and a half taller than you at the shoulders. He comes up and gets really close and (bear breathing), and butts his head against you, and then licks the side of your face.
Laura: Yeah?
Matt: And sits back.
Laura: Aw. You can do it. Don't hurt him! Okay.
Sam: It's a plan B.
Liam: Do you have anything gnarlier than-- I mean, I'm a little invested too, I've spent a lot of years with this bear-- like, anything gnarlier than-- an eagle's cool, but like anything with spikes, or rhino armor, or anything like that?
Taliesin: Like a flying rhino?
Liam: Can you do a flying rhino?
Sam: What flying things have we seen that are scary?
Laura: A wyvern.
Marisha: Polymorph, I don't know--
Sam: I can't Polymorph; I could True Polymorph Trinket and permanently make him a wyvern.
Matt: It can still be dispelled if it is permanent on True Polymorph, by the way.
Sam: It can be dispelled, just at an action?
Matt: Yeah. That was an errata to the spell that I've discovered as the internet made very keenly aware to me.
Sam: Even if it becomes permanent?
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Wow.
Marisha: Then what the fuck does "permanent" mean?
Sam: A simple, level three Dispel Magic can get rid of a 9th-level permanent Polymorph?
Matt: Well, you have to know that the creature has been polymorphed into that form. And even then, it's a 9th-level spell that you're trying to dispel, which is not--
Marisha: So they have to at least cast it at 9th-level, in order to dispel it.
Matt: To be instantaneous. Or they have to roll against it.
Sam: I'm not going to waste my True Polymorph on that. Just standard Polymorph.
Liam: Does that mean you could permanently do it to him, and then we cast Dispel Magic on him later to undo it?
Matt: Yeah. You could do that.
Laura: Yeah. Oh, so you could use that tonight.
Liam: Tonight. To lock him in.
Sam: Yeah. But it could still be dispelled.
Taliesin: He would have to burn a dispel at 9th-level.
Marisha: Wait, are you talking about Polymorph or True Polymorph right now?
Sam: I was just talking about Polymorph.
Laura: I think Polymorph tomorrow and then use your 9th-level spell for something major.
Liam: But if it's permanent, why not do it tonight?
Laura: Because he can use a 9th-level spell tonight for something.
Marisha: Because Polymorph only lasts for, like, an hour. What else you have?
Laura: As we're doing this, we're making the feast, because we're about to get ready to go to bed, right?
Marisha: Nom, nom, nom, nom, nom food.
Laura: Yeah, so we make our feast before we go to sleep.
Matt: All right. Polymorph is a concentration spell, so keep that in mind.
Sam: Yes.
Liam: Oh.
Taliesin: Oh.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: You wouldn't have to concentrate with True Polymorph.
Sam: True.
Matt: But. Those are just the specifications.
Sam: What's more important?
Liam: Could he be a baby, like a young ancient dragon?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: You can turn Trinket into a dragon?
Sam: Well, let's see here. He has a challenge rating, doesn't he, this Trinket.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: I will put Trinket at about a challenge rating of six, I'd say. Because he's not a full, powerful creature; he's a complement to you.
Laura: Right.
Matt: I'd put him at a six, maybe. High end.
Sam: So monsters of a six. I don't even know; I'll look at the list.
Matt: Okay. Think about it. Regardless. Who's casting? You said you were casting Heroes' Feast? All right, as you set up the table, you summon forth the meal that is infused with divine energy. You all begin to eat in solemn quiet, occasionally discussing plans and tactics. The delicious--
Laura: Artagan can join us.
Matt: Oh, he does. Don't worry. As soon as you guys begin to eat, at the far end of the table you see the orange mane erupt from the side of table as he takes a seat. "Oh, wondrous. I appreciate this, thank you."
Liam: So did that live up to your expectations, then?
Matt: "Hello. It was all right."
Liam: New hobby, or--?
Matt: "I don't know. Have to try when they're not willing. That's a joke; that's a joke."
Laura: Okay. Hey, Artagan, can you look at this wand?
Matt: "Which wand?"
Laura: This wand in my hand.
Matt: Which wand are you handing him?
Laura: It was a wooden wand from one of Vecna's people that I hijacked.
Matt: It's a war wand. It's a plus one wand. For anyone who's casting a spell through it, it's a plus one modifier to DC.
Laura: Oh, do you have to attune?
Matt: Generally you have to attune to these, yeah.
Laura: Okay. Great. All right. Thanks.
Taliesin: There's nothing special about these symbols that they wear around their necks, are they? Just since it is in your interest to keep us alive long enough to build you a portal.
Matt: "Well, it doesn't require or contain any magic, if that's what you're asking."
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: It's just jewelry.
Matt: "Well, it's a focus. It's a divine focus for those who wish to utilize it to draw energy from their deity of choice, and/or just a token of brotherhood."
Travis: Boring.
Matt: "Delicious meal, by the way."
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Is it yours?"
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: "Thank you."
Travis: So good.
Ashley: Oh, you're so welcome.
Matt: "All right. When do you intend to go back?"
Laura: As soon as we go to sleep and wake up.
Matt: "Well then. Sleep it is." And he gestures over, his hand behind you, and as you look back you can see there's a series of beds that have all constructed out of the nearby moss and vines. They grow and lift up out of the natural floor of the Feywild. As the beds form, you watch as the tethered vines and roots to the ground begin to form these dome-like tents over each specific bed.
Laura: Oh, good. Privacy.
Marisha: Are you doing anything?
Sam: Oh, yeah.
Marisha: With your thing, before we go to sleep?
Sam: I mean, if I True Polymorph him, Trinket, I could do a wyvern, or a young white dragon, or-- Is J'mon a brass or bronze?
Travis: Brass.
Matt: Brass.
Sam: I could do a young brass, young white dragon, or a wyvern. Or I could have another Scanlan.
Laura: Oh. I vote Scanlan.
Sam: Scanlan Two can cast Polymorph.
Laura: And he'll just hang around with us? Second Scanlan hangs around with us until what?
Liam: I mean, that is flat-out amazing.
Sam: We'll see. (laughs) Or not.
Taliesin: The world is ready for two Scanlans.
Sam: I'm pretty sure it will be apparent that he is not a real person.
Ashley: How will he know which is which?
Sam: That's true. Well, you'll know, because, come on. This charm can't be replicated.
Liam: Nah, we need two hats or something.
Marisha: Hang on, I will say, a second Scanlan will immediately clue in Vecna that there's some trickery magic going on.
Sam: Sure.
Marisha: Is there a way that second Scanlan can be, like, definitely hidden? So he can just be (snaps) support Scanlan? Counterspell Scanlan?
Taliesin: If we give him the Hat of Disguise, then there's just a magical field being about a magical--
Liam: Can the Meat Man join us?
Laura: Yeah, let's do that.
Sam: Yeah. He could be the Meat Man.
Travis: No truesight? No seeing through this?
Laura: I'm sure they have truesight. Vecna's a god. Of course he can see everything.
Sam: But I think you have to use truesight. It doesn't just happen.
Matt: As a god of secrets, probably see through an illusion.
Travis: No, no, on. We're going to pull it over on Vecna. We're fine. This is a great plan.
Matt: Just throwing it out there, based on your experience, even the creatures around the tower have truesight.
Laura: Oh, shit. So he's going to know even, like, he's going to know Trinket's not a fucking-- Is that seen on truesight? Oh, no, he's actually that animal. So he'd have to know.
Travis: Do it, man. Do it. We're overthinking it.
Marisha: Because he can also maybe just cast support stuff for us, right?
Laura: Yeah, exactly. Fuck it. Do it!
Liam: Can Vecna just dispel the second Scanlan away?
Sam: He can can certainly try.
Taliesin: And he will have to burn some stuff.
Marisha: And the only other thing would be, like, a second Pike to do all of the Freedom of Movement stuff, and things like that--
Sam: That's nice.
Marisha: Those Counterspells, man--
Matt: Just keep in mind, Counterspell can't be done unless they're on the field to see the spell being cast and within 60 feet. So second Scanlan would have to be in the fray.
Marisha: Can second Scanlan be invisible second Scanlan?
Sam: He can for a while, yeah.
Matt: You can. And things that see through invisibility, like a god of secrets, would probably see through it.
Liam: You can never have enough Scanlan. There's always room for Scanlan.
Sam: These are good catch phrases, for sure.
Taliesin: Depending on whether or not you have the mount, let me know if you want to trade boots or not, since these are non-attunable.
Marisha: Okay, hang on, if someone has to roll to see if second Scanlan is dispelled, do you have to roll?
Matt: No.
Marisha: Second Scanlan has to roll?
Matt: Vecna would have to roll.
Marisha: Vecna has to roll.
Taliesin: And Vecna will win.
Liam: You know how Vecna rolls.
Travis: And we're definitely doing the pillars?
Marisha: I can throw up pillars.
Travis: No, I mean, are we, or are we not?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: We are doing the pillars, if he's not doing something on Trinket.
Marisha: I think the pillars could be good for cover and other things. Because I'm assuming we're--
Travis: Okay, cool. We're doing the pillars.
Laura: Scanlan, do something so that we can sleep.
Sam: All right. I need the strength of two mes to win this fight. So I'm going to drop to my knees, and Wish to the gods that there was somehow more of me, that I could somehow be in two places at the same time. I wish for more me. Me-more. Me, but more. Ms Scanlan.
Matt: All right. As the words leave your lips, you can see Artagan himself, as he finishes the meal, leans back. "Hmm." Like, seemingly taken aback by the power of these words you've spoken, as you watch as hints of nearby slowly melting snowfall that seem to have gathered elements at the base of the trees nearby begin to slowly congeal into a form. You do realize that this is going to take you 12 hours to complete, right?
Sam: Oh, yeah.
Laura: So you should've started that earlier.
Sam: Shit. (laughs)
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: So can we decide that earlier?
Matt: No.
Travis: No.
Marisha: That's cool.
Sam: You guys can sleep, then I'll sleep, you wait for me.
Matt: You'll be arriving a little later than originally anticipated. Who knows what ramifications that'll have.
Travis: Just do it, man.
Sam: Sorry. It's already being done.
Matt: All right, so.
Sam: Shit! We should have done that when we were waiting for fucking Vax!
Laura: I know!
Marisha: I thought that's what we were doing!
Sam: I didn't know it takes that long!
Marisha: We tried. Wait, we definitely mentioned that!
Matt: Simulacrum is a 12-hour casting time.
Sam: (whispers) Okay.
Travis: It's okay.
Ashley: It's okay. It's done.
Laura: What's done is done.
Matt: Over the next 12 hours, you sit there focusing on trying to press your will into this congealing snow golem of Scanlan, and watch as it slowly takes form and breathes air, and-- with no equipment, of course-- but has your knowledge, your spells. Eventually, the completion of the spell brings to life a secondary Scanlan, under your beck and call.
Sam: Oh my god. Hello, Scanlan, is it you?
Matt: "It's me."
Sam: (gasps) Oh!
Matt: (gasps) Oh!
Sam: You're shorter than I thought you'd be.
Matt: "Speak for yourself."
Sam: All right, let's just see if you're really Scanlan.
Matt: He's already naked.
Sam: Oh, okay. Let's see. I whip out my little measuring tape. One inch, by one inch, by one inch. Mm-hmm. That part's the same.
Matt: "Mm-hmm. How do we know I'm not the real Scanlan?"
Laura: How do we know you're not the real Scanlan?
Sam: I think there's only one way to find out.
Liam: Sing off.
Sam: (singing) Naa!
Matt: (singing in unison) "Naa! Molto bene, molto bene--"
Sam: (singing in unison) "Naa! Molto bene, molto bene--"
Taliesin: Well, that's everything I needed.
Matt: You're halfway through your sleep.
Laura: Shut up, Scanlans!
Travis: Isn't Wish instantaneous?
Matt: The spell is instantaneous, unless it's copying the effect of a spell.
Sam: All right. This worked. Scanlan, let's go to sleep.
Matt: "All right, Scanlan. Where to?"
Sam: I'll spoon you.
Matt: "Okay." All right, you guys head off to your domicile.
Liam: This is the last check off your list, I think.
Taliesin: Some items for other Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, we have extra items?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Oh, yeah. Other Scanlan can wear things? He's fully--
Matt: He can wear things.
Travis: You want bracers of defense? Plus two to your AC?
Laura: Oh, yeah, put on that armor that I gave you.
Sam: Because he doesn't have any of my items, does he?
Matt: Nope. He is naked.
Laura: Put him in the armor I gave you that you don't wear.
Sam: Yes, yes, I will put him in the armor of--
Laura: Acid resistance.
Sam: Acid-- No, I have acid, you had cold.
Laura: No, I have cold now. It was--
Sam: Oh, we had two acids!
Laura: Yeah, that's what it was.
Sam: Yeah. So it's acid resistance.
Matt: Okay. There you go.
Ashley: I have a shield of fire resistance.
Laura: What about the wand of plus one, for the spells?
Sam: Wand of plus one, what is that?
Laura: It's a war wand.
Sam: Yeah, great. Do that.
Taliesin: And then, here.
Sam: He's also got bracers of defense, gloves of missile snaring, and a dragon slayer longsword? Sure, why not.
Matt: All right, so you got those. So you go ahead and find yourself to sleep. The rest of you, the night's rest, if there's any final words before the fray comes, anything you want to do to calm yourself before the final battle, now's the time.
Laura: Oh god.
Ashley: Fuck.
Laura: This could be it, huh?
Marisha: This is real fucked up.
Travis: I'm real excited, actually. Like, you know, you always want to test yourself to see what you're made of, what is your mettle really like. We're going to find out. We're really going to find out. Nobody else excited?
Taliesin: I don't know if excited is the word.
Marisha: There's been a few times that we've all known we could die together, but this might actually be it.
Laura: Oh. That's true.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: You know what? We're doing it for a good cause, though. Saving the world.
Marisha: It's fine. Yeah?
Travis: Yeah. Together, right?
Sam: Together.
Ashley: Together.
Taliesin: No regrets.
Laura: No regrets.
Liam: These last three or four years have been the best of my life.
Marisha: Same.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: I had a good run a few years before that, but this is pretty great.
Taliesin: I'm going to remember that you said that.
Sam: Last year I was a crime boss, but the last few days have been really fun.
Taliesin: Everything since I met you all has felt like a dream. Even the worst of it.
Travis: I love all of you. (snores)
Marisha: Aw, that's so cute; he's honest when he's asleep.
Taliesin: Would it be wrong to shave his beard, just one more time?
Travis: (snorts awake before returning to snoring)
Liam: We need his head in the game.
Laura: Yeah. It gives him strength.
Marisha: I think it's like his focus, you know?
Travis: Boobies.
Taliesin: One of them, yes.
Ashley: I feel like I don't want to go to sleep.
Laura: (whispers) I know. We need to, though.
Marisha: Like, it's weird to say goodnight, right?
Laura: We can totally take this guy. Fuck it. We're not going down.
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah. He doesn't know what's going to hit him.
Laura: Exactly.
Sam: We're the S.H.I.T.s.
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: Yeah!
Laura: Fuck him.
Ashley: Yeah.
Laura: We've got other gods on our side. He's a fucking half-ass god.
Ashley: That's true.
Laura: That's right. And you-- You're not going anywhere.
Marisha: All right. Good night?
Laura: Good night.
Taliesin: In the morning.
Liam: Yeah, Percy, get your rest, because your last words to me tomorrow need to be indignant and irritated.
Taliesin: I've already planned them out.
Liam: Goodnight, brother.
Taliesin: Goodnight, brother.
Travis: And we sleep.
Matt: All right. You all find yourselves resting, uncomfortable at first, but the knowledge and the exhaustion hitting you, eventually it takes you. The dreams lead seamlessly, one to the next. Memories of your meeting, of your story, of your experiences, bleeding between your fears, your victories, and the people whose lives you've touched and who've touched your lives. Of Wilhand. The fall of Kevdak. To the respect of your father, and the vengeance of your mother. To climbing the destiny of the Aramente. To rebuilding the memory of one's family. And to spooning a second version of yourself. (laughing)
Liam: (singing) Oh, my darling, I hunger for your touch--
Matt: And knowing that you've taken your faith from a place of being forgotten to a newly built symbol of hope. These thoughts all mingle, as the dark of rest takes you. And as you all awake, in the center of this strange, mystical meadow, peeking through the hints of purple and orange that signify the sky that breaks through the canopy of this forest, the pools of Nala that once brought you here long ago. You all awake, the beds gone, the tents gone. You're all lying amongst this field in a circle, around each other. As you come to consciousness, you all sit up, take a breath, feel the warmth and the knowledge of what has to be done wash over you, the shadow between two distant trees reveals the orange mane of Artagan once more, as he steps forth, his high green collar disappearing into his long sleeves, and a cloak that billows past his shoulders and loops into his back, as he almost glides effortlessly through the grass. "I take it you all slept well?"
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Well, then. Time is of the essence. You've been here more than a day."
Laura: Just barely.
Matt: "Just know. But whenever you're ready. I'll see what I can whip up." As he wipes his fingers against each other, you can see the sparkle, spiral of purples and blues and oranges and colors, causing this glow under his face and his hair as he gets excited at the prospect of seeing just how far he can tweak the boundaries of the Feywild that he calls home.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: Here we go.
Travis: What are you holding over there?
Sam: Myself. My other hand.
Laura: Trinket's back in the necklace for the bamfing over.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: To Thar Amphala. On the back of a titan. On the Material Plane.
Matt: "Take them." As you concentrate, and the spell begins to swell around you, this familiar energy begins to ride up in your stomach. You feel the butterflies take form. And as the realm begins to darken, the colors that you see, spiraling out of Artagan's hands, begin to consume you as well. And nausea takes over and you feel yourself wretched left and right, as darkness begins to swell once more and close in, the colors surround you entirely. And you feel like you're being pushed through a window. As you all land and catch your feet, the darkness subsides, the color subsides, and you all feel immediately queasy, falling to your knees. As you glance around you, you can see you stand in the rubble, the exterior of a building that has fallen long ago. You see large chunks of the secondary floor fallen inward and dust (poof) around you as your knees hit. You look up and can see the familiar green-blue crackle of the barrier above you. You've managed to make it on the interior of Thar Amphala. You look up to see, immediately, clusters of gloomstalkers in the distance. They haven't quite gotten a view on you.
Laura: In the building, now!
Matt: You guys all dart. Make a stealth check, please.
Travis: First roll, first roll, first roll.
Liam: Natural 20.
All: Hey!
Marisha: Good luck!
Laura: Oh, that's good.
Matt: That's one way to do it.
Marisha: Oh, natural 19.
All: Ooh.
Sam: Scanlan One, 19. Scanlan Two, 21.
Taliesin: 19.
Marisha: 28.
Laura: 35.
Ashley: 18.
Travis: 11.
Matt: Okay. This building is mostly collapsed; there's a small alcove in the corner where part of the secondary story is still there. You guys dart into the side of it and you rest there for a minute in quiet. (nervous breathing) And you suddenly hear an impact of stone against the wall behind you. All of you guys immediately turn around and you watch as the heavy piece of stone that marks the outer part of this building is now cracked, and part of it begins to fall in. I need Scanlan One, real Scanlan, and Percy to make dexterity saving throws, please.
Sam: Not good. Ten.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn a resolve.
Travis: Burning it already?
Sam: What?
Taliesin: I rolled really low. I want to do that a little better.
Liam: So take a conk on the head!
Taliesin: Oh, fine.
Laura: No, you don't know! You don't know!
Taliesin: I don't know-- which is why I am.
Matt: What are you going to do? Are you going take it or not?
Taliesin: No, I'm going to kill a resolve, one more. That's way better! Natural 20.
Matt: Okay, cool. You only take three points of bludgeoning damage.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: Scanlan takes six.
Taliesin: It's just a resolve; I got three.
Travis: Six points.
Matt: You reduced three points of damage.
Laura: I thought they could be trapped under the wall or something.
Taliesin: No, it was fair. I'm not in the mood for that. And resolves I got plenty of.
Matt: It crumples over onto you. You manage to pull away. As you turn around, you can see, right around the edge of the part of the building that's collapsed and fallen, a gloomstalker, covered in dust, shaking its head as it attempts to stand once more. It looks like it's been slammed to the ground, or crashed into this wall. And you can see it's on the ground, (croaking noises), shaking its head and trying to get back up, its wings trying to unfurl. As it rights its head, you see a leaping blur of black armor and red scales climb to the back of the beast, grasping the side of its shoulders as it spins back and forth, trying to shake it. You see this humanoid figure, trying to take something and throw it around its throat and its head, however, it's just not able to grasp it around, and gets thrown off the side and to the back. You watch as the gloomstalker bucks off the assailant and begins to try and get its wings up once more, as the figure leaps up again and shoulder slams it into the wall a second time. You get a better look at it now. You can see now, standing at a pretty decent height, about a seven-foot dragonborn of red scale and black, hooked armor, bladed and angry. You see a burning fury in its eyes. Joe, if you want to come to the table, please.
All: Ooh! (cheering)
Liam: Welcome to the table!
Sam: What's this? (cheering and laughing)
Joe: Yes!
Travis: Brothers in arms! Yeah!
Taliesin: I like that it's kitty-corner right now.
Joe: The tanks on the ends.
Matt: Arkhan. You've been trying to wrestle this gloomstalker down-- You spent days here, trying to find a way to recover from the circumstances that left you here. This is the closest thing you've had at this circumstance, as you've regained your strength, and as you leap onto its back, it continues to knock you off to the side. You guys see this confrontation happening. What do you do?
Laura: Does it look like-- (pained noise)
Travis: No, I'll run in.
Liam: Yeah, he's attacking a gloomstalker; I'll join in.
Matt: All right, so what are you guys doing?
Liam: I'm going to help this guy out and throw.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and make two attacks.
Liam: All right. Plus one to--
Joe: Wait, don't hurt him! Don't hurt him; I scream: Don't hurt him.
Matt: Well, he's thrown two daggers.
Liam: I did, and they both hit.
Matt: Yes. Technically adjacent, so you do sneak attack damage.
Liam: All right, I will.
Sam: Oh boy.
Liam: Four-- It could be bad. 12--
Taliesin: Oh, wow. What are you doing?
Laura: All of the damage.
Travis: Save it for battle!
Liam: 34, 35-- I can't! It's too late; it's triggered!
Laura: No! Don't do it!
Liam: 46 for the first.
Sam: I cover tiny Scanlan's eyes.
Laura: Welcome to the game, Joe!
Travis: This is what we do.
Marisha: Yeah, what were you trying to do?
Joe: I hope you have a healing potion.
Sam: Nope.
Matt: That's 51 points of damage. You have 46 and four? It's 50 points of damage. Marking that down. You see two daggers into the side of the gloomstalker. It gives this horrible shrieking shout in pain and rears up.
Joe: Now that it's distracted, does that give me some sort of advantage?
Matt: I will say, given the pain it's had, make an athletics check because you are attempting to grapple the entity.
Joe: That's correct. All right, okay.
Laura: Can we see, does it look like he's got hands and eyes complete?
Joe: That's athletics, that's going to be a 19.
Matt: Natural 20.
Joe: Is it part dragon?
Matt: No. It is not. It's considered a monstrosity.
Joe: Okay, fair enough. Okay.
Matt: That's okay. You hear the dragonborn shout out, seeing the dagger slam into its side. What do you yell to them as they're attacking it?
Joe: Don't hurt this thing. Help me wrestle it to the ground.
Matt: At which point, it now thrusts the dragonborn off of its back. He goes tumbling and rolling onto the ground, landing onto your back, and you see it--
Laura: I throw out the Rope of Entanglement. On the gloomstalker.
Marisha: I turn to Percy, and I go  Who's fighting who?!
Taliesin: I don't know!
Matt: So now I would like an initiative roll from everybody, please.
Travis: Oh shit.
Taliesin: Oh shit.
Travis: What's that? Plus a d10 to my initiative now?
Sam: Does Scanlan Two take my initiative, or no?
Matt: Separately.
Laura: You're two people again! How does it feel?
Sam: The best.
Matt: 25 to 20, anybody?
Laura: 24.
Sam: Natural 20, which made a 23.
Travis: 22.
Matt: All right. Grog-- All right. Super low. All right, 20 to 15?
Joe: 17.
Marisha: 17.
Sam: Oh, sorry, Scanlan Two is also 21.
Liam: Joe, you're sitting on Scanlan Two.
Matt: All right. 15 to ten?
Taliesin: 12. No, really?
Ashley: Well, would I be Pike without rolling shit initiative?
Matt: Vax, what'd you get?
Liam: Eight.
Matt: Eight, wow. What'd you get, Pike?
Ashley: Yes. A six.
Matt: All right, so. Vex, you're up first. You're going to use the--
Laura: The Rope of Entanglement, is what I was going for. I can't find my--
Matt: I have the sheet here. So you thrust it out. It has to make a DC 15 dexterity saving throw.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Let's see here-- Natural one. Natural 20 to natural one. Back to back. As you fall onto your back and shout that out, you go rushing towards it and you watch as this glowing, long piece of thick rope begins to suddenly wrap around this gloomstalker as it's trying to take off again. It gets, like, a foot off the ground before its wings get pulled up to its body, and it falls back onto the ground, wrapped and restrained by the rope.
Joe: Great. I can do my thing now?
Matt: Is anybody else going to do anything, right now?
Travis: Yeah, I run up. I'm going to run up, and grab it by the head and neck and lay on it.
Matt: Okay. Scanlans?
Sam: I'm just watching. And I turn to Scanlan Two and say: So that's a gloomstalker.
Taliesin: "Yes."
Sam: And that guy, I'm not sure what he is, but he looks really cool.
Taliesin: "I know what he is. I'm not going to tell you, though."
Matt: All right, Arkhan.
Joe: I remove this golden-needled, five-jeweled wreath from around my neck, and I approach the beast, and I fasten it around its neck.
Sam: Shock collar.
Travis: Shock collar.
Matt: Kind of. So it's a DC 17.
Travis: If it barks, it activates.
Matt: Five plus six, that's an eleven. It does not succeed. You watch as the thrashing around gloomstalker on the ground begins to slowly calm down until it reaches a point where it's not moving; it's breathing, and you almost hear what sounds like a reverse purr.
Joe: Does this thing have horns?
Matt: It has a series of spines along the back of the neck, but no actual horns. It has a head that flares out like a cobra, but it's made of shadow. Where the jaw is, its tongue lashes out, but instead of saliva, it gives off smoke.
Joe: Then I grab it by the back of the jaw, here, and I put my forehead down to its forehead, and I close my eyes, and then open them, and they turn into that thing's eyes, correct?
Matt: Mm-hmm.
Joe: Yeah.
Matt: So the gloomstalkers, they have no discernible pupil; it's a glowing beacon of yellow-white where each eye is. And you watch as this dragonborn opens its eyes, it's headbutted against it, and the dragonborn's eyes now match the coloration of the gloomstalker.
Joe: I climb up onto its back.
Matt: Okay. It's still bound by the rope. But you get up onto it now. You watch as this massive dragonborn gets up onto the gloomstalker, which is now currently on the ground, trying to right itself now, still wrapped in the rope.
Joe: You can release the rope now.
Laura: Does it look like anybody's noticed us?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: We've been fighting silently.
Laura: 33.
Matt: You do look and see two more gloomstalkers that have broken away from the cluster, that are making their way in your direction.
Laura: Will this thing obey you? We should get inside. I let go of the rope and go back in the building so that we can hide.
Matt: Okay. Everyone else following?
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: Everyone else following suit?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Okay. You?
Joe: Yeah. Absolutely.
Matt: All right. Do you leave the gloomstalker where it is and then step inside with them?
Joe: Can I take it with me?
Matt: If you want to.
Joe: I'd like to take it with me.
Matt: As you guys all dart inside this alcove in the building-- Like, most of the roof is gone; there's a section of roof that's there. It can hide most of you. The gloomstalker's a bit large, as you all cluster into the space, as it looms in. (heavy footsteps) This is the second time you've had an allied gloomstalker this close, and it's a very upsetting proximity.
Marisha: Uncomfortable elevator at a convention.
Matt: Kind of. As you guys pull into the side, I'd like you all to make a stealth check, please.
Marisha: Why did you wear wings?
Laura: Stealth check!
Joe: If I'm on its back, does that have anything to do with my plate armor? Meaning, am I relying on some form of stalking that doesn't make my armor clank around?
Matt: Unfortunately, as you're still riding it and it moves and shifts, there is still the plate sitting against it, so you would still be at a disadvantage.
Joe: Am I the only one in plate armor here?
Laura: No, she's got plate armor.
Ashley: Nope. Clanky twins!
Joe: I just didn't want to be fully responsible.
Travis: She has something that makes her less clanky-like.
Laura: Yeah, you got your boots.
Ashley: Boots!?
Laura: Yeah, so you don't roll at disadvantage anymore.
Ashley: Wait, wait.
Laura: Yeah. You got non-clanky boots.
Joe: And I am at disadvantage? (sighs)
Laura: Add ten to your roll.
Sam: Yeah, you're fine.
Joe: Okay. 20.
Travis: Aw, yeah!
Joe: Disadvantage.
Matt: By the way, there's your stat sheet for the gloomstalker.
Joe: Yes!
Matt: It's taken 50 damage, so you can note that.
Joe: Can I feed it a healing potion?
Matt: When you have a moment you can, yeah.
Joe: Yeah. Trust me. It's all going to work out. What could go wrong?
Liam: You were jumping at him, and punching him in the face. I thought wrong. I do that sometimes.
Ashley: Do you have a name for him?
Sam: Do you have a name?
Ashley: Do you have a name? That's true. I just love animals.
Sam: We can kill you any second, so be scared of us, if you're an evil person.
Joe: You could. But I know these two.
Sam: What?
Matt: And there's a moment of recognition for Percival and Keyleth.
Marisha: Oh, holy shit.
Travis: No way.
Marisha: Oh. It's been, like-- two years?
Taliesin: At least two years.
Joe: At least. Percival, you've aged. Keyleth, you still look the same.
Marisha: (giggles)
Taliesin: She got a haircut.
Laura: Oh, shit. Are you going to let him do that to your girl?
Matt: It's at this moment you hear two heavy impacts from nearby rooftops.
Travis: Okay. Maybe not the best reunion time.
Matt: As you all stay as silent as possible, waiting, one of them takes off. And you can see it arc barely over the opening, but seems to be doing a wide sweep, out of visual range. The other one appears to be stalking from rooftop to rooftop, not far from you. (thudding) (sniffing and croaking) It leaps and lands on top of the small part of the roof that's above you guys. It holds. A few rocks tumble around you as you're quietly in that space, hoping. (thudding and croaking) Its head peeks over the edge and looks straight down, right into all of you.
Laura: Oh, God darn it.
Matt: What are you doing?
Laura: I shoot an arrow into its eyeball.
Matt: Okay. So as soon as the head passes over, make your attacks. You're close enough to get one swipe up, because you're on the back of a gloomstalker. So as its head peeks down, you can get a strike at it.
Travis: How high up?
Matt: It's about, I'd say, 12 to 15 feet up.
Laura: 35.
Matt: That hits.
Joe: That's going to be a 31.
Matt: That hits.
Joe: Damn, that's a Vox Machina number. About damn time. That's what level 17 will get you. All right. Yeah.
Matt: All righty. So.
Liam: 20, 21, and a miss.
Matt: Okay. So those both hit.
Laura: 25 damage.
Matt: 25 damage, all righty.
Laura: Oh, and I get to do it again?
Matt: You do.
Liam: Is his proximity close enough that either of these guys are within five feet, or anybody's within--?
Matt: No. Oh, I'd say Arkhan probably is.
Laura: 18?
Matt: 18 damage?
Laura: 18, does that hit?
Matt: That does hit, yeah.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: Come on, insta-kill this thing.
Marisha: I know. I don't want to have to do anything.
Laura: 18.
Matt: Okay.
Joe: This is the paladin dilemma. I think I'm going to save the spell slots. But I am going to swing at this guy.
Matt: Go for it.
Joe: Okay, I'm going to swing my battleaxe, Fane-Eater.
Matt: Okay. So you get two attacks with that.
Joe: Great. Oh, okay. Well, one was 31.
Matt: Yep.
Joe: Oh, that's going to be nine, plus 14. That's 23 points of damage on the first one. And then second attack is going to be a 23.
Matt: That hits.
Joe: And that's going to be 21 points of damage on the second.
Matt: All right. And with that, as soon as its head peeks over the edge, two arrows (whooshing) under its throat, and you watch as an axe cuts part of its head clean off, as it tries to make a noise, but the blade is caught in its throat and prevents the air passage. As Fane-Eater is yanked out of the side, you see the jagged edge of the axe arc back, causing blood to splatter across the back, the wall behind him, as Arkhan goes in with a second swipe. And with one clean cleave motion, the head falls and plummets into the ground. The rest of the gloomstalker tumbles in, lifeless, into the rock. And you see as it lands, its wings sprawl out and slowly the body begins to dissolve into black smoke and shadow.
Sam: I run out and I say  Wait! Don't kill it! I'm just kidding. It's fine.
Taliesin: Vox Machina, may we introduce you to Arkhan?
Sam: Arkhan?
Marisha: Arkhan.
Sam: Hi.
Marisha: You look like you've, you know-- You look like us. You got more stuff. We've acquired more stuff, over the years. That's cool.
Sam: How do you know this gentleman?
Taliesin: We did some work, ages ago.
Marisha: Yeah, forever. Before we really knew any of you.
Joe: The temple of Shumash.
Laura: How did you get here?
Marisha: It was a crappy swamp. It was good times. Yeah.
Matt: Technically it was a desert, but yeah.
Marisha: It was a crappy desert. Good times.
Sam: Well, it was the worst kind of swamp. It was one with no water.
Marisha: It was, yes. The driest of swamps, yeah.
Taliesin: What are you doing here?
Joe: That's a long story. Weeks ago, we wound up attacked by a cult, my companions and I. This cult was led by a Death Knight. And a sorcerous woman.
Sam: Lady Briarwood.
Marisha: Sylas?
Joe: And then Vecna followed. And we were ambushed. My companions and I were marked for death. They were all destroyed. And I watched that Death Knight burn the closest thing I've ever had to a brother. And he cut the still-beating heart out of our goliath. And then these buzzards came to pick my bones, thinking I was dead. But I wouldn't die. The queen had another plan for me.
Sam: The queen? What kind of queen?
Joe: I hold up my shield.
Matt: Make a religion check, Scanlan.
Sam: Hm, that's no good. 11?
Matt: You have passing knowledge that the symbols that adorn both around Arkhan's throat and the shield that he holds up are that of the Scaled Tyrant, Tiamat, which is the patron god to chromatic and evil dragons all across the world.
Laura: Oh, he's evil. That's evil. That's the evil dragon. Potentially.
Sam: You serve this queen?
Taliesin: He's our kind of evil. It's fine.
Joe: I understand that because of my dogma, we belong to groups that would never mix, but I can assure you, if you help me get revenge on the one that killed my friends, I swear to you, I will fight for your lives with the fury of a man who is already dead.
Taliesin: I think we have a surprising amount already in common.
Travis: Good pitch.
Sam: Devil's advocate  maybe not. I don't know, maybe--
Liam: I mean, I'm just going to do an insight check on principle.
Joe: I make the gloomstalker snarl at the two Scanlans.
Matt: (snarls)
Liam: Yeah, I rolled an eight. He checks out.
Marisha: Quick question. We didn't roll our temporary hit points for our Heroes' Feast.
Matt: Oh, you did not. You should do that.
Marisha: Can we do that? Or does Pike do that for us?
Matt: Yeah, Pike, you roll the temporary hit points.
Marisha: For all of us, right? It's an additional 2d10, I'm pretty sure.
Matt: So roll 2d10, Pike. And everyone who was present for that--
Laura: Oh, yeah, you should give us a speech. How long does that last?
Marisha: Oh, I totally should've given a speech.
Liam: That's a ten-minute one, yeah?
Marisha: No, it's a short rest thing. But it's a thing that lasts until--
Laura: Later, then.
Marisha: Yeah. I should've done that before, but I'll do it next time.
Sam: Whatcha doing over there, Johnson?
Ashley: I'm just looking for my tens!
Laura: Oh no!
Liam: Two ones.
Marisha: Two ones?
Ashley: Wait, are these 12s?
Laura: No, those are tens.
Matt: All right. So you guys gain two additional hit points, to your max hit points.
Laura: That is such a bummer.
Joe: Is that everybody?
Matt: Yeah. You weren't there for the meal, unfortunately. It's from earlier.
Laura: It's okay; the meal didn't do a lot, apparently.
Ashley: So glad I'm here to be useful.
Matt: However, everyone does still have their advantage on wisdom saving throws and you're immune to fear. Which is pretty huge.
Marisha: And poison.
Matt: And poison. The hit points are more of, like, a bonus. You're fine.
Liam: It was slim fast. Slim feast.
Matt: Slim feast!
Marisha: Slim feast!
Joe: Can I feed this thing a healing potion?
Matt: You may.
Ashley: I really thought I was going to roll two tens.
Joe: Greater? I think greater.
Matt: If you have, yeah--
Joe: I have a greater.
Matt: So that would be 4d4 plus four.
Ashley: I rolled the wrong, I actually rolled the wrong tens.
Joe: That's nine; that's not great.
Sam: No, that's not great. We'll figure it out later.
Taliesin: We know Lay on Hands and some such.
Joe: Well, I have them, I just don't want to blow them.
Travis: Wait. You can't die?
Sam: Is that true? Wait, when did he say he couldn't die?
Travis: Well, he said, like, "She thought I was dead, but my queen--"
Sam: He said he would fight like a man who is dead, but he wasn't--
Taliesin: It was a metaphor, Grog. It was a metaphor.
Sam: Oh, no, you're right.
Liam: Do you mean actually; have you died?
Joe: It's kind of a colloquialism for religious folk. You know what I mean? Like, I hit a death save.
Laura: Oh, tight, tight, tight, tight.
Sam: I touch him to see if he's real.
Joe: I blow smoke out of my nostrils, like a little fire.
Sam: Kind of squishy. Really soft.
Travis: Thank god he's wearing that armor, huh?
Sam: Yeah. Pudgy.
Joe: I'm going to pump 30, then, back into this gloomstalker. Plus the nine. So there was, what, 51 that came off?
Matt: 50 points of damage were taken off.
Joe: 50 points, so I put 39 back on, so that's 11 off.
Matt: Yep, you got it.
Travis: When do we want to do Freedom of Movement stuff? Not yet?
Liam: That's short term.
Laura: Right before. That only lasts for an hour. Here's the thing. Do we go for the outer walls to take out the shield first? Probably. Once we go in, we're going in.
Sam: The outer walls of the city?
Laura: Of Thar Amphala, yes.
Sam: How are we going to take down entire walls without being--
Laura: We don't have to take out the walls. We have to break a couple of the crystals.
Marisha: Yeah, those crystals that we started to break when we were in the Shadowfell.
Taliesin: If just do a hit and run, we can cause so much chaos that all of these gloomstalkers are going to be busy dealing with everything in the air.
Laura: Hey! You remember our old plan of just set everything on fire? Let's set everything on fire!
Marisha: Yeah! In fact, that's actually a brilliant plan. We could disable a crystal, maybe I could light a signal, distract people. While they're distracted, we make it to the next one.
Taliesin: And as long as we're close to that one, they don't know that we're here. They can't see us.
Joe: What are these crystals?
Sam: We don't know where these crystals are!
Taliesin: They're all around the outer wall.
Laura: We saw them when we were in the city before.
Marisha: Yeah, in the Shadowfell. Remember, we jabbed at one, and decided against it.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: If we break these crystals, this could help--
Marisha: Everything.
Travis: Does anyone know that you're here?
Joe: Vecna. The female wizardess.
Laura: She knows?
Joe: And the Death Knight.
Taliesin: And if they've been watching, he just vanished. We should run now.
Joe: But they thought I was dead. They left me for dead.
Laura: So they don't necessarily know you're in the city.
Joe: I think they'd be surprised to see me.
Laura: Okay. All right, cool.
Marisha: Let's move.
Laura: Okay, stealthily, let's try to make it to the outer wall so that we can cut out some of these crystals.
Matt: Okay. First off, make a perception check as you glance out to see how close you are to the nearby wall.
Laura: 30.
Matt: 30, okay. You notice you're on a different part of the city than you were previously. If the city's moving forward, if you consider the direction that the titan is traversing forward, you guys were to the back and right side of Thar Amphala. Like a clock; if twelve o'clock is where it was traveling, you guys were around four or five o'clock. Looking now at the layout of the city, you're closer to 11 and 12 right now. And you're maybe about 200 feet from the nearest wall. You can see the curvature of the dome is pretty striking from your current position. And you can see the pulses, the waves. Imagine like a reverse waterfall of energy shooting upward. And every now and then, there's a burst.
Laura: Does it look like there's an area that the pulses are brighter, along the wall?
Matt: Yes. You do see the pulses aren't universal. There are certain locations, about six of them throughout the city, that you occasionally see them (bursting), and they spread out.
Laura: Are we close to one of those pulses?
Matt: You can maneuver there. It's not directly behind you, but you can eventually get to that location, yeah.
Laura: Okay. I see where one of the crystals is; let's move towards that.
Taliesin: We'll get Grog to smash it to smithereens.
Travis: I smash (stumbling) mitheens.
Ashley: You do. To mitheens.
Travis: (drawn out) Mitheens.
Taliesin: You're so good at punching walls.
Matt: All right. I would like you all to make a stealth check. Are you all walking on foot? Are you taking the gloomstalker?
Joe: I'm on top of the gloomstalker.
Sam: Is it walking?
Matt: Yeah.
Joe: It's walking right now?
Matt: It's currently walking, unless you want to hover with it.
Sam: You got to stay within 60 feet of us? 30 feet?
Matt: 60 feet.
Joe: I'd like to hover.
Matt: As you guys are staying lowkey, Arkhan is currently riding against the back of this gloomstalker as it's hovering in the air above. And the stealth check you're going to be rolling is going to be to see whether or not anything notices you on the back of a gloomstalker. The gloomstalker is not going to register on the radar of any of the current watching creatures, because it's part of its posse for the moment.
Joe: So is this with disadvantage for plate armor, or not?
Matt: I would say no, because it isn't a movement-based stealth check; you're just trying to stay still.
Joe: With the bonus.
Laura: Plus ten.
Joe: Love it. Good. 31.
Matt: Shit, all right. You're just clutching the exterior of it, trying to stay low. You're pulling into your armor like a turtle shell, since it is black. And using that to try and blend into its form
Sam: And can we kind of stay under the shadow of the gloomstalker?
Matt: You guys can move along.
Sam: Oh, 29 and 20.
Taliesin: 34.
Matt: Keyleth?
Marisha: 32.
Matt: Vax?
Liam: I rolled a four, so it's 37.
Matt: Fucking rogue.
Laura: 29.
Ashley: 18.
Travis: What?
Ashley: No, I did it wrong.
Travis: Oh. 19.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: His head has muscles.
Matt: Okay. A five and a six. All right, so. As you guys begin to maneuver through the streets, dodging from building to building, on the outskirts of Thar Amphala, thankfully, the streets are a little more sparse on the edges. You also notice as you're traversing, and this is interesting.
Joe: It's his head shot.
Laura: I would have liked if he had signed it.
Joe: It's Arkhan's commercial head shot.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, yeah. You need to print one in black and white.
Liam: (deep voice) If I'm good at reproductions.
Joe: This is, like, work in the office look.
Marisha: (laughing) That's such an L.A. joke, yeah.
Matt: All right, so. As you guys are maneuvering, Vax, Vex, and Keyleth as well. You have the high passive perception of the group. You notice that the droves of undead that have been clogging the streets of this city, and the clusters of cultists that have been running about busily, running from location to location, with some work on their midst. The undead, who were just scattered and wandering, are now unified and moving in patterns. They're now being driven by some intent. Whereas once they were just scattered amongst, and in a holding pattern, now they're maneuvering with solid purpose, away from the sides of the wall, and the shields, which enables you to go relatively unnoticed. But you're seeing them now, gathering towards similar tunnels to the one you came up in. You can see dozens and dozens of zombies and skeletons, and the occasional robed cultist, both warrior and mage alike, all beginning to make their way down into the titan, at various points in the city.
Sam: Making their way down.
Taliesin: They're going to go attack the city.
Laura: We got to get these shields down so that Vasselheim can actually have--
Marisha: A fighting chance.
Liam: A fighting chance.
Travis: Let's find the crystals.
Marisha: All right, let's do it.
Matt: As you guys make your way around the edge of the city, you follow these pulses. They occur every two minutes or so, so you have to keep an eye out for it until one happens and then reorient your direction, but you taking point on this, you lead everybody, darting from place to place. Man. Rolling shitty-ass perception.
Travis: That's okay, Matt.
Matt: That's okay for you guys.
Travis: Let it happen.
Matt: Eventually, you come around one cluster of exterior buildings. It looks to be what was once a manor, that was converted to a fortress. Like a small exterior fortress to this inner circle of Thar Amphala. You curve around and there you see, familiar to you from once before, the walls that surround the exterior of this inner sanctum of Thar Amphala, and the basis of this field that contains the entirety of the city. Looking at the wall, you can already feel the dangerous vibration of this field being so close. There's this violent hum to the air, that with each pulse hits this certain frequency of sound that causes your ear to tweak just a hint. And you can see violent waves of green-blue magical energy, (pulsing) up the side of the wall, like a very powerful reverse waterfall. Shooting up, to gather and maintain this field. You cannot see the crest. The crest was visible from the outside of the wall. And the energy field is being produced on the outside of the wall. You're on the inside of it. But you can gather the base location of where this burst is happening to get an idea of loosely where it might be.
Laura: How thick is the wall?
Matt: You don't know.
Laura: And we saw the crest before because there was a doorway in the outer wall.
Matt: Correct. Yes.
Laura: Is there any kind of doorway around us?
Matt: You glance over to where the door was, below the crest, before, and you can see the opposite side of a door, currently, yes. It is shut. And appears to be made of hard wood with-- It's iron bar reinforced crosshatch.
Liam: Well, we can try the door, and then if that doesn't work, Grog can make a new one.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Let me check out the door.
Travis: I'm not really so keen on making doors, as opposed to knocking them down. I'm a craftsman. All right. I'm just, me.
Liam: I'm going to check and see if the door is trapped.
Laura: How are you with doors?
Joe: Pretty good.
Travis: Yeah!
Joe: Yeah!
Travis: Sh!
Taliesin: Sh!
Liam: 26.
Matt: Thankfully only rolled a nine.
Liam: 26 for investigation on the door.
Matt: The door is locked, but it is not trapped.
Liam: All right. Let's open it up.
Joe: I hand Grog some jerky from my pouch. Hungry?
Travis: Oh, fuck yeah. Don't share it.
Liam: 28.
Matt: 28, okay. So the door (clicks). And it's interesting, as you put your lockpicks in to feel the tumblers, you can feel the metal vibrating. Like the entire door is just (buzzes). And as you hit it, and the door swings open, almost like something's been pushing it on the opposite side. It swings open and slams on the inside of the frame, and there you're looking at a wall of violent green arcane energy. (whoosh) Coasting by-- Actually, this is blasting downward right now, because the threshold crest, as you recall, was above the doorway, in the wall.
Laura: Can we see it? Like above the doorway?
Matt: No, it's flush.
Laura: It's like on the other side?
Matt: It's on the other side and up on the wall. And currently where the door opens, there is violent magical energy slamming down.
Laura: Do you think it's possible to, like, punch up on the archway and knock the crystal down?
Liam: I pick up a rock about that big, walk ten feet back, and throw it at the energy.
Matt: It hits the field, and there's a violent flash in that section, about a foot radius around where it was, and the rock shoots past you. Make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Ooh, that's not good. 16.
Matt: 16? Strange. Wow! That's the first time you've failed a dex save in a long time!
Liam: Yeah, I rolled a three.
Matt: Oh, thank god.
Laura: So happy about it.
Marisha: You are fallible.
Matt: You take six points of bludgeoning damage. That's a d4 plus two. But it literally pelts you in the side of jaw and the neck, and you turn around and feel it. And you can feel the pulsing of the blood begin to flow into the bruise that's going to be there tomorrow.
Liam: I literally just got choked to death 18 hours ago, so I'm not sweating it. What're we going to do?
Taliesin: Grog? Let's start drilling up.
Laura: Try punching up.
Sam: All right, but if we interfere with that forcefield and it somehow hits us, we're going to be hurting.
Travis: Oh, yeah. Not only should we back up a little bit, except for me, we should also have an area that we're going to run to, right? Because I'm sure this will bring the noise.
Marisha: Is there a house nearby?
Laura: Is there a house nearby?
Matt: There's about a 20 foot gap between the wall and any nearby building, and there is the large, fortress-like manor that you saw earlier. I mean, I say fortress-like manor; it's not a huge house. It's two story and a decent size. But it looks like it's been reinforced in the walls, like somebody had designed for it to be a place to hold off some sort of a stand, probably from the war with Pelor's army, long ago. That's the closest thing to this doorway.
Laura: Okay, we can get ready to run there. However, we're staying within 60 feet of you while you're punching.
Travis: Arkhan's going to stay, just in case it needs, like, a double--
Laura: A double punch.
Travis: Yeah. You know.
Matt: It's probably more than 20 feet, actually; it's probably like 30, 40 feet.
Laura: 30 feet away?
Matt: Yeah.
Joe: How many gloomstalker riders are in the sky above?
Matt: I mean, overall? Make a perception check.
Joe: Okay. Yikes. Eight.
Matt: There's a lot of them.
Travis: Sky's clear.
Matt: Like, there's a lot of them by Entropis.
Joe: Gloomstalker shit hits me in the face.
Matt: Yeah. But you do notice that there's-- where previously there wasn't, there's a cloud gathering at the top of this dome funneling down onto Entropis.
Travis: Actually. Well, hold on. You got to stay here, right? Because of the--
Laura: That's what I said; I'm staying within 60 feet of you.
Travis: I would like to rage.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And I go  Tiger Uppercut! and I just punch the roof of it.
Matt: Go ahead and make an attack.
Liam: Destroy.
Travis: Yeah, destroy. 23.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage, d4 plus your strength modifier.
Travis: That is 15. Just by itself. So.
Matt: Times two. That's 30 points of damage with a punch.
Sam: One Punch Man.
Matt: Fucking siege, man. That's good. As you slam into it, you guys watch as, right above the doorway, in the door frame, the entire wall-- Just a spider crack shoots up about 20-- The wall is about 30 feet tall or so. Actually, probably not. It's about 20 or so feet. And it cracks up to the very top, and you watch as large parts of it break off and fall, but it hasn't completely collapsed. But it's sustained some very serious damage.
Taliesin: One more and we run. And take cover.
Travis: One more?
Laura: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: I also need you to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw, please.
Liam: I'm going to walk up behind him--
Joe: He's within ten feet of me. He gets a plus four.
Liam: And plus two from me.
Matt: Awesome. Well, they don't stack.
Liam: Doesn't stack?
Matt: The plus four is what you get.
Liam: Then I'm backing the fuck up.
Matt: From the aura.
Joe: Aura of Protection. Provided by Tiamat!
Travis: 24.
Matt: 24? All right. You suffer-- it would be 14 points of force damage, reduced to seven and you're pushed back 20 feet, but you're not knocked prone. So as you slam into it, there's a burst of arcane energy out of that section of the doorway and wall that slams into you. You go spinning past, spiraling, and you catch yourself on the ground about 20 feet away, in the middle of the open there. Catch yourself.
Liam: Feet skidding, like a Jackie Chan film.
Matt: Still don't fucking see you, okay.
Taliesin: It's a very loud--
Matt: I'm rolling so shitty today.
Sam: Yeah, well. You're going to roll well when it counts.
Joe: I'll take a shot.
Matt: You take a shot as well?
Joe: Yeah.
Matt: All right. So as Grog spins back and catches himself, you walk up to this doorframe. With your axe in hand?
Joe: Yeah.
Matt: Go for it. Roll an attack.
Joe: Okay, that's going to be a 19.
Matt: 19 hits.
Laura: 19 hits a wall!
Matt: It's an AC of 18 on the wall.
Sam: The wall has an AC of 18?
Taliesin: The wall has my armor class. That's really horrifying.
Joe: With my axe--
Matt: It's solid!
Laura: It's a magic wall.
Joe: That's going to be 20 points of damage.
Matt: 20 points of damage, that'll do it. So as Grog catches up, and look up, you watch as Arkhan rushes forward, and with a giant leap, cleaves the axe into the stone. As it does, the archway collapses downward. First off, make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: I'm standing there like a catcher, ready.
Joe: Con save? All right. Not big money. This is not. It's going to be more whammy than big money. That's a nine on a con save.
Matt: That's not going to do it. Okay. You suffer 16 points of force damage, and you get blown back into Grog's direction and knocked prone. So you catch, but the impact actually pushes you back five feet, and he falls face first on the ground. There's actually a dig in the ground, like a groove where the impact is. At that point, as you watch the wall crumble and collapse, you see, suddenly dislodged from its position, the about two and half foot wide threshold crest stone that is embedded in the wall there crumples downward and falls out of its space. As it does, there's a series of bursts of vibrant arcane energy that shoot up the wall, causing this side of the wall to glow exponentially brighter than the rest of the shield. At which point, like a large slice of pie, one sixth of the dome falls inward, and for the first time since you've arrived, you see the non-filtered sky above of the darkened clouds that have completely encased the upper atmosphere of Othanzia. You also glance past where it crumbled, as the city is at a slight angle forward, the way it's placed on the front of the titan, and you look down and see, immediately around, the familiar sight of the Vasper Timberlands that surround the exterior of Vasselheim. And there ahead, not more than maybe a few miles off, you can assume from this distance, you see the singular mountain pillar that Vasselheim is built around, and the outer wall in sight.
Marisha: I don't know. Do we keep going? Do we try to get down some more?
Joe: Alderaan is in sight!
Travis: We're coming around that planet.
Taliesin: We're going to run.
Matt: Everyone make a perception check, please.
Travis: I got this, guys; don't worry.
Joe: Famous last words.
Marisha: Opal die, don't fuck me!
Laura: 27?
Taliesin: 27.
Sam: 20.
Joe: Was this passive perception? Because if it was, then I rolled a natural 20 of passive perception. The natural one.
Marisha: 18.
Travis: Three.
Ashley: 12.
Matt: Okay. Those who got over 20  There's this small victory, and this moment of joy, and accomplishment, that is immediately washed over by the realization of how close you are to the city. The two hours that you were gone, still better than a full rest, however, has put you within proximity of the city. And you hear this familiar, large, airy, reedy, stretched screech in the distance. You glance over, and you see in the distance, barreling down in your direction, a skeletal dragon familiar to you not far before.
Marisha: Move, move, move!
Sam: I don't think we're going to be able to move.
Liam: We can hide, though.
Travis: We're going to hide?
Liam: We can't run.
Laura: At least get in this building, there was that encased part, right?
Sam: We're all in the same enclosed space?
Liam: Ring.
Matt: There's a tower-like structure, and then there's that building that was reinforced to be a--
Travis: If he spots us, we scatter and spread, but.
Taliesin: We are not going to scatter and spread. We're going to stay together no matter what.
Laura: We're going to stay within 60 feet of each other.
Taliesin: There is no scattering.
Laura: Within 60 feet of us. It's super important!
Matt: If you all are rushing into this building, everyone make a stealth check, please.
Joe: Is this a hovering stealth check?
Matt: If you want to still stay out in the open, that is up to you. They're all darting into a building, so the choice is yours. You can stay with your beast.
Joe: But he's one of them. So I can kind of leave him outside somewhat.
Matt: He is. You're on top of him.
Joe: Yeah, I am.
Matt: So. Do you want to try and blend into his form?
Joe: I'd love to. I think that's what I want to do.
Matt: Okay. Then make a stealth check.
Laura: If you're within 30 feet of me, you still get plus ten.
Matt: You would not be within 30 feet of her once she enters the building. So.
Marisha: Can you do the cool John Wayne thing, and go underneath of him, and hang on his belly from the saddle?
Joe: Yeah. That's what I'm trying to do.
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Joe: 28.
Matt: As this happens, you immediately climb down to the underbelly of the gloomstalker. To maintain hold on it, because its physical form-- and it's interesting, now that you've been this close to it, and you've been wrestling it, you feel it's partially corporeal. There's something about its physicality that is almost gelatinous. Like it's made up of a combination of shadow and physical will. And as you clutch into it, your fingers dig and begin to seep into it, almost like a cluster of tar. But it holds you fast, and you're there underneath. Make a stealth check, without disadvantage, but this will--
Laura: Is it a boy or a girl gloomstalker?
Joe: I'm close enough to know.
Matt: Gloomstalkers are actually sexless. They have no natural--
Joe: (whispers) It seems to be asexual. Oh, do I have a little--?
Matt: You do not.
Joe: (groans)
Laura: Oh no.
Joe: This is going to be an 11.
Matt: Okay. Good to know. The rest of you guys?
Joe: That was a shitty roll.
Travis: Oh, 16. No, 18.
Laura: Add ten.
Travis: I did.
Ashley: 22.
Laura: 33.
Liam: 46.
Marisha: 27.
Taliesin: 30.
Sam: 19 and 30.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: No, 43.
Matt: Okay. As you guys all dart into this building, you all quietly listen outside, as you maintain, hovering in place. The skeletal dragon (croaking) swoops down. As its wings catch itself, the wind billows through the space in the center here. You can see a bunch of the dust and pebbles and loose rubble that's been built up around here, and the wall that was left behind just gets kicked up, and spins a brief dust devil in the vicinity. The skeletal dragon there, still flying. Make a perception check.
Laura: But we're within 60 feet of him, right? You said we weren't within 30.
Matt: He's kept relatively close to the building.
Laura: Okay.
Joe: So I didn't get the plus ten.
Laura: No.
Matt: No.
Laura: But you're still hidden from view from Vecna.
Joe: Perception. That's not terrible. That's a 16 perception.
Matt: Okay. As soon as the dragon gets close-- and you've seen it flying about, up in the stratosphere area of this dome before-- you can see there are still bits of flesh dangling off of the bones. And it is a familiar-colored flesh.
Laura: (gasps)
Taliesin: Oh, no.
Sam: Oh, no.
Matt: Whereas you and your adventuring party had traveled here before, this risen dragon form seems to have been torn from the corpse of the mount that brought you to this city.
Joe: Oh, no.
Matt: You see, as the skull of its body, its eyes crackling bright blue-green energy, there on the back of this dragon, you see two humanoids standing on its back. You see a dark armored male with pale skin, with a well-kept beard and short hair, with his arm around the waist of a female, who's currently clutching onto the back of its bones. You can see the woman, in a red robe that's being blown up, her hair bound in the front, wild behind, as she has a necklace bauble that hangs around her neck, crackling blue-green energy. As she has her hand forward, she glances around at the space, angrily. "What!?" (heavy breathing) Looks over at the gloomstalker. "Oh. What have we here? Is this your doing?"
Sam: Maybe she doesn't see you. Maybe she's talking to the gloomstalker.
Joe: I control the gloomstalker and make him screech.
Matt: (screeches) "Adorable. Wouldn't you say so, honey?" And the man behind her goes, "Oh, quite. Well, I'm a fan of taking thorns out of my side. Is it time we do a bit of surgery, darling?" And the woman goes, "But of course. Oh, how I've missed you." And she nuzzles into his neck a bit, and turns around. The dragon lands onto the tower across the way, facing in the direction of the gloomstalker, and it inhales. And you watch as it begins to breathe in, all of the shards of bone matter that have been scattered across the streets of the city begin to whip up and spiral into its ribcage, like a blender. As it pulls back (roar) and as the dragon's mouth opens it releases a blast of bone shards that arc out in front of you. You and the gloomstalker, each, I need--
Sam: Into the earring I say, this is our chance, we leave him as a distraction and we go. They don't know we're here, we can run!
Matt: You and the gloomstalker make a dexterity saving throw please.
Laura: But here's the thing, we're not going to have a better chance to get them away from Vecna. Should we attack them now?
Travis: Plus we have one extra ally. Two!
Laura: We can attack them now, away from Vecna.
Joe: You said dex save?
Matt: Correct.
Joe: I actually have an advantage on dex saves that I can see.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: Maybe wait for them to land.
Sam: Are they landed?
Laura: Are they landed?
Sam: Are they hovering?
Matt: They've landed on a tower right across from the building where you guys are.
Laura: How far away is that?
Matt: Let me show you. (cheering)
Travis: (shouting) Oh this is it! Oh no!
Sam: (airhorn sounds)
Ashley: (airhorn sounds)
Laura: Oh my god.
Marisha: So wait, is it Vorugal? Is it Thordak?
Liam: No it's his mount.
Marisha: It's your old mount?
Joe: I rode in on a white dragon named Obakala. (groaning)
Taliesin: (shouting) What? No!
All: Ooh.
Laura: And they're on this?
Sam: How did you know we would be here?
Laura: How did he know we would be here?
Matt: I had a few possibilities.
Laura: Oh, it's okay, Briarwoods down.
Marisha: Bony dragon!
Ashley: They're dead! We did it!
Matt: If that was the way it went you guys would have been dead a long time ago.
Marisha: Wait, did you put a cool little acrylic thing on there to make them mountable?
Matt: I did.
Marisha: That's pretty dope.
Matt: Currently riding your gloomstalker.
Joe: I'm on top of my dude?
Matt: Yep.
Joe: Thank you John Paul and everyone at Gale Force Nine for my sweet-ass mini that just arrived from the UK today!
Laura: So we're in this building?
Joe: Well I was kind of on the bottom, but we'll let it--
Matt: Yeah well I'm putting it there because that's the range of the blast right there.
Laura: Shit. Maybe he rolled really well on his dex save.
Matt: All right, so you guys, let's go ahead and figure out your placement here. You guys rushed into this building here.
Ashley: There's a window.
Laura: There's windows! Okay. Oh my god.
Matt: You guys rushed around and into this side, so you guys were in the base floor here.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Where do you want to be?
Laura: Can I run upstairs and look in that window?
Matt: Sure. So I'll put you at the window there.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Who else is placed where?
Marisha: I'll be downstairs.
Sam: There's no way to see out downstairs?
Liam: There's no windows on this side.
Sam: There seems to be some windows on this side, right?
Matt: There's a couple of small slits, but they're facing out this way.
Liam: And then would you say we could use the attic windows? It's up to you.
Matt: That's more for flavor. There would be no attic windows. It's been reinforced, so there's been placed armor on the bottom, the only windows that are available are the ones up top and even then only have arrow slits.
Ashley: Because we can't see around there, I'm going to use it as a reference photo.
Matt: Fair enough. Vax, are you up with your sister?
Liam: Yes I am.
Laura: And Trinket is out.
Matt: All right, so you bamf Trinket out.
Laura: I bamf Trinket out but he's down by Grog.
Matt: Okay, we'll put Grog-- we'll say that you were probably down in this building being as quiet as you can. Percival, Scanlan, Keyleth, Pike.
Ashley: I'm behind my boy Grog. My boy Blue!
Taliesin: There's that other window.
Matt: Up on the second level.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So we'll put you up there.
Ashley: Guys, do not worry! We have an extra plus two to our hit points! It's going to be fine!
Travis: Most amazing 2d10 roll ever.
Matt: All right, Scanlan.
Sam: I mean I'm in there somewhere.
Matt: I need a second Scanlan.
Marisha: Is Keyleth up top? Keyleth's up top, okay.
Sam: I think I would be near the window where I could kind of see-- what's your name, Ar-Can?
Joe: Arkhan.
Sam: Arkhan?
Joe: Yeah.
Matt: We'll say for the purposes of this--
Sam: He can just move with me, it's fine.
Matt: This will be tiny Scanlan.
Sam: Sure.
Matt: Scanlan where are you?
Sam: Near the downstairs windows where I can see--
Laura: This is so intense!
Matt: Right here there's small slits, they're all armored up.
Sam: Oh they're armored up, all right, so then I'm upstairs.
Matt: All right, okay. We'll put that there. So we'll say for the purposes of this you guys would be--
Laura: I can't believe we're fighting the fucking Briarwoods again!
Taliesin: That's going to be fun.
Joe: That's not the Death Knight?
Matt: No.
Joe: It's her dude?
Matt: Sure. So.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's Lord Briarwood.
Matt: Now that we're set, thank you for your patience. So what did you roll, you and your gloomstalker?
Joe: Well, me get not-- him not-- it not so good. I had a 27. Gloomstalker 11. I'm trying to be-- give the proper gender-specific...
Sam: They.
Joe: They?
Sam: They.
Joe: Rolled an 11. Well, actually no. Wait, hold on. They would benefit from my Aura of Protection.
Matt: That's true.
Joe: So they would have a 15, I would have a 27.
Matt: That's with their plus six? The gloomstalker gets a plus six dexterity saving throw.
Joe: Oh, plus six! I'm looking at the dex modifier which is plus three.
Matt: Right. Says under saving throws, dex plus six. Wait, does it? No, it's dex plus eight. Sorry.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: Take it.
Joe: So then, it-- they had a 20. I had a 27.
Matt: All right. You both succeeded on the save so you take half damage which is only 26 points of necrotic damage.
Taliesin: That's solid.
Matt: Sorry, piercing damage, not necrotic. So as the bone shards go slamming into each of you, that completes the dragon's turn. Now everybody please roll initiative. (groans)
Travis: Okay. Come on, come get some!
Laura: Oh god, oh god, oh god.
Joe: You said 60, Matt?
Matt: 26.
Joe: Yeah, I got that right for there. 26.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil!
Joe: Do I roll for the thing?
Matt: Yes, you would.
Joe: Separately of me.
Matt: Separately. I'll say for the ease of it let's make it on your turn. There's a lot going on here. All righty.
Laura: In-game hour, not this game hour.
Marisha: Right. No.
Matt: 25 to 20.
Travis: Thanks to Kas, 27.
Laura: Oh shit. 24 for me.
Matt: Right. 25 to 20? I just said that, right?
Laura: 24.
Matt: Yeah. 20 to 15?
Taliesin: 18.
Joe: 17.
Matt: Nice.
Joe: For me and they.
Travis: 18, 17?
Matt: 18, 17?
Joe: Yes, yep.
Marisha: Do you always do this or is this new for you?
Travis: I always do this.
Ashley: 15 for Pike.
Matt: Nice.
Joe: Is there a cricket in the studio or is that part of the sound effect?
Matt: No, that's in the studio.
Travis: It's just not that intense of a fight.
Matt: 15 to ten.
Sam: Ten.
Marisha: Yeah, you hear it?
Travis: Vax, what were you again?
Laura: 24.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Vax.
Laura: You were looking me in the eye when you said it.
Taliesin: Cricket's initiative is sadly 30.
Matt: Keyleth, what did you get?
Marisha: Six.
Sam: So did Scanlan Two.
Liam: Hateful eight.
Joe: So you roll separate initiatives for you and Scanlan 2?
Sam: No, this is new for me. This is new.
Matt: So is that everybody? I believe that's everybody.
Sam: Matt, just manage the ten people and three creatures on the field right now and you'll be fine.
Matt: I know. Be good. All right. First up first, Grog, it's you.
Travis: It's me. Already raging.
Matt: Yep, you're already raging.
Travis: Let's see, there's a window, right? Can I run upstairs?
Matt: You are now up with these assholes. Right there.
Travis: And I jump out the motherfucking window.
Matt: That you can. (heavy impact)
Travis: Is that my full 50?
Matt: I'd put that at about 35, I'd say. You've got 15 feet still.
Travis: Awesome. So I'm going to double dash with the spider boots that Percy gave me and I'm going to run up the tower and just go straight, yeah.
Matt: Well, one dash.
Travis: One dash.
Matt: So you get to the top of the tower and you are now base to base with the dragon.
Laura: Did you just fucking go father than 60 feet away from me?
Taliesin: No. Technically radius-wise--
Matt: Radius-wise he's close to you still.
Travis: Yeah, why you making me feel dumb?
Laura: Just remember that because it's a thing during battle. They could, but we don't know. We could kill them before he knows.
Joe: So that means if I get up next to this thing, I would be in range of this 60 feet?
Laura: You are within 60 feet right now.
Sam: Just do what you do. It's Vex's job to keep us in radius.
Joe: What bonus do I have?
Laura: That doesn't give you a bonus, it just keeps Vecna from seeing you.
Travis: Am I within melee of that skeleton dragon? The bone dragon?
Matt: You are within melee of the dragon.
Travis: Perfect. That's my turn.
Laura: The only way we're going to get the drop on him is if he doesn't actually know we're here.
Sam: He's going to know we're here. They're going to tell him.
Laura: We're going to kill them.
Travis: With my bonus action can I make it a frenzied rage?
Matt: You may. That's your turn, Grog. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I got an eight. I'm way at the bottom.
Laura: I had a 24.
Matt: All right, so Vex?
Laura: Can I lean out the window and attack?
Matt: You may.
Laura: Okay, I lean out the window, and can I see Delilah? Can I shoot at her?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: With my sharpshooter, she doesn't get any additional cover or anything. Okay, so I'm going to sharpshooter Delilah with one of my needle arrows that I've been hanging onto for a gajillion years. So that is a 25 to hit.
Matt: 25 to hit? Yeah, even with Shield, she couldn't stop that. That hits.
Laura: Yes! Okay. Good.
Sam: Is she aiming for the dragon?
Taliesin: No, Delilah.
Sam: Big D.
Laura: Is that sneak attack because she didn't know I was there, technically? Oh, Grog's standing right there!
Matt: Grog's in melee with the dragon. I'll say because she was not aware of you, they were only aware of him, it's sneak attack. It's not a crit; it's not a surprise attack, but you get sneak attack.
Laura: (counting) 31.
Matt: 31. All right, 31 points of damage.
Laura: Oh, no, 41 because I was sharpshootering.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And then that one definitely doesn't hit.
Ashley: But it wasn't in the thing.
Laura: I know, but it still was a roll.
Matt: What is it?
Laura: It's 17.
Matt: 17? Nope, that misses. As you lean through the window, you release the first arrow, and as Delilah's up there, both clutching the necklace and has her hand out with this wand, you hit her hand with the arrow. (snarls) Looks over and looks down at the window, right towards you, and there's a moment of recognition as she sees you. As you fire the second arrow, she dodges it and goes, "I remember you."
Laura: (scared noises) I'm going to use my bonus action to hide.
Matt: Okay, so you duck off to the side of the window.
Laura: Not that it matters, but I'm going to roll for stealth. That did nothing. 21? Nope, 31, because I still haven't cast Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Okay. Good to know. All right, that ends your turn. With that, it is now Delilah's turn. She rolled a 19 for initiative.
Laura: Okay, so it's Grog, Vex, Delilah.
Travis: I don't know where Vax is. I forgot his number.
Laura: He's eight. Percy what?
Travis: Percy, Arkhan, Pike.
Joe: It's Arkhan.
Travis: I get all names wrong.
Matt: All right, she is going to point her finger down at the wall where all of you guys are, and a thin green ray streaks out from her finger.
Laura: She's disintegrating the wall?
Matt: Seems to be.
Joe: I don't like the phone.
Travis: I know. When there are too many dice to roll, the phone comes out.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: I'm just confirming.
Travis: The deliverance of the death? The method chosen?
Matt: The size of the space that it can disintegrate. There we go.
Travis: We've got a dragonborn paladin. We're fine.
Liam: Could you ring up Tiamat and have her help with this dragon thing?
Matt: This entire wall right here.
Laura: That's true; you could turn the whole thing.
Matt: This entire wall is disintegrated in place and now reveals entirely Vex and Vax.
Laura: I'm like--
Matt: As she pulls her finger back and the wall turns to dust around you, you hear her say, "I'm sorry, honey, but no."
Laura: Oh, hello there. I didn't see you.
Ashley: Oh, hello!
Marisha: Oh, hello!
Matt: It is now the dragon's turn. Let's see if it gets its breath attack. It does regenerate. The dragon (wingbeats). You get an attack of opportunity.
Travis: I'll make it reckless.
Matt: I should have put tape on the bottom of them. That's my fault.
Sam: We have tape. We could get tape.
Marisha: Is there gaff tape in the house?
Laura: Man, I really wish we had some tape right now!
Marisha: I know there's a row of it back there.
Joe: Dear Tiamat  Send tape.
Laura: Did you get the attack?
Joe: Dear Tiamat  It's Arkhan. We need Scotch tape.
Travis: I believe it's Arkhan.
Matt: As the dragon (wingbeats), you get an attack of opportunity on the dragon.
Travis: It's a 34.
Matt: 34? That hits!
Marisha: Yeah, get that roll of gaffer tape.
Matt: Thank you kindly, Mr. Brian Foster.
Marisha: (mispronouncing) Brian Foster.
Brian: It's a janitor's keyring of tape.
Laura: Use the gaff tape. It's the best.
Joe: This thing is on the ground now?
Matt: It is hovering right above the ground. It's trying to get down into the space of the wall that's currently exposed. Please pass the tape over here? Okay. How much damage is that, Grog?
Travis: This dragon would be considered undead, yes?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: So with the sword's 2d10 slashing damage to undead, that's 32 points of damage.
Matt: 32 points of damage to the dragon. Nice. So as it swoops up, the dragon takes one arc with the blade, and as it streaks across, it slams into part of its foot, and you watch as the bone splinters upon impact with the Sword of Kas. As the dragon lands, it brings its head down into the gap where the opening is and arches forward. As it does, it fills the entirety of the space. It inhales a second time. You watch as all the bits of bone spiral up into it. It regenerated for the second time.
Sam: Is this an attack roll that it's about to make?
Matt: No, it's a saving throw on you guys' part. As it releases this torrent of bone shards and rock and whatever it can pull up into its chest and releases it, I need everybody in that room: both Scanlans, Keyleth, Percival--
Taliesin: Do I not have cover?
Matt: Cover's not going to help you on this, unfortunately. It fills the whole space.
Joe: Should've rode in on a horse.
Marisha: What are we making? Dex saves?
Matt: Dexterity saving throws, guys.
Marisha: This doesn't give us spell resist, right?
Sam: Scanlan Two is going to use Cutting Words to reduce the damage.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: That's all right. That's good.
Sam: Dex?
Matt: All right.
Sam: Scanlan One  18. Scanlan Two  25.
Matt: Both succeed. 18, barely.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: Succeeds.
Marisha: 17.
Matt: Barely missed it.
Liam: 26. Evasion means zero.
Laura: 31.
Matt: 31 succeeds. All righty. The only person to take full damage on this is Keyleth, right? Sorry. Double-checking on the bard ability Cutting Words.
Sam: Can reduce damage by d12.
Matt: Roll a d12.
Laura: On all of us?
Sam: Five. Five less.
Laura: That's good.
Matt: That is 49 points of piercing damage to you, Keyleth.
Marisha: 49!
Matt: The rest of you take 24.
Laura: That's minus the five?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Minus 49? I'm at 94.
Matt: It fills the space there, and you feel every ounce of exposed skin and flesh has been hit with a thousand needles. That ends its turn. Percival, you're up.
Taliesin: So I can gather my wits, there's an angry Delilah with a wand, clutching a weird thing around her neck. There's a Sylas with what I assume would be a brand new sword.
Matt: Probably.
Taliesin: And they're sitting about how many feet up on a dragon right now?
Matt: I'd say about 15 feet.
Taliesin: Let's have a little fun.
Ashley: Let's have a little fun.
Taliesin: All right. Oh, good, and I have an escape route. That'll do really nicely. This is going to be fun. I'm going to Bugs Bunny this lady. First thing I'm going to do is I'm going to take a shot--
Marisha: Don't look down.
Taliesin: Why?
Marisha: Never mind.
Taliesin: Oh, no. That was good. It took me a second. I'm going to take a shot with Animus. Boy, I'm nervous. I'm going to burn a point of grit, and I'm going to make her drop her wand.
Travis: You've got this. Focus in. You got it.
Matt: Roll for the attack.
Travis: Walk in the park.
Taliesin: That's a 31 to hit.
Matt: That'll hit.
Taliesin: Let's make her drop stuff. It's a strength saving throw.
Matt: Natural five. So as she's holding the wand out with the hand, (gunshot, grunts). She glances back, and as the smoking gun is there, she goes, "I certainly remember you."
Taliesin: I missed you, too, darling. I still do damage on that one, I believe.
Matt: Her hand is now covered in blood, and you can see one of the fingers looks heavily damaged.
Liam: Grog does not count in melee of the dracolich, right? It's just toys.
Matt: Grog is not in melee.
Taliesin: That's nine points of damage, plus five points of psychic, so 14.
Matt: Okay. 14 points. Got it.
Taliesin: For my next trick, I'm going to burn another point of grit. Let's push Sylas ten feet. Another 31 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: So let's take a little damage and do a little psychic. I do not like this die, I'm getting rid of it. It's only nine points of damage plus two points of psychic.
Matt: So 11 to Sylas.
Taliesin: So now Sylas has to move ten feet back.
Matt: No save right?
Taliesin: No save.
Matt: He gets blasted off the back of the dragon.
All: Yes!
Taliesin: (Woody Woodpecker laugh)
Travis: I thought it was Bugs Bunny, but you did Woody Woodpecker.
Taliesin: Woody Woodpecker certainly has more shade.
Joe: Is this creature under control to the point where someone takes damage and has to make a control save?
Taliesin: We don't know.
Marisha: I mean if it used to be yours--
Joe: It was mine.
Marisha: I don't know.
Joe: But it's not anymore.
Laura: Now it's dead.
Ashley: Maybe you can try to get through to it.
Matt: So he gets blown off and lands prone on the ground.
Taliesin: For my next one, let's push Delilah ten feet for my final trick. That's a 28 to hit.
Matt: Shit, that hits.
Taliesin: Sorry, man. It's my best trick and I burned a lot of it. 15 points of damage plus four points of psychic plus ten feet. Take some fall damage.
Matt: Put her behind the dragon. Actually both should be behind the dragon.
Laura: Did they take damage from falling?
Matt: They did. They both took 2d6 each, five points of bludgeoning damage each.
Taliesin: So for the rest of it I'm going to use a bonus action to run a heal. I'm going to give myself 19 points back. I'm going to run downstairs. I'm heading towards that back door.
Matt: That ends your turn, Percival. Arkhan, you're up.
Joe: I would like to rage.
Travis: Did you rage?
Joe: Yes! (cheering)
Liam: Sorry audio team.
Sam: The testosterone in his group just went from a half to one.
Matt: Did you say you went into a frenzied rage earlier?
Travis: I did.
Matt: Okay.
Joe: Now, question. If I fly past the dragon to Delilah do I give the dragon an attack of opportunity?
Matt: Yes, you would.
Joe: I have to go through this thing. I'm going to fly the gloomstalker right up to this thing. Gloomstalker pulls into range and it makes two attacks on the undead Obakala.
Matt: Go for it.
Joe: Oh, terrible. Actually terrible. That's terrible. So that's going to be a 13 and natural one.
Matt: Both miss, unfortunately. Its claws streak out in front of it and unfortunately scrape against the bone to no effect. But you have your turn.
Joe: Now it's me.
Laura: That's an awesome-- Is that your Wyrmwood box?
Joe: This is mine, yes. They do those specials. Those one of a kinds that you can buy.
Laura: Oh, oh well. (laughter)
Taliesin: Next campaign.
Ashley: I have an idea.
Joe: So I get advantage on my attacks because I'm raging. This is the first time I've ever raged.
Matt: If you're going reckless attacks you can.
Joe: Reckless frenzied rage.
Matt: Then yes you can.
Joe: Yes. Okay, great.
Matt: You're going frenzied rage as opposed to regular rage?
Joe: Frenzied does-- Yes.
Travis: You have to hold it.
Joe: Hold? Oh because I'm not.
Matt: He used his bonus action to rage.
Joe: I used the bonus to rage in the first place.
Matt: Right.
Joe: Great! That first one is going to be a 33 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Ashley: Yes!
Joe: And this thing is undead?
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Yas, Queen Tiamat!
Joe: I'm going to pump a 3rd-level Divine Smite into it. Which is-- bear with me, now.
Travis: We don't do math fast ever.
Joe: 2d8 for the axe. 2d8 for 1st-level Divine Smite. Three more for--
Matt: 2nd, 3rd-level and undead. Correct.
Ashley: All of it!
Travis: Dump it, dude.
Liam: Unload.
Joe: So that's seven.
Sam: Math! (laughter)
Joe: It's going to be 49.
Matt: 49 points of damage on the first hit. So as you rush up and the Gloomstalker is scratching towards it, you rush with a giant arc. You watch as Fane-Eater's blade springs forth these darkened spray of colors, red, green, black. Every chromatic dragon's power thrust into the blade as you slam it into the undead dragon. Watching bones splinter and break from the blast of dark energy.
Joe: Love it. Second attack.
Matt: Go for it.
Joe: That's a good one too. That's going to be 29. Same thing, 3rd-level Divine Smite, 7d8. (counting) 47.
Laura: Kill that dragon.
Matt: As you pull the axe back you arc a secondary time. This time with the sound of a union of four different dragon cries, the fifth one being your own. As you slam the axe a second time, hitting the edge of its clavicle, it carves through and breaks. You can see part of the bones shatter and reform but still broken and not in the same way. It's a serious round.
Joe: Just a hint, a tiny hint, of remorse for having to kill this thing that I helped raise.
All: Aw.
Laura: That'd be like if I had to fight undead Trinket.
Travis: Legendary action incoming.
Matt: Sylas Briarwood is going to move his speed. Would you hand me Sylas, please?
Taliesin: He's prone.
Matt: He's prone, so has half it. He moves through. He gets partway through the dragon, we'll say. So he's about there. That ends your turn?
Marisha: Sylas is up and moving?
Taliesin: Sylas is up and moving.
Matt: End of your turn?
Joe: That's all I got.
Matt: All right. Sylas' turn. Sylas, seeing you come up and destroy the dragon, grins, climbs up the side of the dragon, jumps onto its thigh and jumps in the air towards you, holding a giant blackened greataxe in his hand. (groans) He's going to go ahead and make a strike at you. Oh, you know what? No. He's not going to. Sylas instead, axe in one hand, grabs the side of the skeletal ribcage, hanging off, looks up at you. "You seem rather strong." And looks you dead in the eyes. I need you to make a wisdom saving throw.
Laura: No! Oh my god no! Do not get turned!
Travis: Does he have advantage on wisdom something?
Laura: No, he doesn't because he didn't have the feast.
Sam: Can I Cutting Words?
Matt: You already used your reaction, buddy.
Sam: One of us has.
Matt: It's true.
Sam: Scanlan Prime steps up.
Matt: Cutting Words only-- You can't give a bonus to somebody's saving throw.
Sam: Okay, then never mind.
Matt: You can reduce an enemy's saving throw.
Sam: Got it.
Matt: Through Mythcarver.
Joe: Straight up roll. Here we go. Natural 20! (screaming)
Matt: Oh shit.
Travis: In the clutch.
Joe: I stare him right in the eyes. What would have happened?
Matt: He would've charmed you and you would've had to start fighting them.
Travis: No!
Marisha: No!
Matt: As he stares at you, you feel this cold presence consume the back of your mind. And you feel drawn to him. It's this force of charisma and drive, and as you begin to lean forward towards it you feel this (thump) in your holy symbol and as you glance you break the gaze for a second and look down. And you see the multi-colored fury of Tiamat reach up and block and obscure the vision from him. And as the flames burn off you look up and the presence is gone. And he looks at you with a frustrated glance.
Joe: Yes! Rage!
Matt: He's going to use the rest of his movement to dart back around the side of the tower.
Taliesin: How much movement does he have left?
Matt: He used a legendary action to get up and get his movement, then on his turn he got his movement.
Taliesin: All right. No, that's a good use of a legendary action.
Matt: That brings us to Pike.
Ashley: Can I get upstairs? Stay hidden somewhere's enough?
Matt: Sure. You get to about where the twins are.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Beacon of Hope. Choose everyone that I see.
Matt: Everyone within 30 feet that you can see gets affected. That you can see, does it say?
Ashley: Choose any number of creatures within range.
Matt: Which is 30 feet?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: You'd be able to see Percival down there.
Ashley: I can see Grog.
Matt: Grog is farther than 30 feet.
Laura: Can you see Arkhan?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay, good.
Matt: Arkhan's in direct vision.
Laura: What does this do, again?
Ashley: You have advantage on wisdom saving throws and death saving throws. I'm also, as a bonus action, going to cast Sanctuary on Vex.
Matt: Sanctuary is a bonus action?
Ashley: It's a bonus action.
Laura: What does that do? Okay, okay.
Matt: Sanctuary means that if something tries to attack you it has to make a wisdom saving throw to see if it does so or not.
Travis: It's what Earthbreaker did.
Matt: End your turn, Pike?
Ashley: Am I able to get hidden around the wall?
Matt: Your movement would've gotten you just up to the stairs at that point because you had to climb up it. At the end of that turn, swooping down, you hear two impacts on the roof above you. You hear the growling, tearing sound as the long dry rotten wooden rooftops that are above you guy get pulled open by two gloomstalkers that've joined the fray.
Travis: Toothless?
Taliesin: Do they count as undead?
Matt: They do not count as undead.
Ashley: Is the roof off of it?
Matt: Now the roof is open. Its damaged bits and parts of it are fallen inward. You guys can move around but they have visual on you, but that's all they can do this turn. It took their full movement and action to break in. That's going to end their turn. Scanlan, you're up. Scanlan One.
Sam: Scanlan One turns to Scanlan Two and sings a Song of Healing.
Matt: Scanlan Two as in the--
Travis: Which one are you? Prime or Two?
Sam: I'm Prime right now.
Matt: A simulacrum can not be healed, except by--
Sam: Ever?
Matt: They can be repaired.
Sam: But not healed with a healing thing.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Or a potion.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: How do they get repaired? Is it like a Doty situation?
Matt: Kind of.
Ashley: Once they're gone they're gone?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Then never mind that.
Matt: You would know this, having known the spell and the significance of its creation. If it is damaged you can repair it in an alchemical laboratory using rare herbs and minerals worth a hundred gold per hit point.
Sam: Oh boy.
Taliesin: Can Scanlan Two heal himself?
Matt: No, he can heal other things.
Laura: How damaged is Scanlan Two already?
Sam: A little.
Ashley: Wait, from what?
Matt: The skeleton dragon breath.
Sam: All right. It's all good, guys. We're going to be fine! Then Scanlan One will heal himself with a bonus action Healing Word.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And then he'll grab Scanlan Two and Dimension Door behind the dragon.
Matt: Oh shit.
Laura: What are you doing?
Matt: Both of these guys appear behind the dragon. Right behind it?
Sam: On the ground.
Laura: Do you know Sylas and Delilah are right there?
Liam: By Delilah or here?
Sam: Back there.
Laura: Sylas is right here. Right next to Sylas?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: You want both of you to be right behind Sylas?
Matt: I'm allowing you guys to move things. Thank you.
Laura: Do you want melee range, or do you want back ten feet?
Sam: Back ten feet. That would be great.
Matt: All right, so that's your action and bonus action.
Taliesin: You can move.
Sam: Wait, this was Scanlan One.
Matt: Scanlan Two hasn't gone yet. Scanlan Two is at the very end, with Keyleth.
Sam: Scanlan One will walk around the side of the thing.
Matt: There you go. All right. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I really am? Oh my. Okay.
Matt: Actually, at the end of the turn, Sylas is going to use another legendary action. He got them back, actually, because he used it before last turn. So he uses his first legendary action to head up.
Laura: He can climb up walls?
Matt: He runs up the side. (impacts) He glances down, looking towards where you are. All right, that's going to bring us to Vax's turn.
Liam: Yeah, okay, so if I get to the very edge there, am I in range of Delilah on the ground with Sharpshooter? Cover doesn't do much, except full cover.
Matt: Yeah, she would have cover in this circumstance, but you avoid it with Sharpshooter, so you can.
Liam: And am I within 60 feet over there, about?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Okay, I'm going to throw Whisper at her, and she's down, so I have advantage. That is a 27 to hit.
Matt: 27 to hit hits.
Liam: And I'm going to bamf there.
Matt: She's prone, so yeah. You have disadvantage on the attack against her.
Liam: What, because she's prone?
Matt: It's a ranged attack. You don't have advantage against her because there's nothing giving you advantage.
Liam: Her being prone doesn't give me advantage?
Matt: No, her being prone, against ranged attacks, it's with disadvantage. Roll a second time.
Liam: That's much worse.
Marisha: But it cancels out.
Laura: Because of Sharpshooter.
Matt: Sharpshooter means he ignores cover. Doesn't give him advantage on the attack roll.
Marisha: That sucks.
Matt: Hold on, what was that one?
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18 technically would hit. She's going to use Shield as a reaction to add plus five to her AC. She's on her back and sees the dagger and goes (ping) and deflects it off.
Liam: All right, second attack is a natural 20.
Travis: Really?
Liam: Yeah. With Whisper, she has to make a saving throw with a DC of 18 or become frightened of me for a minute, on a crit.
Matt: What was the DC on that one?
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18? She has a plus ten wisdom save, so that's going to put her at a 20.
Liam: All right. (counting)
Laura: That's a great way to roll.
Liam: 72.
Matt: 72?
Liam: Yeah, it's a crit. Double the dice.
Matt: Right, but it's not sneak attack, though.
Liam: Oh, sorry, so. 32. Thank you.
Matt: No worries.
Travis: Wow, your reverse math was super fast just then. That would have taken me five minutes.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And I'm going to bamf there on it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: It's fine.
Liam: Don't worry. And with my bonus action, I'm going to throw my third dagger up at the wall. Can I throw Whisper again? Is it like quick draw, or does it have to change daggers?
Matt: Technically, I'd consider it to change dagger, generally, because you're throwing them so fast.
Liam: All right, then instead I'm going to disengage, and I'm going to dart back between the Scanlans.
Marisha: Between the Scanlans.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn, Vax?
Travis: Keyleth.
Matt: At the end of your turn, Sylas is going to use his second legendary action.
Liam: Wait, she used a reaction to knock the dagger away.
Matt: Sylas.
Liam: She used Shield, which is a reaction, so she can't hit me with an attack of opportunity. Never mind.
Matt: That's not what this is. Sylas is using a legendary action. This has nothing to do with Delilah.
Laura: You're talking about your disengage. Don't worry about it.
Matt: Sylas is going to use his second legendary action at the end of your turn to take a swing at Grog with his Greataxe of the Eclipse.
Laura: Greataxe of the Eclipse?
Marisha: Wait, Delilah or Sylas?
Laura: Sylas.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: That is a 21.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: That is 14 points of damage, reduced to seven, and I need you to make a wisdom saving throw, please.
Taliesin: With advantage.
Travis: With advantage. Oh, wait. That's a d10. Natural 20. (relieved noises)
Travis: First one was a three.
Matt: As the blade sinks across you, you resist the impact, but you feel this cold sensation across the wound that begins to spill across your body. You angrily, in your rage, flex against it and manage to withstand and shrug off the effect. That ends that. Next up is Keyleth and Scanlan Two.
Sam: Hey.
Marisha: Hey, Scanlan Two. Are you just as charismatic as Scanlan One?
Sam: I've got all the words to make the girls like me.
Marisha: Okay, I don't care. Okay, Keyleth is going to try to do a one-two punch here. She's going to move forward and then does she see Delilah?
Matt: Make a perception check. I'd say probably, actually. You watched her get knocked back; you're fine.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to reach out and do an Entangle spell right under her.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Unless she can make a strength save versus my spell shit.
Matt: That is a four plus one. No.
Marisha: Fail, so she is restrained, and then I'm going to run, and I'm going to use my Mantle of the Tempest to jump, and then trying to be dope, here, in mid-air, I'm going to change into an earth elemental and try and grab onto the bone dragon and see if I can snap his neck in the process. Grapple the bone dragon's head.
Matt: Okay. Entangle is an action?
Marisha: Yes, and then I'm running and jumping and grabbing for the rest of my movement.
Joe: Do we need some more tape?
Matt: Actually, I can finally use the layer over here.
Laura: Do you want me to get the tape?
Matt: All right, you leap over. That's the rest of your turn. After entangling her, you run, leap, and as the wind from the mantle picks up, you watch this gust of wind lift her. Make an athletics check.
Laura: To try to land on the dragon?
Marisha: A straight athletics? Yeah. (whimpers) 11.
Matt: Okay. Not too bad. That's enough. It was maybe a 15-foot jump at this point, and it's tripled because of your mantle, so you leap and land, transforming into the elemental and grappling onto its back. All right. That ends your turn, Keyleth. Scanlan Two?
Sam: She's grappled now?
Matt: She is, yes.
Marisha: Yeah. Fuck her shit up!
Taliesin: She's prone and grappled.
Marisha: Prone and grappled, and not for a very long time.
Sam: So if we hit her, it automatically hits, right?
Matt: Physically. You get advantage on attacks against her.
Sam: Is Bigby's Hand a magic attack or a physical attack? It's a melee spell attack.
Matt: It's a melee spell, so you get advantage on the attack roll, yeah.
Sam: Okay, then I'll change my plans and I'll do that. Scanlan Two will cast Bigby's Hand at level-6 and pound her really hard. Shit.
Joe: Is that a Philip Seymour Hoffman Happiness reference? (laughter)
Sam: Is that 6d8? Or 8d8? Bigby's Hand; I always forget.
Matt: It's 5th-level, and you've cast it at 6th, correct? So it's an additional 2d8 to the punch.
Sam: And it starts at 4d8? Oh, so it's only 6d8.
Joe: Would you like to borrow some d8s?
Sam: Yes. You know what? I'm going to do it at level-7, then.
Matt: You already said 6th.
Sam: Okay. That's fine. All right, so a bunch of d8s.
Matt: You have to roll to hit first, so d20 with advantage.
Sam: 17 plus 11.
Matt: Yeah, that hits, so roll your 6d8.
Sam: Yeah. One, two, three, four, five.
Joe: Or you can use the Smite dice.
Sam: I like these. 29.
Matt: All right.
Sam: 29, and then I guess, as his bonus action, he'll inspire Vax, who's not even here.
Matt: Sing to the space where he was.
Sam: Scanlan Two only knows the songs of Scanlan, so he will sing, weirdly hollowly: (singing) When I get that feeling, I want Clarota healing. (laughter)
Sam: He only knows the songs that he already knows!
Travis: I told you, it's the jam.
Matt: All right, so when he gets back, give him the d12.
Sam: And then he moves. He ducks back behind there. Yeah, just peeking out a little so he can see where Bigby's Hand is.
Matt: Okay. At the end of your turn, Sylas is going to use his last legendary action to move his speed without provoking opportunity attacks. He leaps off the side and lands right next to Delilah.
Marisha: Does he get entangled? Because he did just land in difficult terrain.
Matt: He's not entangled, I don't think, because he wasn't there for the casting. Difficult terrain means he moves across at half.
Marisha: He's in difficult terrain.
Matt: Okay. Good to know.
Marisha: I have rocky ground. That's all I have.
Matt: All righty, so entangled... okay, yeah. Got it. Cool. That ends the legendary action. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Can I jump to the top of the bannister here so I'm looking down at old tangled-up Delilah. (sighs) May I leap off the tower and straight onto Delilah's prone body?
Matt: Sure. Make an athletics check.
Sam: So romantic.
Laura: Feet stomping her chest?
Matt: That's easy enough. Make an athletics check, actually, in case something goes horribly bad. You are raging, so you get advantage.
Travis: 25.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough. At that height, you take eight points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to four, and (impact) you land, arcing over her, both feet to each side of her, and you're standing, looming over her body as she's wrapped up in vines, going (grunting).
Travis: I fucking hate this dead bitch. And I raise the sword and start swinging down in these huge arcs at her. The first two attacks at her.
Matt: Okay. As you pull the blade up, the voice goes, "Yes. Her. She's part of the web. Her. Her!" And you give into the fury. Go ahead and make your attacks.
Travis: Are they with advantage because she's prone?
Matt: Correct. Well, she's restrained.
Travis: So not reckless. Natural 20. (cheering)
Sam: She's going to die.
Liam: Butcher that motherfucker!
Travis: Should I roll the second attack?
Matt: Roll the damage first. She's hurt, but she's not terrible. Yet.
Joe: She's about to be terrible.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: (counting) 21 plus 14. Help me. 35?
Laura: 35.
Travis: 35.
Marisha: 21 plus 14? Yeah.
Travis: 35, okay. So that's those. Let me make sure I'm doing this right. Oh, that's before the modifier.
Laura: 35 times two now?
Travis: Just 35.
Liam: Modifier goes on at the end.
Ashley: What is it?
Travis: 51.
Laura: What do you get for the crit on Kas? What do you get for the crit? That's why I'm asking if you double your dice.
Travis: No, I mean my brutal critical. I roll the damage die, an additional--
Matt: You roll the damage die, double that, add the modifiers, and then the additional damage.
Marisha: And you're raging right?
Travis: Two times, yeah.
Marisha: Plus your rage damage, don't forget to double that.
Travis: Two damage dies at this level.
Matt: We'll see--
Joe: This is that crazy new sword.
Matt: Three, at 17th level.
Travis: Three?
Matt: Yeah, so 3d10 additional.
Laura: Oh my god, so 51 plus 3d10.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: And is that doubled too?
Laura: No.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: That would be crazy.
Travis: 62. I rolled pretty low.
Matt: Okay, so as you bring the blade down, with this horrible screaming hiss--
Laura: That's one hit?
Matt: Yeah, 62 points of damage. The blade jams into her chest, and as you twist it she screams, and the blood from the wounds sprays out in the middle of the air, freezes, and then slips into the blade as it's sucking up the blood. She's like (grunts) entangled, and she reaches up and grabs the blade, and begins to start pulling it out of the wound, she's (choking) as blood begins splattering up around her mouth, but she's still alive.
Travis: Did you want it out? Here, let me help you out (yells) and put it back in!
Matt: Roll again.
Travis: That is a 32.
Matt: Okay, roll damage.
Laura: I like it when the music stops, we're like (hyperventilates).
Travis: 24.
Matt: 24. You jam the blade in a second time, and gash across and it carves open this part of her chest, and you can see the blood spatter out. The bones are exposed, and she's on the ground, shaking. She's hanging on by a tether, and her eyes are going wild, and she glances over, and her hand goes out. And you can see Sylas, who's right next to her, his eyes are wide and he's reaching out to grasp for her hand.
Laura: (gravelly) Chop her hand off!
Matt: Is that the end of your turn? Oh, you're frenzied raging? Right.
Taliesin: Oh no. Yeah!
Marisha: Come on, come on Grog!
Travis: I was going to do something to Sylas but fuck it, we're going to hit her.
Sam: (whispered) Chop off her hand.
Laura: Chop off her whole arm.
Travis: 33 to hit.
Matt: That hits, roll damage.
Laura: (singing) Please die Deliah, we want you dead.
Taliesin: Third time's the charm.
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23 points of damage? Are you rolling extra undead damage on this? On these attacks? Because she's not undead.
Travis: Nope, nope. 23 plus-- I wasn't even adding-- I was so excited about the sword damage I was forgetting my rage damage.
Matt: Right, but you rolled 3d10 there.
Travis: I did, yeah. The d10 plus 2d10 slashing damage to undead right?
Matt: She's not undead though.
Travis: Oh, she's not?
Matt: No.
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: You've been adding that to all the attacks? Okay, noted. Roll--
Travis: I figured she was dead, then not dead--
Matt: Roll 4d10 for me right now. I'm going to retract that from the damage she's taken.
Travis: 22.
Matt: She's still wounded, but she's not hanging on by that thread. Okay, so the damage you rolled for that attack?
Travis: 24. But I hadn't added my--
Laura: So do your damage again because that--
Matt: Roll the d10 and add your modifiers.
Travis: Okay fair enough. Shit, I'm so sorry.
Matt: It's okay.
Laura: He wasn't doing his rage modifiers, so you could add that then, potentially?
Marisha: The difference.
Travis: So that's 21.
Sam: With your rage?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: So as you hack in a third time with the blade, making a smear of blood across the ground, the entangled vines that hold her there are soaked in crimson at this point. And she's coughing and sputtering, you can see the open wounds in her chest, and her hand reaching out "Sylas." And he's going for her at that point. That's the end of your turn. She's still alive.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Ashley: Good job.
Travis: I thought she was undead, just figured.
Matt: No, she's alive.
Joe: She's a clone.
Travis: Oh, really?
Marisha: Yeah, I was wondering about that.
Travis: Sylas is undead.
Matt: Correct.
Travis: The dragon's undead.
Joe: No, because I've faced her before.
Travis: Are the gloomstalkers undead?
Matt: No.
Travis: Not undead?
Laura: I bet she's a fucking clone.
Ashley: What does that mean?
Laura: She made a clone of herself.
Matt: That ends your turn. Vex.
Laura: Okay, so if I attack her, it's at disadvantage? Or with--
Matt: With a ranged attack? Yes, because she is-- well, she's restrained, which gives her advantage, so technically, it would be just a regular attack roll.
Laura: Well then I'm going to attack her. She's already restrained. Fuck it, I'm going to attack her with a blazing bowstring.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: Kill her, kill her.
Laura: Yes. 17 plus 14, with sharpshooter.
Matt: Yeah, that hits.
Laura: Minus five. Oh god, 15 plus two is 17, 25, 30, plus the blazing bowstring, 37. That's everything, right?
Taliesin: Did you do your plus ten for the Sharpshooter?
Laura: 47 for Sharpshooter!
Travis: Hunter's Mark?
Laura: 47, I didn't Hunter's Mark it.
Matt: 47 points of damage with the Sharpshooter. How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Marisha: Get it girl! Get it girl!
Matt: She was reaching out for that Dimension Door.
Laura: Oh fuck!
Matt: You see her hand reaching out, and you see her fingers tracing the incantation in the air as Sylas' hand reaches outstretched for hers.
Laura: I point my finger down at her as I'm about to shoot the arrow. As it shoots, I keep pointing at her like: How's it feel, bitch? How's it feel?
Matt: As she reaches out, her eyes are locked with Sylas. She's not even paying attention to Grog at this point, all she's focused on is escape. And Grog as you look down at her and Sylas is looking into her face reaching out, the arrow just (impact) through the jaw and out the side of her cheek there. (breath catches) and her eyes go cold. The spell incantation fades and the hand just twitches and falls to the ground still.
Marisha: That was so dope!
Ashley: Yes!
Matt: As that happens, Sylas, his hand still reached out goes (yelling) "No!"
Laura: Oh I feel so bad for him.
Travis: No you don't.
Laura: I do have another attack!
Matt: He turns around to look at you, "Vengeance, I suppose, is mine this time."
Laura: And I attack him.
Matt: This is a unique reversal of last time.
Laura: With blazing bowstring.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Sharpshooter. So 28 minus five hits?
Matt: 28 minus five, yeah, that hits. That is the end of Delilah Briarwood.
Travis: Like done?
Matt: Clones take a while.
Laura: 33 damage to him. Seven of which is fire damage.
Matt: Gotcha. Is that the end of your turn?
Travis: Were her hands her own hands?
Matt: They seemed to be.
Laura: I'm going to run down the stairs to the lower level. Yeah, I'm in there.
Matt: Okay. All right, first things first. As soon as Delilah's body goes lifeless, Keyleth, you feel this sudden shift beneath your feet, as the bone structure that maintains the body of the skeletal dragon collapses entirely. (cheering)
Laura: Two with one!
Taliesin: I was going to feel really guilty about killing that thing.
Matt: You suffer 11 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: That's fine.
Matt: Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I want to try and come around here if possible.
Matt: With a speed of 30 you can do that, yeah.
Taliesin: Just here.
Sam: Matt, don't forget those two guys.
Matt: They just got there last turn.
Laura: Delilah's dead!
Matt: Percy, what are you doing?
Taliesin: First thing I'm doing is I'm taking a grit shot at Sylas with Animus. And I'm doing a headshot just to make his life a little more complicated.
Liam: Do you get them at Reproductions, too?
Taliesin: I do, I'm taking very nice head shots. Actually, I go to Prints Charming.
Marisha: Do you really?
Sam: That is not a place.
Taliesin: That's a real place. It's on Ventura.
Matt: Percy! Roll your attack!
Taliesin: Sorry! The most LA moment in our game ever! Just now!
Liam: I don't know about that.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, maybe not. Yep, that'll do, that's a 26 to hit?
Matt: That'll hit!
Taliesin: And he has to make a constitution saving throw.
Matt: Okay, He's going to use legendary resistance to succeed.
Taliesin: That's fine.
Travis: His first one?
Matt: His first one.
Taliesin: He still takes 16 points of damage and two points of psychic damage.
Matt: All righty, 18, got it.
Taliesin: And I'm going to take another headshot, because that's funny. And that's 31 to hit.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: That's 12 points of damage and one psychic damage. And does he make his constitution saving throw?
Matt: He does actually, what's the DC on it?
Taliesin: The DC is 20.
Matt: He rolled 20 exactly.
Taliesin: Fine. I'm going to take another headshot. Burning my grit.
Sam: Pew pew!
Taliesin: I should have gone for a Sharpshooter. That's 34 to hit, Jesus Christ.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: Another constitution saving throw.
Matt: That is a 20 again!
Taliesin: God, motherfucker!
Matt: 16 plus four both times.
Taliesin: That's 15 points of damage plus four psychic. So 19 total.
Matt: As he's there, his arm out, and he's seething with rage, his eyes burning bright red, like the same shade as Grog's, which is disconcerting. Each bullet hits him and he doesn't react. (bullets hitting) He's just looking down at her and back up at Vex and down at her. Is that your turn?
Taliesin: No, I don't like the way he's doing that, I'm burning an action surge. I'm going to use some Sharpshooter. I'm going to burn a bonus and reload my gun. Let's just take three Sharpshooter shots, see what happens.
Marisha: That one's cocked, I think.
Matt: No, they're there.
Taliesin: I should not have rolled all three at once.
Matt: Oh well.
Taliesin: The way they landed, it would have been the third one anyway. Two shots, that's 15 to hit? No.
Matt: 15 misses. He puts a hand up without even watching and deflects the bullet from the air.
Laura: He deflects the bullet?!
Taliesin: 20 to hit.
Matt: 20 to hit? He's going to use his reaction to use parry and the second bullet, with the other hand he shoots it off to the side. Not even looking at you just staring at Vex still.
Laura: He's looking at me? Oh no.
Taliesin: And the third shots jams at a two.
Laura: No I ran away! He can't see me! I'm downstairs.
Matt: Glaring at the space you were when you ran.
Travis: Yeah, through all material.
Taliesin: Actually I have a resistance now to psychic damage, so I take 1d6 psychic damage for my gun, not two, correct?
Matt: Okay, yes you do.
Taliesin: I take my four points and I am happy for them.
Matt: That ends your turn!
Taliesin: That ends my turn.
Matt: Arkhan.
Sam: Come on, Arkhan.
Joe: I command the gloomstalker to shriek. I just read this.
Laura: What does it do when he shrieks?
Joe: Within 60 feet, the gloomstalker emits a terrible, shattering shriek that impacts all hostile creatures. Each must make a DC 16 constitution save or become stunned until the end of their next turn.
Marisha: Hell yeah.
Joe: And it's the two up there, right?
Matt: Technically they are, yeah. That's what they were going to do next turn. So that's a two on the one gloomstalker. That is a 14, they both fail. Both of the other gloomstalkers, all of a sudden (croaking) their heads begin writhing around. They are stunned until their next turn. And Sylas is going to use his second legendary resistance of the day.
Marisha: We can burn him out. Burn him out.
Joe: And now I'm unimpeded, direct. All the way to him.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Destroy him!
Matt: Fly this over to him.
Taliesin: High-five Keyleth on the way in.
Matt: Cool! And?
Joe: Okay and I'm going to do reckless on this.
Ashley: Yeah you are.
Travis: Atta boy!
Laura: I like the magical flourish of the die.
Joe: It's like some David Copperfield.
Matt: Exactly.
Marisha: Just salt bae your dice.
Joe: Does 32 hit?
Matt: 32 does hit.
Joe: Okay great. Is this guy undead?
Matt: Yes he is. He is a vampire.
Joe: Out of curiosity, the bones of Delilah. She deflated like a bag?
Matt: She's dead. The skeleton fell into piles of bones.
Sam: She's okay.
Matt: She's not okay.
Joe: She's not a zombie.
Matt: She's a slashed-up human. Her whole torso is a mess. She has an arrow through her jaw and cheek.
Laura: Out her eyeball.
Joe: Great. Well, then I would like to do a 2nd-level Divine Smite, which is going to be 6d8.
Travis: 6d8? Holy shit.
Joe: I rolled badly. That's a 28.
Travis: (laughing) That's bad? Oh man.
Matt: 28 points. All right, so as you rush forward with your axe, you swing down into Sylas, who gets slammed in the side of the shoulder, and as the spark of the Divine Smite energy slams into his side, you can see him: he's starting to feel the pinch, all of you surrounding him.
Joe: That's a cock.
Matt: Roll again. It's a dice, actually.
Joe: That's not great. That's 19.
Matt: 19 does not hit, unfortunately.
Joe: I would like to frenzy.
Matt: Okay, so you're rolling your third strike.
Joe: Frenzy, reckless.
Matt: Yeah.
Joe: That's going to be a 27.
Matt: 27 hits. Roll damage.
Marisha: Kill him!
Joe: I'll go 2nd-level Divine Smite again.
Travis: Come on, now!
Joe: My friend John bought me some smite dice. Let's go. Oh man, that's not a lot. That's rough, isn't it?
Marisha: Goddamn it, John.
Joe: That's a 29, which was a terrible roll.
Matt: First attack slams into it and bursts. Second one, you swing and Sylas' form turns to shadow temporarily and dissipates around the blade and returns. The third hit does strike true in the back of the head. (yelps) He yelps out in pain as the blast bursts upward. You can see the flesh burning from the impact of the radiant damage. That end your turn?
Joe: I believe it will do so, yes.
Matt: That brings us to Sylas' turn. Sylas does not regenerate because the radiant damage kept it at bay.
Travis: I did not know that.
Joe: It's why I did divine.
Matt: Radiant damage prevented his regeneration. Looking at his current circumstance, he's going to--
Marisha: No!
Matt: You watch as he glances around and his body (whoosh) into a bat.
Sam: Scanlan Two's going to cast Counterspell.
Matt: It's not a spell. (groaning)
Matt: Scanlan Two goes to counter it, but there's no spell to counter.
Marisha: Vampire bullshit!
Matt: Turns into a bat (fluttering).
Marisha: I have a reaction! Can Keyleth the ellie try to grab it?
Matt: You don't get to grab, you get an attack of opportunity.
Marisha: Can I?
Matt: You get an attack of opportunity. You get an attack of opportunity, and Grog gets an attack of opportunity.
Laura: And Bigby's Hand.
Matt: Bigby's Hand does not get reactions.
Joe: Does They get a attack of opportunity?
Matt: Yeah, one attack.
Sam: Against a bat.
Taliesin: Which means if you hit him enough, he drops back to human.
Matt: That's not how a vampire bat form works. It's not a Polymorph. He has the same hit points in the bat form as he does in his normal form.
Travis: What if I made this a reckless tripping attack?
Laura: Does that work on a bat? Can you trip a bat?
Travis: I don't know. I don't know if it would ground him for one second or not. I don't know. That's why I'm asking the DM.
Joe: Who goes first out of all these attacks of opportunity?
Matt: You go first.
Joe: Okay, then I would like to attempt to snatch the bat with gloomstalker.
Marisha: Yes! Come on, yes!
Joe: Has a snatch.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Snatch that bat!
Ashley: Get that snatch.
Matt: Roll an attack.
Joe: That's a 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Joe: Snatched!
Sam: What does that mean, snatched?
Joe: The target is grappled. The target is considered restrained. I can also fly with my grappled target at half of my speed. It's 2d6 plus six piercing damage. Right?
Sam: He doesn't like this.
Matt: Because the snatch is a special attack, essentially, as a reaction, because a reaction gives you a melee attack; it's not an actual attack towards him-- let me double-check here for you guys real fast.
Joe: Was that me trying to sneak one by?
Sam: No. No, it doesn't say that it's special. Why don't you plan a backup, just in case?
Matt: Just double checking here. Okay.
Liam: How are you doing there, M?
Marisha: I'm nervous.
Taliesin: It's our fidget spinner.
Laura: I need a food for my nervousness.
Taliesin: I will let you know if it snaps while it's in your teeth it hurts a lot. I know that from experience.
Marisha: Yeah, this is like what Dr. Seuss warns us about as kids.
Laura: You could break your tooth.
Sam: Guys, what are those shirts? Can you hold up that shirt again? Oh, there it is.
Taliesin: This is the face Matt's not making right now.
Joe: After, if you want to enter the raffle, I'm not sure how this works, but I brought this shirt. We're going to rub it all over Travis at break and then the winner is going to get this shirt. These only come in extra large.
Matt: I will say because I don't allow monsters to use special attacks as reactions and haven't used them the entire game against you guys, because that would've been much more dangerous, I won't allow it for this circumstance, but it does still do the damage on the regular attack.
Joe: Fine. Okay, great, then I'm going to bite this right in the fucking nose.
Matt: It'll still hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Ashley: It can also be a Halloween costume.
Sam: Ooh!
Marisha: Oh my goodness! Matthew Mercer?!
Matt: This got really weird suddenly.
Taliesin: We're going to show up to the next game, all wearing them like a terrible Council of Evil.
Marisha: (laughter) Just the eyes cut out.
Joe: Not bad. Do you want me to break it down, piercing and necrotic?
Matt: No, that's fine.
Joe: Okay, 29 points.
Matt: Actually, no, I do need two of those.
Joe: Okay, then we're going to have 19 piercing and eight necrotic.
Matt: Okay. Cool.
Joe: 19 and eight, 27.
Matt: Make your attack of opportunity, your attack of opportunity and your attack of opportunity.
Travis: I'm going to do reckless Trip attack.
Marisha: Don't. Fuck. Me. Gil! It's fine. It kind of fucked me. 12.
Matt: No. (ricochet noise) Off his armor.
Joe: 30.
Matt: That hits, roll damage.
Travis: 34.
Matt: Hits, roll damage.
Travis: He's undead, right?
Matt: Yes.
Joe: You first, Grog.
Travis: Oh, no, please.
Joe: No, no, no, you.
Travis: No, you were up first, I insist. Arkhan, please.
Joe: Yeah, but you did that dynamic jump, it was really cool.
Marisha: Jocks were not this polite in the locker room.
Sam: They were to each other.
Travis: Yeah, 17 and then I roll a d8 or I add a d8.
Matt: d8 additional damage, yep.
Travis: It's my first one I've ever rolled. Five. Shit, what did I say?
Matt: 17. TRAVIS Thank you. 22.
Matt: All right, 22 damage.
Travis: It's a trip attack.
Matt: What does it say it does? I'll pull it up.
Travis: Oh, I'll pull it up. I've got it right here.
Matt: Here we go. Okay, a strength saving throw. That's a natural one, so he's going to use his last legendary resistance to resist it. He's out of legendary resistances now. All right, and damage on that one?
Joe: Just pumped a 1st-level Divine Smite, and that's going to be 21 plus three is 24, 24--
Travis: Does his hand turn into a bat with him? Or does that fall--
Matt: All of his equipment goes into his form.
Joe: That's going to be 40 points of damage.
Matt: As you all slam into the side of this bat form it shrieks out and then just (flapping) it takes off and is going to use its action to go ahead and go into a dash and continue to fly away.
Taliesin: I feel like I would be able to get an attack somewhere in here considering my range if I pulled out my big gun.
Matt: Oh yeah. No, we're coming back to that. He is at that full speed and that form--
Travis: Plus we're still in initiative order.
Liam: Our reactions come from melee range.
Matt: Okay. So that ends Sylas' turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: How far away is he?
Matt: He would be about-- Let's say at that flying speed of the bat, which I have to look up now, because that's a thing.
Taliesin: How could you not be prepared for--
Matt: I know. What is this bullshit, Matt? Jesus Christ! The bat's flying speed is 30 feet. So he's 60 feet away from you guys at an angle that way.
Laura: Like here?
Matt: Yeah. 60 feet up there. All right. Pike, what are you doing?
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to--
Marisha: I love your commitment to the tickle.
Ashley: I'm trying to think of what I should do. Okay, I'm going to try to Guiding Bolt it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Guiding Bolt, up the butt! You want to move forward so you can hit him?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Guiding Bolt, I believe you have to roll your attack on that one? Yeah, make a ranged spell attack.
Ashley: 18.
Matt: 18 does not hit.
Ashley: I'm going to use Guided Strike.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Which adds plus ten, so 28.
Matt: You can use it on yourself, right?
Ashley: Yeah. Guided Strike is for myself, War God's Blessing is somebody else.
Matt: That's what it is. Yeah. Go for it. That hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Ashley: I'm going to do it at 3rd level, so that's four, 6d6.
Laura: 6d6?
Matt: 6d6 radiant damage.
Laura: All radiant! That is a really good roll.
Taliesin: That looks solid from here.
Sam: Ashley Johnson. Clutch. Bicoastal Roll.
Matt: Bicoastal Roll?
Ashley: Okay, 23.
Matt: 23. (impact) The bat now is shining; the next attack against it has advantage. End of your turn?
Ashley: Let me see. My bonus actions. Ugh, I don't want to use that in case. Okay, that's it.
Matt: All right. End of your turn, going to use its Legendary Action to move at speed; the bat is now 90 feet away. That ends your turn, that brings us to Scanlan. Oh, the gloomstalkers, actually, which are no longer stunned. But that's the end of their turn. End of the gloomstalkers' turn, it's going to use another Legendary Action to move another 30, so it's 120 feet away. Scanlan, you're up.
Laura: He's really far away from us now.
Matt: He's just full sprint.
Liam: You said 120 feet away?
Matt: 120 feet, yeah.
Laura: Can you do anything at 120 feet, Scanlan?
Sam: I can do something. I can do one thing.
Marisha: If you guys let me go right now I can try-- You can do something?
Sam: Scanlan One will just hold his turn until those gloomstalkers are in range or until they move, and then he'll cast, I don't know, frigging Wand of Magic Missiles, I don't know.
Matt: Sure. All right, end of Scanlan's turn, will use third and final Legendary Action, is now 150 feet away.
Marisha: No! Let me go first!
Matt: We're now at Vax's turn.
Laura: Yeah, you can't switch your initiative.
Marisha: You can if other people hold. And you describe--
Matt: They can hold their action, but then at the end of their turn, he still gets to do movement.
Liam: All right, I'm going to use my movement and dash, so five, ten, 15... 50, 55, 60, and I'm going to paladin attack the gloomstalker up there.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: First one is great, that is a 33. And the second one is also pretty good, 25. Do those both hit?
Matt: They both have an AC of 15.
Liam: Okay, shit. Should've called Sharpshooter. All right, so the first one is one, plus eight is nine--
Travis: Can he use a legendary resistance on a grapple?
Matt: No, because a grapple check is a versus.
Liam: Seven, so 11 and seven. Just 11 and seven on that Gloomstalker.
Matt: Got it. Ends your turn, Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: How far away is he?
Matt: 150 feet. from where he was.
Marisha: I'm going to drop my form, take my action to cast Earthbind on him, it's a 300-foot range spell.
Laura: Oh my God. Please, please, please. He's used up his legendary resistances, right?
Marisha: He did.
Matt: What's the save he has to make?
Marisha: Strength versus my spell save.
Taliesin: Do you have something because of your hit?
Matt: That is 22. 17 plus five.
Marisha: 22?!
Matt: 17 plus five.
Marisha: You can't do anything?
Taliesin: The last time you hit him, does that mean--
Laura: Advantage!
Matt: It's a saving throw, it's not an attack. Yeah, the Earthbind does not take effect on him unfortunately--
Marisha: Can I do it again immediately? Can I try again?
Matt: No, it's an action to cast the spell.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Sorry.
Marisha: I know! Can I wait and--
Matt: Okay, Scanlan Two? Anything?
Sam: He's 150 feet away?
Marisha: He rolled so fucking high!
Laura: Can you run 30 feet and then do something?
Matt: He can run 25 feet.
Sam: I can run 25 feet and then reach 120 feet.
Matt: Yeah, you're just under--
Sam: I'm five feet shy.
Joe: Wait. I can get you on the back of this thing and fly it up there.
Liam: Yeah, but we can't get out of range of the ring unless we want to--
Laura: I mean, as soon as Sylas isn't there, he's going to know we're here.
Joe: So we have to stay within 60 feet. Of each other.
Laura: Or we can all just run.
Marisha: If you all hold, I can try again.
Taliesin: No, because he's going to keep running.
Laura: If we hold, he just keeps moving--
Marisha: Yeah, but it's a 300-foot range spell, and he's only 150 feet away. I don't think he can dash 150 feet.
Sam: He already did 150 getting to your turn so he'll be able to do another 150--
Marisha: But it's a 300-foot range spell.
Liam: He'd still be in range--
Taliesin: We don't have to hold our turns, we'll just get back to you.
Marisha: Right. That's what I'm saying.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, no, we're fine. I mean, that'll happen eventually. If it's going to get there.
Laura: Whose turn is it?
Sam: It's Scanlan Two's turn. He's going to bonus action Bigby's Hand, grapple one of the gloomstalkers.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: The one we've been working on.
Matt: All righty. Bigby's Hand punches--
Sam: Not punches, grapple.
Matt: Okay. We'll say for the purposes of this, they're--
Sam: They're easily killed.
Matt: They're pretty easily killed given the circumstances you guys have, the chase now--
Sam: Well, do you want to kill them, or save them for riding on?
Joe: Bah! I think I'm-- (laughter)
Joe: 40 minus three is 37, This one's got 37 hit points of damage.
Laura: Just try to get Sylas.
Joe: Do what you feel, Scanlan.
Sam: Well, I'll just hold him for you.
Joe: Oh, thanks. I appreciate that--
Matt: Let's say, Grog, you go up there and start. Anything you want to do--
Travis: I want to see what the inside of them looks like.
Matt: Okay. For the purposes of expediency in this, so we don't spend time just trudging through these things, you guys just hacking at these gloomstalkers.
Sam: One we're saving for him.
Matt: Okay, I will say, to note, that the Control feature generally is a once-a-day type thing--
Sam: Ooh. Then never mind, we kill it.
Matt: Not like it can constantly regenerate to the next thing.
Joe: Hmm. Let me read my description that you sent me. All right. No, okay. I'm calling Mike Mearls!
Marisha: We get back around everybody! Is he still fucking here?!
Matt: We get to Sylas' turn. Sylas dashes twice--
Taliesin: Wait, is it Sylas' turn or my turn?
Matt: Sorry, it's your turn then Sylas', so go ahead.
Taliesin: My turn first. I'm going to take my advantage shot, because I have advantage because of--
Matt: With which gun?
Taliesin: With Bad News.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Wait, why didn't I get to go?
Matt: Oh sorry, you're first. Go for it.
Laura: Can I run out the door and hop on my broom and fly as far as I can--
Taliesin: No, no, no, no!
Joe: 60!
Taliesin: Ring!
Laura: Yeah, but I can only get 50 feet away from you guys. If I come here--
Matt: As soon as you go around that side, you're starting to get close. Up to you. You have Scanlan all the way over there. You barely have Scanlan in your--
Laura: So I can't leave. So I'm at the bottom of the stairs. If I run up the stairs and broom it from here, how far would I get?
Matt: Ten feet out the window.
Laura: Ten feet out the window and he's 150 and I'm-- my shot is what, but with Sharpshooter-- no, that's different.
Liam: Doesn't affect range, it just affects your chances.
Laura: Shit! Wait, let me look at Fenthras. I'm just hoping there's something that says it's 300 feet!
Matt: Fenthras does not change your range.
Laura: (nervous laughter) Okay then, it's only 120-foot range, right? With a longbow?
Matt: Well, the way longbows work is you have an inner range and an outer range, so if he's beyond--
Taliesin: But if you're Sharpshooter the outer range is the inner range.
Laura: Oh, yeah!
Matt: Yeah, your max is 600.
Laura: My max is 600 fucking feet?
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: Oh, yeah, so you just walk up and take a shot.
Laura: Okay then, I'm going to walk up to the window and I'm going to try to cast Bramble Shot on him.
Taliesin: With advantage!
Laura: With advantage?
Sam: It's an attack.
Ashley: Because of--
Matt: Guiding Bolt. Go for it.
Taliesin: Much better!
Joe: Holy freaking half-elf!
Laura: 20.
Matt: 20 just hits. (cheering)
Marisha: Get him down!
Laura: Oh my God. Okay, so 12, that's 18 plus 4d8.
Liam: Sharpshooter doesn't double the distance?
Matt: No, but you have the two different ranges. Because your range is technically 30 to 60, but you can go the full 60 without taking disadvantage after 30 feet.
Liam: So it's at disadvantage normally?
Matt: No disadvantage as a Sharpshooter. It's a crazy feat.
Laura: 43.
Matt: 43 points of damage.
Laura: And he has to make a strength save of DC 17 or be restrained.
Matt: That is a nine plus five, that is a 14. (cheering)
Matt: As the arrow hits the bat, you watch as the arrow bursts into a sudden swarming of bramble vines. They wrap around him and the bat (small impact).
Laura: And does he take bludgeoning damage from hitting the ground?
Matt: He does take a little bit. He's about 80 feet up from there, because he's going at an angle, so he takes 8d6 bludgeoning damage.
Sam: Oh my God! That was the most sniper thing you've ever done!
Laura: That was pretty awesome!
Matt: And with that, you watch as the bat form (poof) dissipates. The brambles fall weak and open.
Sam: Is he there?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Can I see him?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: No bueno.
Liam: I got 26 for Vax.
Matt: You see a misty cloud in the space where Sylas was.
Laura: 34. Misty cloud! How did we fight him before? Sunlight destroyed him before?
Sam: Radiant something, right?
Laura: Sunbeam destroyed him before.
Travis: When he was in the gaseous form.
Laura: Now he's in the gaseous form. Okay, so I rolled a 34.
Taliesin: I rolled huge. 28.
Matt: 28? To what?
Taliesin: Perception.
Matt: Yeah, you see the mist.
Taliesin: How far away is he?
Laura: He's 150 feet away.
Liam: He didn't get a chance to go.
Laura: He's 150 feet away from us.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: So as a group we can all try to move forward, but as we get closer to him--
Taliesin: You've got what it takes. What's the distance on that thing?
Laura: What's the Daylight casting distance? Can you run forward and get close enough?
Marisha: You guys aren't going to want to hear this, I can run forward and Sunburst him at 150 feet away but it's going to burn my 8th-level spell.
Sam: Don't do that.
Marisha: I have Sunbeam, which is a 6th-level spell at 60-foot away. No, I dropped my form.
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: What if you got on a mount?
Sam: Just to get there as fast as you can.
Joe: But we can't get outside of the 60-foot bubble.
Taliesin: We can all move together and he will not be able to move at high speed as a mist.
Laura: Hopefully.
Marisha: Can I scoop up Vex and dash 60 feet ahead and Sunbeam him for another 60 feet?
Matt: Dash as your action.
Taliesin: And we have to stay together.
Laura: We have to stay together.
Joe: Well, you're in the gray. No. Where are you?
Marisha: I'm green.
Laura: I'm technically right here, right now. I'm on the second level. Next to Pike.
Joe: And Bigby's is--
Sam: Is it your turn Keyleth?
Marisha: Yeah, whose turn is it?
Matt: It's finishing Vex's.
Laura: No, it's Percy's turn.
Matt: Okay, so Percy. Your turn.
Laura: You could technically try to sh-- Oh yeah, mist form. (laughter)
Joe: Was that a Jenga?
Taliesin: Wait. I have a weird thing I'm going to try and do-- No, the thing I need to do, I need to get within 30 feet.
Laura: Well, you can get within 60 feet of me so just move toward--
Taliesin: I'm going to move to the edge of where I'm capable of moving right now at my speed. I'm going to signal everybody and say move as a group. So we're going to try to sync our movements.
Matt: All right. We'll say for the purposes of this, the mist travels and vanishes from sight by the time you are able to catch up to it to get it to a place where you can destroy it. Delilah Briarwood has been destroyed, seemingly for the last time. Sylas has been driven to wherever he needs to recover.
Laura: Does it take him a long time?
Sam: Vecna gives up.
Joe: Can I say one thing right now?
Matt: Yes.
Joe: As we were moving in the bubble, I cast Animate Dead on Delilah and I raise her.
Taliesin: You're doing what?
Sam: We're fighting her again!
Matt: As you look out, you can see the mist, and the mist vanishes, and you can see now, looking up, dozens and dozens of gloomstalkers have all turned to see this out-in-the-open action that's now taking place in the space around you. You are all out, not being stealthy, firing and shooting out into the air, and you see now, clusters of these things heading in your direction. As you turn and look to the side, you watch as Delilah's body gets up from the ground.
Joe: Rise, and kneel before your master!
Matt: As the shambling corpse of Delilah falls to her knees before Arkhan--
Joe: Oathbreaker, baby!
Matt: As the realization begins of what is coming at you. Two you could handle, maybe. There's a lot in your direction. You have revealed your position, the wall was already destroyed and everything is swarming in your direction. As you all begin to turn around, you hear this deafening roar from the sky above you. You glance up to see a flash of brass light as Devo'ssa comes swooping into the barrier. Behind, a hundred or more Wyvern Riders, risen from Vasselheim to join the rest of the brigade come swarming in and collide with the gloomstalkers. You now see a frantic dog-fight cluster as hundreds of one and hundreds of the other begin slamming into each other, tearing each other apart. You see blades swing, you see arrows going flying and Devo'ssa begins to do sweeping rounds, back and forth across the sky. You realise if there is a moment to move with the distraction, it's now.
Joe: I load Delilah on the back.
Taliesin: I grab her wand.
Marisha: And her holy symbol that fell to the ground.
Laura: Whatever that sparking thing was.
Matt: The glowing sparkle light in it is inert now.
Marisha: Is what? Inert?
Taliesin: It was the controller. So we have it.
Laura: We book it towards the tower. Right?
Matt: You guys begin bolting your way towards Entropis with its large funnel-like cloud encircling the top of its spire. And we're going to take a break. (cheering)
Travis: Y'all, we recruited dead Delilah!
Joe: I want to find this dude!
Marisha: What a dick!
Matt: We're going to take a quick break, because we want to probably push to 11 tonight and then we're going to leave, so make a quick restroom break, fast as we can, come back. See you guys here in just a minute.
Laura: At the break we're giving away--
Marisha: We're giving away things.
Taliesin: So many things!
Joe: Jocks Machina!
Marisha: Yeah, actually, Max or Ryan, is there stipulations on the shirt?
Taliesin: Nope.
Marisha: We'll figure it out!
Joe: Hey Travis, go put this on.
Matt: Okay guys, we'll see you here in a few minutes.
Taliesin: Take the wrapper off! That's weird! [break]
Matt: Welcome back. A little longer than I anticipated, but that's fine. We're going to jump in here, but before we do that, the winners for the Wyrmwood box, we have Zabando is the winner. For the Jocks Machina shirt, we have Alcyon299. Congratulations! You get to join the very exclusive Jocks Machina club.
Travis: Testosterone poncho.
Joe: Only five of these. The other's my trainer Ron, who plays another goliath, and my brother Nick, who plays an elf ranger who was incinerated by the fucking death knight!
Matt: So. Bringing it back in. As you guys are charging your way toward Entropis, running through the streets, you do the best you can to dodge in and out of any sort of things that might catch your attention street-side. You see most of the undead and various cultists have been filtering down beneath the city a while back, and you're not entirely certain where they are at the moment. The few dregs there are around there, you guys easily enough dodge around. Pushing forward, you see the Spire of Entropis growing taller and taller, the closer and closer you get to it. As soon as you get to the base of the spire, you look up and you can see the broken seams of the once-toppled tower, now held together by the network of glowing, magical threads, like arcane veins, wrapping the tower and lending an unsettling, organic nature to its visage. The exterior still stands, windowless, like an obelisk of tyranny looming over the entirety of the city. The apex, of course, is now obscured by shadow and cloud, this slow-spinning tornado of twilight darkness entwining the top, blocking visibility, and possibly entry, at the top. Numerous gloomstalkers encircle the higher level, not currently engaging in the main fray, which is chaos all around. You see more emerging from this cloud, almost seemingly creating them. The large front doors of the tower appear somewhat ajar and open. There is one rot behemoth currently standing in front of this door. Vox Machina, what do you want to do?
Travis: I don't want to overthink this, but I feel like the sword said that it wanted to cut the webs of Vecna. Can I just cut the tower down?
Laura: I don't know if that's--
Travis: I take your laugh as a sign of--
Sam: I don't know if you can cut the whole tower down. They'll probably try to stop you. Don't you think?
Ashley: You could certainly try.
Travis: I could, couldn't I?
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Perhaps not.
Laura: I feel like, do we see any other doors, like, secret doors, maybe?
Sam: Do we see invisible doors?
Matt: Perception, glancing around, you don't see anything. It looks like this is the door, entrance, to it. You could make an investigation check, but you'd have to get up against the wall and carefully check it.
Laura: Can I do that without letting the rot behemoth see me?
Matt: You can certainly try.
Travis: That's a big fat no!
Matt: You can certainly try. It's not a no.
Liam: But we're directly in front of the door a ways back? How far back?
Matt: You're about 40 feet away from it, off to the side, glancing over where you can see the rot behemoth looming in the archway.
Laura: We didn't really think about how we were getting up the tower, did we?
Joe: Here's a possibility. I have a gloomstalker and I have Delilah. I put her on the back of this thing and fly it up there, maybe this thing moves out of the way.
Laura: Maybe the rot behemoth moves?
Joe: I'm just saying.
Sam: Can she talk? Can you make her talk?
Joe: I don't think I can puppet her. I can tell her to do commands.
Laura: Can you tell her to talk?
Joe: She'll understand what I'm saying, but I don't think she can--
Matt: By the way, as you've made this journey forward and Delilah's been shambling behind, you know, sitting behind you, this strange pain has been hitting you in the back of your shoulders. You glance back and look at the corpse of Delilah behind you as a rapidly growing tree is protruding and growing out of the chest of the corpse, and is now setting weight off of the top of the gloomstalker as it's trying to flutter up behind the party.
Laura: Sorry, sorry, that's a thing.
Joe: Can I Cleansing Touch and end one spell?
Matt: It's less of a spell effect and more of a divine seed that was placed inside her body when she was slain by the Vestige, Fenthras.
Laura: I placed my seed inside of her.
Taliesin: And it quickened.
Matt: Don't make it weird.
Laura: I make everything weird, Matt.
Joe: I'm not going to further question you about that.
Sam: You knocked her up.
Joe: Yeah, okay, must be an elf thing. That's interesting. Very interesting, okay, great.
Sam: Maybe they'll think that it's just a fashion thing, and they'll let her through.
Matt: It's still growing, and it's now protruding about four feet from her chest. The body is now starting to get a little top-heavy.
Laura: Just chop the tree down! It's a thin tree.
Matt: Yeah, it's not very thick. It's maybe about-- Okay, so you take a couple hacks at it and eventually you manage to cut away the tree. Now there's a trunk that's now stopped growing, about a foot out of Delilah's chest, with roots that have taken root up into the shoulders and the chest.
Laura: That's sick. It's like she's got a built-in shield now.
Travis: Can I take one of the fancy robes that remains in the Bag of Holding and drape it over the trunk coming out of her chest, so it's a little more hidden?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Now it looks like she's pregnant!
Sam: I need a house. Can I take her branches and make one?
Matt: A house?
Sam: Oh, it's The Giving Tree. (groaning)
Laura: That's terrible. (something clanks on the floor)
Laura: Oh! What was that?
Matt: You have this rot behemoth at the entryway. What are you guys doing?
Liam: Well, our options are somehow flying up or going in the front door.
Laura: Do we fly up, or do we go inside and up the tower? I'm sure there's no traps or horrible things on the inside of it.
Marisha: Last time, Pike and I took it down with a couple of Earthquake spells.
Taliesin: But that didn't help nearly as much as we thought it would.
Marisha: I mean, we didn't have to go up the damn thing, so maybe check yourself before you say things.
Sam: Let's just charge in. This is a fricking giant, right? We've killed giants.
Travis: Behemoth. Is it dead? Undead?
Matt: The rot behemoth? It's undead.
Joe: It's undead? How big is a rot behemoth?
Matt: The rot behemoth is about 12 feet tall or so. Just a mass of stitched-together undead flesh.
Joe: Medium, or large?
Matt: Large.
Taliesin: I've got an idea. Can I borrow some of that infinite rope?
Laura: Of course.
Taliesin: All right. I'm taking the infinite rope, and I'm tying it around my little gem that I have.
Laura: The little blue gem?
Taliesin: My little glowing gem.
Marisha: Are you going to do that $20 bill trick in New York City, thing?
Taliesin: More or less. Are we all agreed?
Laura: I love it, I love it!
Travis: If it doesn't work, we kill it.
Laura: Yeah, we'll drag it out of the doorway so we can kill it!
Taliesin: Well, I'm going to make it move away, and then once we're in I'm going to yank--
Liam: I used to do this with string and a G.I. Joe for my cat when I was a kid. She loved it. I'm sure the rot behemoth will too.
Matt: Okay, so. You take the pulse stone, you tie it around--
Taliesin: I tie it around in a monkey fist knot. I toss it about 20 feet away. I'm going to give it a throw. I'm going to throw it about 20 feet away from the-- We're all in agreement of this plan?
Sam: This is the best plan.
Liam: Wait, one second. Do we want to lure it into a house and all of us be waiting to gank the shit out of it?
Taliesin: Well, technically, wait, hold on.
Matt: You see a flash and a flare in the sky above you. You see a cluster of gloomstalkers immolated by a burst of flame breath from Devo'ssa, who's now up in the stratosphere. At this same time, you see about a dozen or so wyvern riders go riding into this slow, spinning storm and get disintegrated into pieces.
Taliesin: I'm actually going to throw the gem, then, past the stone giant, into the room. Just a little bit so that anything in the room--
Matt: Make a strength check for me. That's a bit of a lob.
Taliesin: Okay. Nine?
Matt: It makes it about the 20 feet you intended to. (clattering)
Laura: Pull it back and we'll have one of the-- I mean, not that you're not strong and very--
Matt: So what was the range on this Pulse Stone?
Taliesin: 30 feet.
Matt: Okay, it is within range to affect the rot behemoth.
Taliesin: Okay. I have to roll, though. I have to do a roll to see if it survived the throw.
Matt: That's true, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah. It's fine.
Matt: Tink, tink! It's a will save for the rot behemoth.
Taliesin: DC 15.
Matt: Wisdom? That's a two. No. You guys watch as the rot behemoth, the stone, (clattering), its metal-armored face and glowing coal eyes turn (heavy footsteps) and walks over to the gem and stares at it.
Taliesin: Let's all go in, shall we? And I'm going to walk around it and stealth in.
Laura: Pass Without a Trace is still fucking up, if it's been less than an hour.
Matt: Make a concentration check for me, real fast. Make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: We just watched the wyverns get obliterated trying to fly into the swirl at the top.
Laura: I got 18.
Matt: Okay, you maintain the concentration. Referring to the blast from the skeletal dragon, earlier on. All right. So. Did you guys all roll stealth?
Sam: Stealth? Oh shit.
Laura: Plus ten!
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Marisha: Wait, stealth?
Sam: I rolled a two and a two, so that's 15 and 15.
Joe: How do I do this on this gloomstalker, with the zombie? How does this work?
Matt: Zombie's not stealthed, but it is undead. Gloomstalker, it's hard to be stealthed, that gloomstalker, right now.
Sam: We're going inside, we don't need it anymore!
Joe: Want me to leave it?
Sam: I mean, what are you going to do with a flying thing in a narrow stairway? We've seen inside, we scryed inside. It's a very narrow stairway going up.
Laura: Can you have him climb up the side of the tower and meet you up top?
Sam: Oh yeah, meet us up top? (under his breath) He ain't going to survive that.
Laura: Well, we can try it though.
Travis: He might.
Joe: Yeah, I think that would work.
Matt: Okay, you can do that.
Joe: I hate it when you do that!
Liam: I mean, I love it, but I hate it.
Taliesin: Also, double checking-- grit is a reset after combat, not a reset after a short rest?
Matt: No, it's a short rest.
Taliesin: Short rest? Okay, just checking.
Joe: I have the wreath back on my neck, correct? Because that's how it works, I put it back on my neck once we're attuned?
Matt: Yeah, you put it back on your neck once you've-- correct.
Joe: Okay. They, meet us at the top!
Matt: Okay, as you step off and look into its eyes, your eyes flare the bright yellow color and the gloomstalker nods, takes a step back, and then leaps onto the side of the tower, its claws gripping in. As it bats its wings, it takes off and starts heading upward.
Joe: Circle at the top and wait for my command!
Matt: It seems to acknowledge your command.
Joe: All right, now at disadvantage, rolling in heavy plate.
Travis: You got it.
Joe: Do I have a plus ten? Sweet. Yeah, I got this. All right. Nine, 27.
Matt: Okay, so. 27. Two and two, 15, 15. Natural 20.
Marisha: 29.
Liam: Oh, it was a one, but it's a 37 now.
Laura: Because you rolled a luck? What?
Liam: No, Matt told me that, because of reliable talent, one means shit.
Matt: He always has a ten minimum.
Laura: That's fucking badass! 37.
Ashley: 21.
Travis: 22.
Matt: All right. So as you guys all dart in around this rot behemoth, who pays no mind to your presence, you dart into the partially ajar doorway into the base of Entropis, the tower itself. It's dark inside. As soon as you all dart into the interior, the doors are still partially open and you can see the faint glow of the very low general light that encompasses the city of Thar Amphala. The normal greenish-blue glow of the shield is offset a little bit by the natural light that's coming through from the opening of the barrier that you guys have opened. However, the light still diminishes as you step into this large chamber. As soon as you enter the chamber, those of you with darkvision glance around and see, it's a big thoroughfare. You see a large foyer-type chamber with pillars that go from bottom to maybe 25, 30 feet up, to a ceiling. Across the way, you can see two spiral staircases that curl upward and there, maybe, 30 or so humanoid figures that are in the center of this chamber.
Sam: What are they doing?
Matt: Well, as soon as you guys step and turn around, they all turn and look at you and begin to-- (sluggish footsteps).
Laura: We need that orb.
Taliesin: Once they're within range of us, I'm going to wait.
Matt: I mean, a lot of them are going to be right up on you, right now.
Joe: Can I sense what kind they are? Divine Sense, tell what type of fiend, celestial, or undead they are?
Matt: They are undead. They appear to be mostly of the baseline skeletal or zombie variety. It's a cluster of undead that are set here.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to tug on the rope and pull it up and toss the gem right smack-dab in the center of us. Unless somebody else wants to throw it. Eh, it doesn't matter. I just yanked it.
Matt: Okay, you yank it. Go ahead and make a roll. See if it's destroyed or not.
Taliesin: Nope, it's good.
Matt: All right. The stone (clattering) arcs in the center. The blue pulse-glow light billows out. You see the various skeletons and zombies charge into the light. They stop and stare at it. Let's see.
Taliesin: DC 15.
Liam: 30 rolls.
Sam: Pike, can't you kill masses of undead?
Matt: Okay, so of the 30 or so, about 20 of them stop and stare at the glow while you hear a bounding, heavy footfall sound behind where you came from.
Taliesin: He was not still within range?
Matt: No, you pulled the stone from where you were, inside the chamber now, so he's now rushing in after where the stone went.
Liam: This'll still work. Spread, and let him run right into the range of it?
Laura: Oh, we can get out of the way and let him maybe run into the undead that are--
Liam: As soon as he enters he's in range, isn't he?
Matt: Possibly. Up to you guys. But technically, undead are still rushing in toward you and they're immediately scrambling, with their claws and teeth, out there. Let's say, for the people at front here, it's going to be probably the two of you who first made it in, so three attacks against each of you. That is an 18 against you, Vax.
Liam: No.
Matt: That is a 20 against you.
Liam: No.
Matt: No, that misses. Three against you. Natural 20. A 20.
Laura: No.
Matt: And a natural one. All right, so while they scramble at you and you push them back at bay, one of them does manage to get through. It's going to be 12 points of slashing damage against you, Vex, as one of them swings at you with a rusty blade that carves past you.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. What are you guys doing?
Ashley: How many of them? About 30?
Matt: About 30 of them, yeah.
Liam: Pickle, can you release a Sarenrae bomb?
Ashley: Yeah, I'll take out my Mace of Disruption. I don't want to use any more spells.
Matt: You have your Channel Divinity, your turn undead. Or destroy undead.
Laura: Yeah, destroy undead.
Ashley: Do I want to wait?
Laura: I don't know how many undead we're going to face--
Liam: Vecna's going to be too powerful for a destroy or turn undead. It's for weak-ass shit like this.
Laura: But he might have, you know, I don't know what kind of army he's going to have up top, so it's up to you.
Ashley: Well, I have another one.
Laura: So maybe do one of them?
Ashley: So I can do it now, yeah.
Matt: Okay, so as you rush in toward where this Pulse Stone is, as the crowd of undead are gathered in, you hunker down, clutch your holy symbol, and release a wave of divine energy, the whispers and prayer of Sarenrae emanating from you like a caustic wave against undead energy. What's the DC on that?
Ashley: It's not written down.
Matt: It's your spell DC.
Laura: Oh, 18.
Matt: Okay, 18.
Sam: Wisdom, intelligence, or charisma.
Liam: Wisdom for clerics.
Sam: Has your wisdom gone up at all?
Liam: Eight, plus five, plus your proficiency bonus. 14, 20.
Laura: You're at six proficiency bonus, now. You're not at--
Ashley: I am? I didn't know that.
Laura: So your DC is 19. Sorry, Matt.
Matt: It's okay. I lost count. Even with their saves, four undead survive. As the shock wave emanates out from you, you watch as about two dozen of these various skeletons and zombies, many of which are grasping at you, turn to ash. One of them, you see it reaching out toward you, you get a glimpse of it. You can see, this one's a fresher corpse, one of the zombies. It has dirty blonde hair, a torn chin with stubble, and for a brief minute you can see-- it has this gash in its stomach, a partially eaten arm. For a brief minute, as it reaches out for you before the wave hits, you're like, "Aldor?" Turns to ash.
Marisha: Aldor?
Matt: A member of the Slayer's Take. Once the prized love of--
Sam: Felicia Day! (gasping)
Laura: No!
Marisha: No, Aldor!
Sam: Oh, no!
Matt: As the flash expands, you glance around and you see a withered gnome corpse has been reaching toward you. Mostly bald head in places. You recognize, this is one of your companions, Grubby, before the wave hits and he turns to ash.
Sam: You just killed two of our friends, Pike!
Laura: Don't do that to her!
Ashley: Fuck off, I didn't know!
Matt: All of these are long dead. As this burst of energy hits and all of a sudden dust and ash fill the chamber around you--
Laura: Did it do anything to the rot behemoth coming in?
Matt: The rot behemoth behind-- what is the DC on him?
Liam: Challenge rating of four or lower.
Matt: Yeah, it's higher than a challenge rating four, so it doesn't affect him at all. But the four of you, easy enough to cleave him down, but we'll see if he's even affected by the stone. So the last four that are there, as they charge into the stone, nope! None of them make their save, so the last four that are still there, all stop and stare and glare at this stone in the center of the chamber. The rot behemoth comes looming in. (crashing) What's the DC?
Taliesin: DC is 15.
Matt: 14, does not make it. By one!
Liam: Don't worry, Matt. Your luck is coming upstairs.
Matt: That's true, that's true. So the rot behemoth (crashing) through the door and then stays there, staring at the stone, blocking the doorway and holding it in place. But now this chamber's open.
Laura: Should we kill this shit while we're stunned?
Sam: No, we should just run up!
Laura: How do we know we're not going to run into a whole bunch more?
Taliesin: Which is why we're going to keep the rope. We're going to go all the way up the stairs, and when we're ready, we're going to tug like a motherfucker.
Laura: Okay, and then all these things are going to chase after us?
Matt: They'll keep following you. Every time you pull the stone, they're going to come toward you.
Laura: So we might as well kill them now, while they're stunned.
Taliesin: All right, one at a time. Let's kill one at a time.
Sam: The giant's going to take more than one hit.
Taliesin: Yeah, but we're going to get him.
Matt: We'll say, easy enough for you guys to coordinate. The skeletons are easy enough to destroy. The rot behemoth, all in one swoop, you guys can take down as one quick blast on it. One of the skeletons, you also recognize: a heavily charred zombie making a horrid sighing sound as it's sitting there, staring at the stone. You see the remains of Vander.
Joe: Is he damaged?
Matt: Burnt to a cinder. The last thing you saw was him being immolated and screaming.
Joe: I'd like to Channel Divinity and Control Undead.
Matt: Okay. And with that, before you destroy the zombie--
Joe: It's a wisdom save.
Matt: Wisdom save? Three. Nope. You've got two zombies. Delilah and now your previous ally, Vander. Turns from the stone. (wheezing)
Joe: This is fucking dark.
Taliesin: I'm really excited about the notion of a Delilah potted plant.
Joe: It's my brother's character from our home group!
Liam: You are now Michonne, from Walking Dead. You got two zombies.
Travis: Bring them into the CRU, you got them!
Joe: Zombie Vander, aw man. This is like, rattling whatever blackened heart my character has. Okay.
Liam: All right, well, up we go, then, yeah?
Taliesin: Let's do this.
Liam: I'm going to look for traps, as we go.
Matt: All right, make an investigation check.
Sam: Everyone all healed up to full?
Laura: No.
Marisha: No.
Sam: Should we pause and heal, or--?
Laura: Pause for 30 minutes and heal?
Travis: Vasselheim was just out the window.
Liam: Two miles away, ish.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18, okay.
Sam: If you take a potion, you're full. Right? Don't you have your thing going, or no, is that gone?
Travis: Beacon of Hope.
Laura: Beacon of Hope just means it heals the max that a healing spell or a healing potion can do. You don't automatically go to full health.
Travis: 2d8, 16.
Sam: Oh, I didn't know that.
Matt: How long does Beacon of Hope last?
Liam: One minute.
Matt: Beacon is gone.
Laura: That's okay. Do you have a healing spell for people?
Ashley: I do.
Travis: Are we doing a group thing right now?
Liam: Are we short resting or we doing little healies?
Laura: I don't think we have 30 minutes.
Marisha: We need a full 30 minutes to do a quick short rest?
Matt: Technically it's a full hour, by the rules. I let it slide a little faster in times of intensity. I'd allow a 30-minute quick rest, but that's still--
Taliesin: I would not say no to it, but I can live without it.
Laura: I don't know, I mean, they're fighting at Vasselheim right now.
Travis: Yeah, we're at the gates.
Marisha: I'm at 94 hit points, I'm down about 50 or so hit points.
Liam: I'm telling you, though, it's this or nothing. If we fall here, if we fail, then it's fucked, so even if it destroys half the city, it's better to have all of us at full fighting potential.
Joe: I would like to cast Death Ward on myself. 4th-level spell slot.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: All right, do it. Do the short rest. Just do it.
Sam: Wait, we're doing a short rest? Wait, who needs it?
Taliesin: We honestly all do.
Laura: We all need healing. I'm 40 points down.
Marisha: I'm 50 points down, and I burned both of my shape change. Who else is down far?
Travis: A quarter, or half, of Vasselheim, is--
Sam: Don't you have a healing spell?
Ashley: I do, but it depends on the roll.
Sam: No no, because it maximizes it.
Laura: No, we don't have it anymore.
Ashley: Yeah, so if I roll bad, or--
Liam: No, but we have hit dice. You don't need the spells.
Sam: Bye, Vasselheim.
Matt: All right, so you guys are taking a short rest in the inside of Entropis?
Marisha: No, look, super short.
Matt: There is no super-short rest. It's a short rest.
Sam: Seems terrible.
Matt: Vasselheim was in sight when you were outside.
Marisha: I don't know! What do you want?
Matt: I'm just letting you know!
Sam: We have potions! Can't we drink potions?
Joe: Listen, you're not going to need the potions after today. I'm just saying.
Laura: Might as well take them.
Travis: Don't take your superior, though.
Sam: No, we have other ones, though.
Laura: Can you try healing and see what it does?
Ashley: Yeah, I'll do Mass Cure Wounds on you guys.
Laura: What does that do?
Marisha: I don't know, but we also, we broke down the barrier, so Vasselheim can defend itself a little more.
Travis: One-sixth of the pie.
Marisha: I'm 50 points down and without my beast shape.
Laura: You don't have beast shape?
Marisha: I used it to go earth elemental, because I thought the Briarwood fight might be a little bit more beefy than it was. But I don't necessarily need it.
Travis: Vote as a group. Hand up if you want a short rest.
Sam: No.
Travis: No hands? Just put your hand up if you want it.
Taliesin: I will admit, it would do a lot for me.
Travis: Keyleth, put your hand up.
Liam: I'm going to put up because I think that these two need it.
Travis: I'll tie-break it.
Laura: So short rest? Short rest. Okay.
Sam: Vasselheim.
Marisha: To quote the leaders of Vasselheim, "They have defended themselves through many forms of battle."
Joe: That vampire's going to be up there, full strength. He's going to be back. He's going to be back full strength.
Laura: He might not be back full strength yet!
Joe: He'll be back something.
Laura: He takes a while to rest up.
Joe: It's 25 a minute, isn't it?
Travis: It's super fast.
Matt: He regenerates 25-- Well, there's a lot of things at work here. It depends. Roll a religion check.
Travis: Natural one.
Taliesin: I'll try a religion check.
Joe: I'm a paladin with terrible religion skills. Blind faith.
Matt: All right, but still roll a religion check. Seeing as how undead is your domain.
Liam: Just roll a natural 20, Joe.
Joe: I rolled a natural 18.
Matt: Plus?
Joe: Zero, for religion.
Matt: Okay, okay. You know this because of your experience with undead and amassing yourself a necromantic energy since breaking your oath long ago. When a vampire is reduced to zero hit points and goes into mist form, it has two hours to return to its resting place. When it reaches its resting place, it has to rest for one hour. Once it rests for the one hour, it goes back to one hit point and then it regenerates 25 hit points, or at least, Sylas, every single round.
Liam: Roughly how much time has passed since we went from--?
Matt: I'd say 30-ish minutes or so. 30 or 40, because you've been slowly stealthing your way through, being careful.
Liam: Right right, but probably his box of dirt is not--
Matt: So if you take a short rest, you're probably going to look at a Sylas waiting for you somewhere up top.
Laura: It's going to take two hours to get up the tower?
Sam: It's a big tower. There's lots of shit up there.
Matt: No, meaning, if you guys take a short rest, he needs to rest for an hour. It took you 40 minutes since that happened to get to the tower. If you take a short rest, you're going to have to deal with a Sylas.
Taliesin: I mean fuck it, if we heal ourselves--
Sam: Scanlan's got healing. Scanlan Two's got healing. We can pump you guys up.
Travis: Because he also turns people, right?
Taliesin: He does turn people.
Travis: I barely made that save.
Laura: We need to not rest.
Taliesin: How much heal do you get out of a potion?
Ashley: Who's bad?
Marisha: I'm not great.
Ashley: You're bad? Who else?
Joe: I could use some, seeing that I have tank duties.
Sam: How many can you include?
Ashley: Okay, is anybody down? I'm going to do Prayer of Healing. I want to save Mass Cure Wounds.
Marisha: I'm at 94 hit points, so I'm down--
Joe: I'm down 42, but I could probably heal--
Matt: You could take a short rest, but understand and be prepared with the knowledge of knowing that you're also going-- put some things in your chamber that will be helpful against a vampire.
Sam: Scanlan Two has tons of healing spells that he can use, so use them. He's going to be dead soon anyway.
Marisha: You guys don't want us losing any of our spellcasters right now. I'm at 94. It's not a lot, it's not bad, but it's bad enough. I'm a third of my hit points down.
Matt: You do have a battery of low-level spell slots right now that can be used to heal things up if you want to.
Sam: Yeah, I can heal you and heal you and heal you until you're all done.
Marisha: Yeah, but every time you heal me and heal me and heal me, it's taking away from something else mechanically.
Sam: It's a level one bullshit spell slot.
Taliesin: But it's also healing that could be done in combat. That's what we're meaning.
Marisha: I'm resigning my decision right now.
Matt: Make a choice here, guys. You're wasting time in the tower.
Sam: No short rest! Heal some people, I'll heal some more. We got this. We got lots of healing.
Ashley: Okay, I'll just use a 2nd-level for 16 points of healing for six people who need it.
Sam: Great!
Marisha: 16 points? I'll take that.
Laura: I'm taking one.
Sam: I will take it as well.
Taliesin: How many people have taken it so far?
Sam: You said up to six people? I'll take that.
Marisha: 110, I'm still 31 hit points down.
Sam: I will cast Healing Word, or Scanlan Two will cast Healing Word at 2nd-level for you.
Marisha: For me?
Sam: Yeah. That's--
Matt: You can use Cure Wounds as opposed to Healing Word.
Sam: I don't have Cure Wounds.
Matt: Oh, that's right. Never mind.
Sam: That's nine more points for you.
Marisha: For me?
Sam: Yeah. Oh, wait! I can sing a Song of Rest.
Matt: That takes a short rest to do.
Sam: Yeah. That makes sense.
Marisha: I could do my speech if I had a short rest.
Laura: Well, you can do the speech as we climb up the tower!
Joe: How much are you short? She's 22 short?
Laura: The speech does what? Does the speech regain hit points?
Matt: Ten minutes to say the speech.
Laura: So as we climb the tower, she could be saying it?
Matt: Perhaps, yeah.
Sam: I will heal you another 2nd-level healing spell.
Laura: A Greater Healing Potion is 4d4?
Matt: You've got it. 4d4 plus four.
Sam: That's another 12 points.
Matt: Consider now, as you guys climb the tower, if you have any buff spells, if you have any long-lasting things that you want to utilize for the coming fray. Freedom of Movement, Death Ward, all the things you guys want to prepare with, now's the time to do it.
Marisha: 141, I'm full.
Liam: I'm going to, when we're right on the verge, when we think we're right on the verge, I'm blessing you and you.
Travis: I think this is the verge.
Marisha: Is this the verge? Because if this is the verge--
Matt: You still have the tower to climb, but know, if you have spells, like buffs, to cast that aren't concentration and last a while, now's the time to do it.
Marisha: Like, an hour a while?
Joe: Tiamat gave her 12. I'm going to give 18 to myself out of my healing pool.
Marisha: Pike and I burn all of our 4th level spell splots to do--
Ashley: Splots!
Marisha: Splots! Do all of our spell splots! To cast Freedom of Movement on anybody. With the exception of Percy, who already has it.
Joe: What does Freedom of Movement do?
Matt: Wait, how many slots is that for you guys, then?
Marisha: Three each.
Matt: Three each. Okay.
Marisha: Except, we didn't account for--
Sam: Scanlan Two.
Marisha: Or Arkhan.
Joe: What's happening?
Matt: Okay. Anything else you want to buff with?
Laura: Yes, I'm going to invoke my Blessing of the Dawnfather.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Matt: No Death Wards?
Joe: I did--
Matt: You did Death Ward to yourself?
Travis: She has a Death Ward.
Ashley: Wait a second. One of us is without Freedom of Movement.
Laura: Scanlan Two.
Taliesin: I have it automatically.
Marisha: He has it automatically.
Ashley: Understand.
Laura: Can anybody cast some Death Wards too?
Joe: Wait, I didn't get Freedom of Movement?
Sam: No.
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: No.
Sam: We did it with an earring. Sorry, you weren't on.
Joe: I'm over kicking a can in the corner.
Sam: We're all on iPhones and you're on a Windows phone.
Ashley: I don't have another 4th-level, unless I burn a 5th-level, for Death Ward.
Joe: Now, I have some funky shit. I have a Cleansing Touch, anyway, that can end a spell on me or any willing creature that I touch, so that should help.
Matt: So what's the plan, guys?
Sam: Wait, we're doing things that last an hour?
Laura: We're doing things, yeah. We're doing it.
Sam: Shit.
Marisha: I mean, I don't know-- Unless we want to try and get higher up before we go.
Matt: That's up to you guys.
Marisha: Do we think this is it? Are we sure this is it?
Liam: Is it one of these guys where we can see the height of the tower, or--?
Matt: You can't see the height of the tower. It goes up into another floor.
Marisha: Okay, so this means, anything we encounter, if it's not fucking Vecna, then we're barreling through it and going straight up. Because we've burned everything.
Matt: If you want to hold your spells until you get higher, I'll let you do that. Up to you.
Liam: There's a death knight.
Marisha: I don't know what's worth it. Do we have any idea of how much higher this tower goes?
Matt: I mean, it goes pretty high.
Liam: Oh, excuse me. Where is Vecna right now? How high up?
Matt: Right above you.
Liam: Right above us, way up, or a floor up?
Matt: Way up.
Liam: Way up. Okay.
Marisha: Do we want to try and jog another ten minutes before doing this?
Taliesin: Let's get halfway up the tower.
Marisha: Okay, okay. Before we burn everything--
Matt: Just letting you guys be prepared here, because you're Vox Machina.
Marisha: Okay, we're going to go ten more minutes up and I'm going to give a speech as we go.
Laura: So I'm invoking the blessing as we get closer.
Ashley: Does anybody else want Death Ward?
Taliesin: No, I'm good.
Marisha: I say, okay, guys, as we climb this tower, I know there's a lot of stairs, but the stairs are going to be fucking nothing compared to Vecna. But holy fuck, these are a lot of fucking stairs.
Sam: This is inspiring.
Taliesin: The stairs are a metaphor.
Marisha: The stairs are a metaphor. Each stair that we get across is going to be like another step further into defeating Vecna. You know? With each stair-- I'm winded.
Laura: The stairs are long, but they're not infinite.
Marisha: The stairs are long, but they are not infinite. Be good and now we're almost there, guys! We're almost there! This is it! This is it. (sobbing and panting)
Laura: I feel so inspired, Keyleth. Thank you.
Sam: Wow, that was so inspiring.
Marisha: This is it, you guys! Just keep going up the stairs! And that's my speech.
Matt: Okay, take your 17-- no, 19--
Marisha: 19 hit points.
Matt: 19 temporary hit points. Including you.
Joe: 19 temporary, yeah.
Marisha: And they're temporary, not--
Laura: In addition to our plus two, so now we have 21.
Marisha: Do we heal above that?
Matt: Yeah. Well, you get temporary hit points, like a buffer shield.
Marisha: Right, so those 19 go first.
Matt: Correct. Okay.
Laura: Oh god, oh god, oh god. Okay, are we getting near the top?
Joe: Let me know, because I'm going to throw up.
Travis: Who wants the Death Ward?
Marisha: Yeah, and Pike and I cast whenever seems appropriate.
Matt: Right.
Travis: But who wants it? Who needs it?
Sam: I mean, who's going to die?
Taliesin: This one, definitely.
Laura: Okay, here's the thing. The people that have the trammels should probably have a Death Ward, too.
Travis: I've got my one hit point regenerate, regenerate, regenerate.
Laura: Okay, you're good.
Sam: Pike can have one.
Ashley: I have my armor.
Laura: Okay, so that bumps you back up once you've gone down once. So really, he needs-- and you, well, no. You won't come back right away.
Liam: If I have the Death Ward, I will pop back up.
Matt: There is only one person that can complete the Incantation of Sealing.
Sam: That's me.
Travis: Sealing of what? Oh, the trammels?
Matt: Once the trammels are in--
Travis: You've got to put it on Scanlan.
Taliesin: He has to do it. Without Scanlan, everything goes to shit.
Liam: What about Scanlan Two? Can Scanlan Two do it?
Sam: Technically. He's not going to last that long, guys.
Ashley: I cast Death Ward on Scanlan.
Sam: Pike, I accept your blessing.
Ashley: Scanlan, if we get through this, you know what that means, don't you?
Sam: No, what does it mean?
Taliesin: It means that your clone's going to get very lucky. You, on the other hand, no.
Ashley: You'll just have to live. You wait and find out.
Sam: Well, what does it mean? What could it mean?!
Ashley: Just live! You'll see!
Sam: Just then, the real Scanlan comes back from peeing. He's like, what'd I miss, guys? (laughter)
Matt: Ascending the stairs, you climb and climb, the spiral continuing upward. Both of the stairs spiral upward, so which direction did you take? The right, or the left?
Laura: The right. No, wait! Which hand does Vecna chop off?
Matt: The left.
Travis: What does your speech do, Keyleth, again?
Marisha: It gives you an additional 19 hit points. Temporary hit points. So add plus 19 on top. When you lose them, they're gone. Huh?
Sam: We're trying to decide whether we went left or right up the stairs.
Taliesin: We went right.
Matt: Okay. You spiral upward and upward and upward, climbing an extremely long period of time. Your legs begin to ache a little bit. Then another floor opens up. It appears the tower is now divided into two chambers. From the bottom floor up, it's now two sides to a tower and you're on the right side. The hallway curves around the outer edge of the tower. On the opposite side, you can see the staircase continues upward. The interior of this chamber appears to be an incredible arcane laboratory, occupying the center space of the tower inside. You see six overlapping circles of dulled runes and glyphs that encompass the entire 30-foot walkway between here and the stairs. Shelves and tables of countless glass tubes and metallic vices lay out across tables, organized in a near-OCD pattern. Tomes and books line the inner chamber walls. What do you guys do?
Liam: I use Divine Sense and feel for undead. 60 feet.
Matt: You sense around. No undead in the 60-foot radius.
Laura: Does this feel like it might be Delilah's room? Her chamber?
Matt: You don't know.
Taliesin: From where I am, can I recognize any of the book titles? Any of it?
Matt: From where you are now? You can't even see. It's too far away.
Laura: Is there any traps in this room?
Matt: You can check for traps.
Liam: Fan out.
Joe: Can you sense Vecna?
Taliesin: Yes. If Vecna moves, we will know.
Laura: What is that? Investigation?
Matt: Investigation.
Liam: 24 for me.
Laura: 14 for me.
Matt: Okay. I mean, there's symbols across the ground here, but they seem pretty inert. Three of the circles in the center of the chamber appear to be ready to trigger. By proximity. A five-foot proximity.
Liam: Where's the exit to this room?
Matt: It's across the way, around the outside of the tower wall, so you can follow along.
Liam: We can go around the edge.
Matt: Most of you can. It's a very tight walk to get through. You have a few large individuals.
Liam: What's making that so tight? Is there one trap that's making it so tight, or all of them?
Matt: There are three large circles that overlap with each other that are triggerable, and then there are three inert ones that overlap. It's like a series of Venn diagrams.
Liam: Did they seem arcane in nature?
Matt: Yes, they do.
Liam: Do I have a shot in hell? Of disarming them?
Travis: I take out the Immovable Rod and have it in my hand.
Matt: Okay. Make an intelligence check.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: These traps are far beyond your understanding to disable.
Liam: Okay, okay.
Matt: You glance at these and go, "Oh, this is bad."
Travis: We would need Dispels.
Laura: What if we go-- no, the people that are small go around. I'll bamf Trinket out on one side, put Grog in, go back, put Arkhan in, go back? We work our way around the runes.
Sam: What about the zombies?
Laura: The zombies are little. They can work their way around.
Sam: No no, his slave zombies.
Taliesin: They're little.
Travis: His dead brother, and--
Joe: Aw man, I wasn't thinking about it until you brought it up again! Like, I was actually in an okay place!
Travis: I'm sorry, I thought, you know-- Got to pay respect.
Laura: Are you guys okay with this plan?
Liam: (Marlon Brando voice) I could've been somebody, Arkhan. Instead of a zombie. Because I am.
Joe: (Marlon Brando voice) Vander, pick up the mic, boy, and hit me in the head with it.
Matt: I need everybody except for Arkhan and Grog to go ahead and make a general dexterity check.
Laura: Oh, fuck. I thought we would be able to avoid it. Natural 20!
Taliesin: 24.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Scanlan Two is okay. He made a 17. Scanlan One had a one.
Matt: Okay. So. What'd you get?
Marisha: Oh, I had to roll?
Matt: Everybody except for Arkhan and--
Marisha: Oh, everyone but for them! Dex save.
Liam: Oh, who's near me? Could I retcon and say that I'm--
Matt: Dexterity check. You add your dexterity modifier.
Liam: What did you get? You got a natural one?
Matt: Scanlan did, yeah.
Liam: If I'm next to him, because I give plus two to saves, does that futz with it?
Matt: It's not an ability check, it's a saving throw. One is an auto-fail for a saving throw.
Joe: They weren't within ten feet of me, were they?
Matt: No, next would have been partially across. Because you couldn't get across, you're too wide.
Joe: Fair enough.
Marisha: 13.
Matt: Okay, that's fine. And you got? A four? Okay. So. As you guys are moving across, Scanlan and Pike, you both are clustered next to each other. Unfortunately, Pike begins to wobble. You reach to grab her and pull her in, but the armored weight is too strong and you both accidentally step out of place. At which point, the glyph to your left suddenly flares. You watch as, in a flash of sudden arcane energy, a cage of force-like power encompasses the both of you in a cube. You see these bars of crackling energy (lighting crackle) around. You're both currently stuck within this arcane entrapment. The gnomes.
Laura: Can Scanlan Two dispel that shit?
Sam: I don't know Dispel Magic.
Marisha: Can you Dimension Door?
Sam: Good question. If only the person in here with me was also of gnome size. Oh wait! She is. We'll Dimension Door out.
Liam: Do we want to try to get everyone else across before you do that? Maybe it's a one-time-only?
Laura: Everybody else went already.
Matt: Well, they're currently blocking the path, now, with this cage.
Liam: Oh, okay. Well, I meant the necklace, but.
Sam: I don't know how this spell works. I hope it works. We might get hit on the way out.
Matt: Okay. As you clasp Pike and complete the incantation, I need you to make a charisma saving throw.
Travis: Come on, buddy! Come on! Come on!
Sam: A charisma save? Is this magic?
Matt: It is.
Sam: Okay. 20.
Matt: 20? 20 will do it.
Sam: I've never had to make a charisma saving throw before.
Taliesin: You got very high.
Matt: So. As you grab her and you both begin to transport outside of the cage, you feel the force of it push back, but the nature of your innate magical ability manages to puncture through that threshold and then both of you reappear at the opposite side, no worse for wear. The cage is still present, though, and it's now blocking the path across. The rest of you get across fine. It's the gnomes that got stuck, and now the two of you are on the opposite end. You have 30 feet between you and the opposite side, and that walkway is entirely closed off.
Joe: We can do this.
Travis: Yeah. I'm not worried one bit.
Sam: Wait, did you switch your boots?
Travis: I did!
Laura: You can Spider Climb to the ceiling!
Travis: Do you want to Cirque du Soleil this thing? We'll hold arms and I'll walk on the ceiling?
Sam: Two shirtless, hunky dudes holding each other?! In crazy poses?
Liam: Definitely take your armor off for this, though. Definitely.
Marisha: Not for any particular reason.
Taliesin: We still have the pot. You could get some oil and really make this work.
Joe: My answer to your question was-- Cut to.
Travis: Yeah, I will walk up on the wall so that I'm sticking out.
Taliesin: That's a lot of powerful--
Joe: Oh, I have four fingers.
Matt: Okay. The force cage encompasses too much of the wall space to go sideways, so you'll have to go across the ceiling.
Travis: Because I was inverted, bullshit. Top Gun? Thank you.
Matt: As you climb the top and you pull, Arkhan, you tuck your feet up underneath.
Travis: Treat me like your fucking dragons-- French girl, whatever.
Liam: Paint me like one of your chromatic girls.
Joe: You like volleyball, bro? Just thinking, if we make it out of here, we should play some beach volleyball some time.
Travis: Hand wraps, get some aviators? It'd be totally cool.
Matt: Could you both please make athletics checks for me?
Travis: I'm still raging.
Matt: Yeah, you've been raging this whole time. You're the most intense spotter right now.
Joe: This is an athletics check?
Matt: Yes.
Joe: 22.
Travis: 25.
Matt: Step by step, you carry the heavy, armored, red-scaled dragonborn across the threshold of the chamber. You release him and both safely come to the opposite side of the laboratory.
Laura: Good job, guys.
Liam: Is it hot in here?
Travis: Not a problem. What happened to you guys?
Joe: Did you guys see that?
Sam: Yes. We did.
Matt: You continue up the stairs?
All: Yes.
Liam: Point of order. I know roughly how far Vecna is, right? So I should be able to tell, as we're getting closer, roughly how much distance? Halfway up the tower, three quarters, et cetera?
Matt: You guys are, based on far you've climbed, you're about halfway up the tower.
Taliesin: I would like to do one thing before we leave the room. I would like to take something, set it on fire, and toss it on those books over there.
Liam: Oh, that's dark.
Laura: Nice.
Marisha: We're holding on our Freedom of Movement, right? We decided that? Until we get higher?
Liam: How long did it take us to get to this point?
Matt: I'd say a little over ten minutes or so of continuous climbing.
Liam: Who knows what is above us. It could be slower for the upper half.
Sam: Fire stays where it is, typically. It doesn't move up.
Laura: We're fine. I like it.
Taliesin: There's nothing else to catch fire in here. It'll be nice.
Travis: Is there anything else to catch fire that would travel upward toward us as we're climbing a towering inferno?
Matt: It's a stone chamber.
Sam: Full of chemicals.
Taliesin: It'll be noxious, but brief. I take a torch. I actually have one last Whitestone seal that's flash-powdered. Wrap it, light it, and toss it on the counter.
Matt: Okay. It clatters and the torch burns. The powder (flaring).
Taliesin: That'll do. Walk away.
Matt: You guys continue up the next set of spiral stairs, climbing higher and higher up Entropis. You can see, every now and then, one of the various vein-like cracks of energy that's holding the tower together. You can glance out and see, very obscured, movement in the distance. It's too fractured; too much diffraction. Continuing upward, you come to a second, or another, floor. About four minutes of climbing. This next half-chamber, you see dozens of sets of chains and manacles affixed to the walls, where tortured corpses are currently dangling from them, left in pieces. The scent is terrible. Decay is strong.
Liam: I cast Divine Sense. Undead.
Matt: No undead.
Liam: Traps?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Liam: 18.
Matt: Okay. No traps in this chamber.
Taliesin: Do we recognize any of the corpses?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: I had to do it. Natural 20.
Marisha: Oh no!
Taliesin: I get to know. The rest of you don't get to know.
Matt: Most of the corpses around here have been mutilated to the point where it's hard to even recognize. This was essentially a torture chamber. This was a gathering information, this was a point-making chamber. The ones you do see around here, nothing catches your eye. One does seem familiar. You look and see, and it's been a while, but you remember the face of a Scalebearer Desona, who traveled across the Ozmit Sea with you aboard a skyship. Glancing around, the bodies appear to have been cleaned of any useful items. This is mainly a for-utility-and-fun chamber.
Travis: Any weapons or items besides the chains and manacles on the floor?
Matt: The room is clean.
Liam: How far above us is Vecna?
Matt: About 120 feet.
Laura: We should cast it now. We should do all of our casting.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Now I invoke the Blessing of the Dawnfather.
Travis: Call it out.
Marisha: I'm waiting for Pike.
Ashley: Let's do it.
Matt: Okay. Doing a round of what spells to who?
Marisha: Freedom of Movement to Scanlan One, myself, Vax.
Matt: So only three Freedoms of Movement?
Sam: That's all she has, right?
Marisha: That's all I've got. From Keyleth.
Matt: From Keyleth, right. And then, Pike?
Ashley: Freedom of Movement on Vex, Grog, and Pike.
Liam: I'm putting the wings out now.
Matt: The raven wings emerge. Pike? You said you were doing Death Ward?
Laura: Oh yeah, she did it on Scanlan.
Ashley: Death Ward at a 5th-level.
Matt: Okay, so 5th slot's taken.
Sam: Scanlan will invoke the Blessing of the Knowing Mistress.
Matt: You watch as the forehead space, where once you had seen the briefly visible third eye of Ioun, now emblazoned like a lantern light, this bright purple eye. In that moment, you watch as Scanlan's pupils turn to silver.
Laura: Whoa! Are you still you?
Sam: I can't see anything! Everything's silver! Oh god, I'm blind! I'm just kidding. I can see fine.
Taliesin: I charge Diplomacy up.
Ashley: And I will invoke the Blessing of the Everlight.
Matt: And with that, you watch as this bright light emerges from the back of Pike's shoulders as a familiar, but much more vibrant and strong set of divine golden wings, not made of energy, but visibly beautiful gold feathered wings expand from her back. Your feet lift off the ground and (whooshing). As the voice of Sarenrae whispers into her ear, "I'm with you."
Ashley: (squealing) Okay! Thank you!
Laura: I bamf Trinket out.
Matt: (bear noises)
Laura: If you want to Polymorph him?
Sam: Now's the time? Polymorph only lasts-- is it an hour or ten minutes? I've got to learn this.
Matt: Polymorph, I think, is an hour with concentration. Could be wrong, but I think it is. Do note, you still have another series of staircases that are pretty tight.
Laura: Okay, we should go up. We should keep going.
Liam: Also, I'm going to say this now, in advance. It might not be possible, but if we get to a door, I'm thinking ahead of time, if we think we're about to step out, I want to cast Bless on the three half-elves right before going out. That might not be possible, but it's in my head to do it.
Matt: Okay, good to keep in mind.
Joe: We should send Delilah in first.
Sam: Yeah, sure.
Marisha: That's actually a good idea.
Sam: Scanlan Two is going to dump a 3rd-level spell into the Tome of Isolation to reveal the hidden text. Is it only revealed to Scanlan Two, or is it revealed to everyone?
Matt: Let me see the item again. Well, the text remains for an hour, yep.
Liam: You're blessed. If it happens, hashtag blessed, a d4 rolled for every attack or saving throw.
Matt: Once the text is revealed, technically, anybody with any sort of penchant for arcane knowledge could attempt it, but you have the best chance.
Laura: So you don't need to do that.
Sam: No, I do need to, to reveal the text. It's hidden otherwise.
Matt: Correct, but the text is revealed for an hour. If, in theory, you were to fall, and the book could be found--
Travis: I got it. I'll pick it up and start reading.
Matt: Yep. It's more difficult, but it's possible.
Sam: I have a book I need to read.
Marisha: It's possible, but (uncertain noise)? Is what his face was?
Matt: Because he was the chosen of Ioun, he can read without issue, but the text itself is still very arcane in nature.
Laura: He's the only one that can finish the sealing.
Marisha: Right. Then Keyleth turns to Vax Whatever happens, lest it be trite, stay with us. Casts Guidance for the next minute, which gives you 1d4 on ability checks.
Laura: Right before we go out, you mean?
Marisha: Yeah, before we move. Just for the start of it.
Matt: You guys begin to climb up the next staircase? All right. You're beginning to spiral up the next length of it. You get about 80 or so feet up before-- are you leading this charge visibly?
Travis: Actually, Delilah is.
Matt: You're sending Delilah ahead of you?
Laura: When we get up to the top.
Matt: As you're coursing around the edge, the stairs stop into another chamber. The chamber levels off.
Liam: Up so that we're seeing the edge of steps at the top? All right, I'm stealthing.
Matt: Okay, make a stealth check.
Joe: Very quickly, Grog, give me another longsword for zombie Vander.
Travis: Last one I have. You got it.
Liam: Are we Pass Without a Trace right now? 44.
Matt: 44? So you stealth up around the edge and you see now, where once it was divided into two chambers, it now seems the chambers converged once more into a single room. It's not very big, and the tower's been slowly tapering the higher up you go. The room is fairly empty. You see a few vases in the corners and some basic ancient decor. Standing, not noticing you're there, you see three figures in full dark armor. Similar to who you fought in the ziggurat, or the one who was guarding the tunnel that led up into Thar Amphala.
Liam: They don't look like the big kahuna, they look like the underlings?
Matt: The underlings. You see them in the same dark, horned armor. There's one that's humanoid sized and one that looks to be halfling size. Or two of them, halfling size.
Liam: From my hidden position, I want to see if I see any traps in the room.
Matt: Make an investigation check for the immediate entry.
Liam: I'm not entering. I want to do it from my peeky spot.
Matt: For the immediate entry for what you can see. You can't investigate from across the room.
Travis: They're facing away from us?
Matt: They're not facing away, but they don't seem to acknowledge his presence yet. They don't see him.
Liam: Yeah. 23 for investigation.
Matt: You don't see any traps in the immediate vicinity of the room.
Liam: So what I'm going to do is slowly back down to the party, relate what I just saw. Three of them. What do we do?
Sam: Standard undead?
Laura: No, they're death knights.
Matt: They're not death knights.
Liam: They're dudes in armor. They're lackeys.
Taliesin: Are they humans or undead?
Matt: Can't tell. Fully armored.
Joe: How far up the stairs?
Matt: From where you guys are right now, they're about 30 feet around the way and then ten feet into the chamber.
Joe: I'll Divine Sense, which is up to 60 feet. Are they fiends, celestial, or undead?
Matt: Nope.
Joe: It looks like they're human.
Liam: Is it difficult to use that silenced weapon of yours?
Taliesin: Once I use it, I've got ten minutes of silence. I was curious that if I get close enough to Vecna, he can't talk. I was hoping to save that, because that might be a thing where we can keep him from casting vocal spells.
Marisha: Can we stealth around them and not fight them at all?
Liam: It's a small room. You and I can probably handle two, but that leaves a third.
Matt: You see one staircase, one final staircase, that winds around the corner. Actually, you haven't seen it yet.
Travis: There's no chance you could remove the stone from the middle of the floor and have them fall?
Marisha: That's what I was looking for. Can Keyleth take a peek and see what's up?
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Plus ten.
Marisha: Do you still have that?
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Dope. That's real good. 39.
Matt: 39? As you curl around the edge and glance inside, you recognize this chamber. When you scried in here previously, this was the chamber that was being left by the death knight as he ascended to the top of the tower. This is the last stop.
Marisha: (inarticulate yelling) Okay.
Laura: Can you open up the floor underneath them?
Marisha: Does it look like the floor opens?
Matt: It doesn't look like it's a trap door or anything.
Laura: It's stone. Could you open the floor and let them fall?
Liam: Could Stubby and I each target one and you yank one into the ground simultaneously? Can you do that right now?
Sam: I could hold one.
Taliesin: Let's have you two take some out and send the big guys in.
Marisha: It's worked stone.
Matt: It's all worked stone. It's all very carved.
Sam: I could hold one. Paralyze one of them.
Travis: If we don't think the room or the setup will fuck us up, the big boys can go in and probably handle it. Or we can follow your attacks.
Liam: We don't want to create a stir. We might, so it's better that we do two quietly and leave one left. Can you throw your fucking Manners ball at the third?
Taliesin: It's better against weaker opponents.
Laura: It's a thin staircase. Three people won't be able to attack at once.
Taliesin: I'll have ten minutes of silence.
Matt: Two at most would be able to strike at once.
Laura: So you and me go up, sneak attack, fall back and let somebody run in and take it out. Yeah?
Liam: Yeah, so who's going in?
Matt: You have the taller one in the center and the two smaller ones flanking.
Laura: We'll take the smaller ones.
Travis: I would send in the dragonborn, because they're all alive.
Joe: Yeah.
Laura: Get ready to fight once we take the two out.
Liam: Tell me again, the three that are in this room?
Matt: There's a human-sized one in the center and two halfling-sized ones on either side.
Travis: Jocks Machina does not get hazed.
Joe: Stop bullying Jocks Machina!
Liam: Arkhan, we're going to handle the small. Right after, you'll handle the tall.
Joe: Sounds good to me.
Laura: We sneak up. Is it auto-crit if it's a sneak attack?
Matt: If they're surprised.
Laura: Okay, are they surprised?
Liam: I stealthed. You have to stealth, right?
Matt: You have to stealth.
Laura: Okay, 29.
Liam: I will go a split second before my sister.
Matt: Both of you guys curl up to the edge and you see the three of them. What are you doing?
Laura: We're attacking the two smallest.
Liam: Throwing on the right, throwing on the left.
Matt: You're attacking the one on the right, and you're the one on the left. Go ahead and roll your attacks.
Laura: Is it auto-crit?
Matt: If it hits, it's an auto-crit, but you have advantage on the attack because they don't know you're there.
Laura: Oh, that's good. 30 on the first hit.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: They all hit. That's good. Four.
Laura: Oh my god, I rolled four sixes! And a five.
Liam: I'm doing okay, too.
Laura: 29 times two is what?
Sam: Both of you guys got big damage.
Joe: What is it? 29 times two?
Matt: That's 58.
Laura: 58 plus eight, so 64. 66!
Liam: 80 for the first.
Laura: That's the first attack.
Matt: All right, so a second attack for each of you.
Laura: 19.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: 12 for my second.
Matt: Does not hit.
Liam: No, they all hit. All my attacks hit. 12 damage for the second.
Matt: Okay, what's the damage on the second one?
Laura: 18 on the second.
Matt: Both of the armored ones on the side take the hit and crumple, fall back, helmet falling off. Unconscious.
Laura: I immediately move to the side so he can run through.
Joe: So the guy turns around? And I'm-- (whoosh)
Matt: They're still in the center of the chamber. They're about 15 feet from the top of the stairs. The two of you are going to rush in? Arkhan, you rush in towards the one in the center, go for it.
Sam: Unleash everything.
Joe: I don't think I can reach. I don't think I'm in range. Did you see that?
Matt: So what'd you roll?
Sam: Right as he runs, Scanlan says  Don't fuck this up!
Matt: As they both drop, you rush up to the one in the metal armor, who doesn't react to your arrival, stands there staring at you as you rush forward and swing. You hit the armor, but you hit the edge of the blade, cleaves off doing no impact.
Laura: Does he move?
Joe: That's attack one. Okay, that's a 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Taliesin: That looked bad from this angle. Yeah, I see it now! Holy cow.
Joe: He's not undead. He's not undead, is he?
Matt: He's not undead, nope.
Joe: Okay. Well, this is going to be weird, then. Oh, that's not bad. That's 28.
Matt: 28, all right. You hack and the axe slides into the front of the breast plate and as you pull back, you see a gout of blood. He takes it not reacting.
Joe: Just stands there?
Taliesin: Maybe we shouldn't kill all of--
Joe: I would like to bonus action.
Matt: Okay.
Joe: No, I wouldn't. I'm not--
Laura: Why isn't he moving? Does he have a helmet on?
Matt: Yeah. The one standing has a helmet and the two that fell, their helmets tumbled off as they impacted and fell back.
Ashley: What do they look like up there when their helmets came off?
Laura: Oh no! Were they our friends?
Joe: What friends?
Laura: Pull the helmet off. Arkhan, pull the helmet off!
Joe: I pull the helmet off.
Matt: You pull the helmet off and you watch immediately a bit of black, fuzzy facial hair from underneath. As you reveal, you see darkened skin and long black hair with a bit of colored makeup under the eyes and a metal band across the forehead, looking ahead, unmoving, unflinching, locked in place staring past you.
Laura: Is it Gilmore?
Matt: You glance up, and it's Gilmore standing in the middle of the room.
Laura: We killed the two--
Travis: No, we don't know anything yet.
Joe: I command zombie Delilah and zombie Vander to go to the heads and take the helmets off the two heads on the ground.
Matt: The helmets are partially off, so it's easy enough to slip the helms off. To the left, it was less of a halfling and more of a younger girl. Jammed into the armor and a little taller than the other, you can see brown hair with a shock of white in it currently laying back, unmoving and bleeding out. The other one looks to be specifically gnomish, short brown hair and eyes wide on the ground.
Sam: (high-pitched) Is that my girl? Is that my baby girl?
Ashley: I think it's an illusion. I'm hoping. I don't know. I feel this can't be real.
Sam: It's my baby girl--
Ashley: I'm going in. Can I stand over one of the bodies and do a perception check? A medicine check?
Matt: Make a medicine check.
Travis: No, there's no way.
Ashley: 23.
Matt: 23? They're not illusions, and they are both dead.
Joe: I cut the head off of the one in the middle.
Laura: No, don't do it! Arkhan, don't!
Ashley: No! I stand in front of him and say  no! Please don't!
Matt: They still have the bands. Each one of them has this strange brass band across the head.
Ashley: I take my mace, and I slowly try to take one of the bands off.
Matt: You take it off the head of one of the two dead?
Ashley: Yeah, but not touching it, scraping it off.
Matt: It slides off.
Ashley: Does anything happen?
Laura: Can we cast Revivify on them?
Travis: Don't do that.
Sam: Yeah, do that.
Laura: Who is it? Who are they for sure?
Matt: It is Kaylie and Cassandra.
Laura: It's Kaylie and Cassandra?
Sam: Revivify them. Take the bands off and Revivify them.
Taliesin: What is the band, before we do anything?
Sam: Take it off of Gilmore. He's still alive.
Taliesin: This may kill him.
Matt: No, she took it off one of the front.
Ashley: Does Gilmore look like he's still alive?
Matt: He's wounded, but he's still alive and staring forward.
Ashley: I'll do the same thing.
Matt: You pull the band off, and the eyes flicker for a second. (panting) "What happened? Where am I? How--"
Joe: I pull the axe back.
Matt: "What happened?"
Marisha: He doesn't know.
Sam: Save her. Right now.
Joe: I put my hand up over his mouth.
Taliesin: Take them.
Ashley: It's okay.
Matt: He looks down.
Ashley: I stand over Kaylie and I cast Revivify.
Matt: You see the eyes lull back, the stillness of the body as you finish touching the body a warm burst. (gasps) Breath comes back to her and she starts coughing. Sits up and leans over, gasping.
Sam: I go, grab her, and hold her.
Ashley: I stand over Cassandra and I cast Revivify.
Sam: These are big spells, aren't they?
Matt: As you reach out and touch her chest, the brief moment of stillness leads as her eyes slowly blink back, and begins breathing again.
Travis: This is some Seven shit right here.
Laura: That is so fucked up!
Sam: Shaun. Can you get them out of here?
Matt: "Yes, I--"
Laura: How did you get here? Is it really you?
Liam: Do you remember anything, Shaun?
Marisha: Anything that can help us?
Matt: "I was in my workshop, and there was a flash of light. A doorway opened, and it pulled me through and--"
Laura: Can I roll an insight check and see if it's him?
Matt: Roll an insight check.
Liam: I'm taking him by the cheeks. You're in a very bad place. You're in a very bad place and time. You need to get out of here. You need to take these women and go downstairs and hide.
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21? It's Shaun Gilmore.
Liam: You are in no shape to do anything right now. You need to take these two women and hide downstairs. Do you hear me?
Matt: "Where are we? What's going on?"
Liam: There's no time to explain.
Marisha: We're in the tower of Entropis. We're on the back of a titan. Try to get them as far away from here as possible. Vasselheim is an hour away.
Laura: Or you can fight with us.
Liam: No. His head is not where it needs to be.
Matt: "Wait. So if we're in-- We're near Vasselheim? What's Entropis?"
Marisha: No, we're in Thar Amphala. It's been teleported to the back of a titan, which is a giant mountain, which is what we're on. It's from the Shadowfell. You just have to get away!
Laura: We're 15 feet below Vecna. He's right above us.
Matt: "Then what are you going to do?"
Laura: We're going to fight him.
Marisha: And you're going to go away.
Liam: In 30 minutes, we could all be dead. But if we have any chance-- You three need to not be here. You need to go down now.
Matt: "I can get the three of us away. I can teleport us. It's the maximum of what I can do."
Marisha: J'mon Sa Ord is here, the Slayer's Take has probably been vastly compromised. Just get out of here. Get to the woods. Scanlan's right.
Matt: "I can probably take us back to Emon. Why even stay here?"
Marisha: Then go! Go!
Matt: "I'll do that. You're going to fight this Vecna?"
Taliesin: I hate to even ask, but is there anything you can do and still--?
Matt: "If we make it quick."
Travis: I'd almost rather him stay and fight.
Sam: No! He's got to get them away. They're at one hit point each!
Matt: "If you can make this quick, I can leave you with some intense adrenaline, my friend."
Travis: Me?
Matt: "Yes."
Travis: I'm a fan of adrenaline.
Matt: He looks around to the blood on the floor and the two barely living women at his side and says, "If the one you're going to fight is the one that did this to me and them... Leave a scar in my name, if you don't mind. When it's done, maybe carve a unicorn."
Travis: With pleasure.
Matt: You begin to hear heavy footsteps coming up the stairs behind you, heavy footfalls, and a number of other footsteps heading up the tower behind you. He goes and grabs the bodies close. Glancing around you, up the stairway you see emerging the death knight who joined you in the fight against Vecna.
Sam: I grab Kaylie by the face and I say to her Goodbye.
Matt: The one that met you at the top of the tower last time you fought Vecna emerges, looks across, and begins to go for the blade.
Joe: I go straight for him.
Matt: You go straight for him?
Joe: With the death knight? Straight for him.
Matt: Gilmore reaches out to you and casts Haste on you.
Travis: Haste?! (gasps)
Matt: "But it lasts a minute. Hurry!"
Marisha: I hate to say this but Arkhan do you have him?
Joe: Get upstairs! I'll hold him off!
Marisha: Let's go!
Liam: Bless. Shaun! It was an honor knowing you.
Matt: "It will be an honor knowing you all still." Grabbing on to both of the girls and with a flash of light, the three of them vanish. The death knight has turned to reach out and goes to cast something. Arkhan rushes up and slams the axe across his arm, knocking it aside. You can see now, behind them, other cultists and other things begin to head up the stairs. But they're currently being choked at this point where the death knight's being held at the stairway where Arkhan is stepping there.
Joe: Zombies are grabbing for his arms.
Matt: As Arkhan holds off, you guys head up towards the top of the tower. That's where we're going to pick up next week. (screaming)
Travis: What did you do?! You Kevin Spacey from Seven mother fucker! What did you do?
Matt: When you revealed to a god how close and dangerous you were last game, there were going to be repercussions.
Travis: (terrified laughter) Oh my god!
Matt: And he knows how to get to you. He knows your secrets.
Liam: This is a great game!
Joe: This is the most fun I've ever had! (laughter)
Matt: I love you guys. We'll pick this up next week for what will most likely be the final battle.
Sam: Ashley, can you pipe in?
Ashley: I don't know yet. I don't know the schedule.
Matt: If any of you are watching are from Blindspot, find a way to not have her work Thursday evening, please. That went a little longer than we anticipated, but we're at the end of the campaign.
Liam: Joe Manganiello! (cheering)
Joe: Jocks. We're here. Get used to it. (laughter)
Joe: Thank you so much for having me.
Matt: Of course! Thanks for coming.
Taliesin: I've been looking forward to this.
Travis: You're welcome! Any time.
Joe: Tiamat  she ain't so bad.
Matt: Well, she's pretty fucking bad. But when your goals are aligned, it can be useful. Well guys, thank you for joining us for this extended episode leading into the final fray of the campaign. I'm so excited for next week.
Taliesin: Everything's downhill from here. It'll be super easy.
Travis: You've got surprises and then you've got that shit.
Liam: That was fucked up.
Taliesin: I was feeling weird about it.
Joe: I was going to cut his head off. I thought he was some kind of sentinel. He was seeing through his eyes or whatever. I was about to chop his head off.
Travis: Thank god you rolled a one.
Joe: That was the luckiest one.
Matt: That was a lucky fucking one, dude!
Liam: Next campaign, we don't attack anybody! We talk to everybody! Every NPC, every hot dog vender, every lich! Talk!
Matt: That was a fucked-up tactic is what it was.
Liam: Fucked up! You managed in the space of a week to make the choke-out seem like child's play!
Taliesin: You are a monster.
Matt: Vecna is a monster, guys.
Taliesin: I'm so proud.
Joe: My undead brother I'm dragging around with me! This is fucking so fucked up! (laughter)
Matt: Well, thank you guys, hope you had a good time. We'll see you guys next week. Have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? Bye!
Marisha: Congrats to our t-shirt winners! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. Glad you could join us for what is essentially the final and epilogue episode of our five-year campaign. We're excited you guys could come join us.
Sam: Not the final episode of the show!
Matt: We will return. We're looking probably at the start of the new year with a new campaign, new characters.
Laura: But we'll have one-shots and stuff in between.
Matt: Yeah, we'll have fun stuff to break it up and give us some time to let off some steam in the meantime. But before we get into tonight's game, let's get through some quick announcements. First off, we wanted to give a shout out. If you guys haven't seen it yet, Shadow of War just came out, the sequel to Shadow of Mordor. A bunch of us have worked on it and if you haven't seen, we had the opportunity to do a cool thing with WB Games and the folks at Monolith. We did a Shadow of War one-shot that was uploaded as a two-parter.
Laura: It was so much fun!
Liam: You were so cute, all of you. It was the cutest orc adventure that ever happened.
Sam: You watched it?
Liam: Both episodes.
Laura: Thanks bro!
Matt: It was a lot of fun. We had Sam, Laura, Travis, and the illustrious Darin De Paul as our four orcs and/or olog-hai, charging their way through Mordor in hopes of victory spoils and all that.
Laura: It's real fun to be stupid.
Travis: I don't know what you're talking about.
Matt: So I recommend checking it out if you haven't yet. Merch update, Laura?
Liam: Wait! Something I can say now. I didn't have the green light, but I am in that game. I had to fib and say that I wasn't in that game, but I'm in that game! I am back as Gollum! And I run around and I do this, and I do this, and I do this, and I do this. (Gollum voice) Tasty fish!
Matt: If you guys haven't seen Liam's Gollum in the games, it's the most ridiculous--
Travis: Also to point out, you did the full mo-cap for it. Not just the VO.
Liam: Broke my back, scuttled around like I was a young buck, which I'm not. It was great!
Laura: I wish I still had the video of you that you sent me after you first started, yeah. When he first started playing Gollum, he sent me this video of him running around his living room, jumping up on his couch, then running over and jumping up your entertainment system or something.
Liam: I put my laptop on the coffee table, I hit click, and I started going--
Laura: It was so amazing.
Liam: Because I'm a nerd.
Matt: Awesome. Well, thank you for the follow-up on that, Liam. Laura?
Laura: Oh, well, technically, I have to shove this one to Liam and Taliesin, as well.
Taliesin: I feel like we've been doing the thing for a while now.
Liam: Yeah, like when parents have a baby, you don't see them for a while. They're with that baby every hour, every minute. (yelling)
Liam: Oh my gosh, it's the new art book! Oh my god, it's gorgeous! I took it out of the Ark of the Covenant, and here it is!
Laura: Okay, I should qualify this, because it's not in the store yet, you guys, so don't go to the store and freak out. It just came into the office.
Liam: Yeah, this is just our viewing copy. There will be more details--
Sam: What does it say on the title there?
Liam: It says The Chronicles of Exandria  The Tale of Vox Machina. One.
Sam: Volume One? Implying that there's going to be more?
Taliesin: Implying that we'd like to.
Liam: We'd like there to be. And you guys can tune in next week to Talks Machina, where we will have more info, more details.
Laura: We'll say when they're going to go in the store.
Matt: Can you give a teaser flip of any pages?
Liam: I have been told that I cannot give a teaser flip. But wait, guys. There's more! Taliesin, if you would?
Taliesin: Well, we did two editions because we wanted to do something a little ridiculous. And so--
Sam: What is this? A special edition?
Taliesin: This is a special edition. It's a little more fancy. It's got the ribbon and leather and gold foil. It's got an evil tome vibe, and it's got lots of little wonderful details.
Liam: We have held that book and looked through it. I cried 97 times in one minute. It is so beautiful.
Marisha: It really looks like crying for 60 seconds.
Laura: Tune in to Talks Machina on Tuesday. We'll give you more details about how you can purchase them. And you can always check out geekandsundry.com/artbook for more updates. They're coming soon. They should be in the warehouse very soon, so that's happy for the holidays.
Liam: Joe Madureira art!
Laura: I'm excited!
Taliesin: Yeah, there's lots to talk about in these books. I'm very excited!
Travis: And to cure any freakout, Ashley is going to join us. She's finishing up.
Matt: Finishing up shooting on Blindspot. So she'll pop in when she can.
Laura: This is her day job!
Taliesin: We keep trying to tell her that, don't we?
Liam: Wait. There's one last thing.
Sam: Two more editions of the art book!
Liam: I got one last thing, for funsies. It's a really late birthday present. It's kind of for funsies, but Travis, I have something for you that I've been wanting to give you for a while.
Sam: Is that an experience?
Travis: Can I open it?
Liam: Yeah, go for it.
Travis: What the fuck is this? (gasps)
Sam: Is it the Belt of Dwarvenkind?! (yelling)
Laura: Look at how big the face is!
Travis: Oh my god! Hug me through my wife! That's so great! I can't get hit in the dick with this on! This is amazing! It really covers the whole kit and kaboodle!
Liam: And your beard will double in length the moment you put it on. I had to repay you for the raven mask you gave me, once upon a time.
Laura: Oh yeah, our drunken ren fair purchases. I was like, "that's a cool mask! Where'd you get it?" And you said, "you got that for me."
Liam: Your husband just bought this for me! Thanks, Laura!
Matt: There you go. Also immune to poison. Good job. Perfect! So other updates. We are officially announcing the second edition of Vox Machina: Origins, the Critical Role comic. It's going to be available October 18th, so look for that on all your great comic book-- Comixology, the Dark Horse app, and all the other places that I can't think of right now. But yeah, so super exciting. This one starts bringing in some of the other members of Vox Machina who didn't show up in the first issue. So take a look at it, hope you guys enjoy. Let's see. Other quick announcements. Wednesday Club, Taliesin, you have coming up?
Taliesin: Yeah, it's October, so we're doing Halloween. We're doing Hellboy, which I don't really know much about. I couldn't think of anybody who knew a lot about Hellboy. Do you know a lot about Hellboy?
Liam: I know a lot about Hellboy.
Taliesin: Do you want to come on Wednesday Club?
Liam: Yes, please! Oh! I bought a Hellboy comic today! Another black compendium book to go with my other big black blades on my shelf.
Matt: Liam likes things that are big and black.
Laura: I'm glad your mind went there, too.
Taliesin: It's going to be Wednesday Club on Hellboy.
Matt: Then you have something on Friday, as well?
Taliesin: I do! I've decided it would be really funny to be here really late three days in a row for the rest of my life, and so I'm-- I don't want to quite say "taking over." Is "taking over" the word?
Marisha: That's fair.
Taliesin: I'm taking over Gather Your Party on Friday nights now, and we're giving it a bit of a revamp. It's going to be a bit of a different vibe. It's going to be a little shorter. It's going to be fun. Our very first episode is going to be called Gather Your Goth, and we're going to be giving some of our friends goth makeovers and having a goth dance contest.
Laura: Can I get made over? When are you doing it?
Taliesin: Tomorrow night.
Laura: Shit, I'm not going to be here! Fuck, I really want to be made over!
Taliesin: Well I'll tell you what. You let me know, and you can come over and have a goth makeover.
Matt: Next time you do it, you do whatever it's called, and then in parentheses Laura Your Goth, or Goth Your Laura.
Taliesin: Gather Your Laura. You would goth out very well. I think I would be excited by that.
Matt: All right. To finish this up, let's see. I forgot to mention it last week, but those of you guys who have been playing the Telltale Batman game, the new Pact episode came out recently with Harley Quinn and Bane, and I play Mr. Freeze! It's been a lot of fun, and I've been continuously recording on it. Hope you guys enjoy more fun to come with that delightful character.
Liam: You do have a cold heart.
Matt: It's true. Then you guys had a Sagas of Sundry announcement?
Marisha: Oh yeah! Sagas of Sundry announcement! Cast list went out! Who's in it? We are!
Liam: I didn't see you there at all!
Marisha: Look again! Abigail Persimmon.
Taliesin: The magic of the goth makeover strikes again! (cackles)
Marisha: I'm not coming tomorrow because I've already had mine.
Taliesin: No, I bought this shirt when we went shopping.
Marisha: That's right! You did! We went on a shopping trip, and we had so much fun.
Liam: It was fucking wild.
Marisha: Anyone who hasn't seen any of the first season--
Matt: Thanks for keeping tally.
Travis: He picked his cup up without drinking it again! Picks it up. (thunk)
Liam: Like an animatronic sailor!
Matt: Like a raccoon that can't find a river, I go through the motions of washing my food. All right. Couple of other things. It is still Sub-tober, because why not? That means if you haven't had the opportunity to subscribe to any of the Twitch streams that you're a fan of, you can do so half off until the 18th. So you can do that up until the 18th and then get the comic the same day, I guess. And since this is the final episode of the campaign, I wanted to give a shout out to all our fantastic crew. Wonderful people who have worked their ass off to stay here late every Thursday. We have Maxwell James, Dani Carr, Jason Corey, Ryan Green, Selina Ruth, Chris Wilmont, Zach Wilson, Sax Carr, Mark Donica, Anthony Videsco, Courtney Kraft, Ian Kagihara, Chris Lockey, Holly Pearson, Ryan Porter, Denise, J. Andrew Bernard, Ed Lopez, Rachel Romero, all of our fantastic mods who have done an incredible job maintaining the chaos that is Twitch, you guys are fantastic. We really appreciate all the hard work you guys put into it, and many, many more. The entire community, we can't even begin to express--
Laura: Did you say Fernando?
Matt: Yes, I did. Wait, Fernando. Someone didn't put Fernando on the list!
Sam: And many more whose names were omitted.
Matt: Correct, thank you guys so much for all your hard work!
Liam: Wait, let's come up with some more announcements so we never have to start.
Matt: Nope, I think we've stretched the audience's patience enough. Let's go ahead and dive in to tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Liam: Autoerotic a-pixie-ation.
Matt: You were real late on the draw, but this is the night to do it. I guess.
Liam: Right on time.
Matt: It was perfect. Precisely when you mean to. All right. Last we left off, Vox Machina, through their trials and tribulations, had eventually come to realize the machinations of Vecna, who ascended into godhood, transported his city from the Shadowfell of Thar Amphala to the top, right above a long-dead earth primordial titan, rising it and making its way toward Vasselheim, the Dawn City, the beginning of creation. You battled your way through its innards, up within the arcane dome that protected it, managed to defeat one half of the long-frustrating Briarwood coupling, fought your way to the top of the tower Entropis, did battle with Vecna, the Ascended. Through careful planning and sacrifices, you managed to apply the trammels, complete the sealing ritual, and send Vecna screaming across the Divine Gate, to be sealed to wherever his divine demi-plane resides on the other side. As you all fell down upon the ruined, floating platforms of the tower Entropis, you glanced over as your recent ally, Arkhan the Cruel, proceeded to sever his own hand, attach the Hand of Vecna, and catching you off guard, transport himself beyond your current reach. This beat of intensity releasing slowly, the adrenaline still wearing its way through your veins, you sit in silence, looking about, amazed that you all still stand after such a confrontation. It's at that moment you hear this distant explosion. Glancing off the side of the platform you're on, you can still see, while the large titan, one of four arms raised, attempting to come and destroy all of you with one large blow, frozen in place, there still remains the dregs of Vecna's army down below throughout the city of Vasselheim, where battles are still raging in the streets. You can still see wyvern-riders and eagle-riders in the sky, though it appears that the gloomstalkers that once paraded across the skies over the city have been destroyed or scattered at the loss of the ascended god that summoned them. You also still are aware of the body of your sister, residing on the platforms below. It's at this point that you notice that the green tendrils of energy that hold the Tower of Entropis together begin to flicker and subside. The platforms that were slowly drifting, listing, suddenly begin to shift.
Laura: No! I take off on my broom, and I go down to try to get her.
Matt: Okay. You guys dart over the side. What are the rest of you guys doing?
Travis: I had the immovable rod pulled out, and I click it where I am.
Matt: All right. You hold in place. You feel the platform give beneath you. Your toes are now dangling in the middle of the air as you watch the cracked-open right side of Entropis' peak begin to topple and fall beneath you. What are you guys doing?
Marisha: I'm still a planetar. Do you still have Bigby's Hand up?
Sam: For maybe 30 seconds more.
Taliesin: Where's the carpet?
Travis: It's in my bag.
Marisha: I do a potato sack hold on Scanlan. Make sure he's all right.
Matt: You grab him. Pike still has some time. She still has her wings.
Travis: I can throw it to you.
Taliesin: That would be nice. Yes, please.
Travis: Can I pull the carpet out of the bag of holding? Do you want to free fall and go after it?
Matt: By the way, the platform is now giving underneath you.
Sam: Why don't you fly it over?
Travis: I don't think I can be on it with him. Right? I'm still enlarged.
Marisha: Here, can one of us fly over and get it?
Laura: Technically, he was on the broom with me, so I could've dropped him off with one of you before I flew down to Velora.
Matt: As you're having this conversation about the carpet, you're dragged down over the side as the broom rockets off, Vex's mind currently focused more on other things. So the last thing you hear from Percival is, "Could you throw--" as he darts off to the side. The platform is beginning to give as the flickering green energy begins to fade. You guys both dart beneath where you can see upon the rubble, where the top staircase had broken apart from the original sundering of the top of the tower. There you see, still lying there, lifeless, the body of Velora. You rush in there just as the platform's collapsing. I need you both to make acrobatics checks on this to see how quickly you can maneuver in and out.
Laura: Okay, it's 30.
Liam: 31.
Matt: Both of you guys rush inward. As some of the various chunks are beginning to fall and separate from underneath the platforms, you begin to dart through, dodge, and you grab and lift her body. Both of you cradling her, and at a moment's notice, deciding which one of you's going to take her.
Liam: I've got her.
Matt: All right. Vax, you go ahead and dart off. You careen back out of the way as the central, large platform crashes down with a heavy impact. You can see it crumble, then break, and three separate pieces beginning to tumble. The tower then gives in from underneath and begins to collapse downward, almost like a controlled demolition. As it begins to fall and topple down below, you all gather your thoughts and consider other allies that were recently--
Travis: Falling?
Matt: A short time ago, yes.
Laura: Zahra and Kash?
Marisha: With Scanlan in hand, start diving down to go see if I can find them or have any sight of them at all.
Matt: What's the flying speed of your planetar?
Marisha: 150 feet.
Matt: Okay. As you, holding Scanlan under your arm, coast down at a speed to the point where now you're actually racing the crumbling of the tower. You're watching the actual cracks as they emerge, as the energy's dissipating, beginning to subside, as your speed overtakes the rate in which it's collapsing.
Marisha: Like Superman and Lois Lane.
Matt: (laughter). The G's are intense, Scanlan. Your eyes are watering, blown back on your face. The Ioun symbol on your forehead is flaring like a spotlight ahead of you. As you rocket down, you glance, you can see there across the rocks at the bottom, two wyverns that are scattered across the rubble, and you see, lying there, the bodies of Kashaw and Zahra.
Sam: They're dead. Turn around. Let's go back. They're dead.
Marisha: Shut up, Scanlan! Are they dead?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: How high am I hanging off of this thing?
Matt: Make--
Travis: A perception check? I am a million-- eight.
Matt: You're high up there. That's a long way up.
Marisha: 18.
Laura: You can use the carpet because Percy's on the broom with me.
Matt: Their bodies are brutalized from the impact. They hit.
Marisha: They're splatted.
Matt: Well, they're not splatted.
Laura: They're not you on the cliff.
Marisha: Sure. They didn't goldfish it.
Travis: But a good Revivify might help.
Sam: They're unconscious?
Matt: You're just now approaching. As you get there, you can hear the rumbling of the tower getting louder. You've barely beaten it. What are you doing?
Marisha: I've got to move them, right? Is that what you're saying? Scanlan? You're fine, right? Handle yourself?
Matt: Scanlan, she sets you on the ground as you look over and see the tower (crashing).
Marisha: Do you want to hold onto my back?
Sam: I have no spells left, so yes. (laughter)
Sam: I will climb on.
Taliesin: I imagine Scanlan dropping that last potion as it's coming down.
Matt: Okay. As you dive on, you grab both of their limp bodies and pull them under your arms and dart. I need you to make a dexterity saving throw, please.
Laura: Oh my god, if we thought we made it out of this--
Marisha: Okay, 18. No, wait! Yeah, 18.
Matt: 18. You manage to scoot by as one of the large chunks of the base falls over to one side, and as you dart out, wings before you, Scanlan clutched on your back, both their bodies beneath, you can feel the gust of wind from behind as the collapsing wall is pushing all the air in your direction. As you focus down, your wings out, you manage to careen underneath as the shadow that was beginning to fall over you pulls behind, and behind you hear the (boom), the dust pick up, and you guys all look down and watch as the tower finally falls to its final piece of rubble there on the ground. At which point you glance down, and you can see both of them, their eyes roll open, lolling in their face, both Zahra and Kashaw, seemingly conscious. If you guys want to step in? (cheering)
Marisha: I'm going to immediately burn two of my healing touches, and you get 6d8 plus three hit points back.
Matt: Kashaw and Zahra, you've been lying there on the ground for a moment going, "Ow," and as your vision focuses, you watch as the tower begins to collapse downward in your direction. The shadow seems to close over you.
Will: Well, that's not good.
Marisha: 29 hit points to both of you immediately.
Matt: And with a flash, something white-feathered and blue shoots past you, grabs you, and you are thrust into the air, carried by the angelic form of Keyleth.
Mary: Kiki? How are you, darling?
Marisha: Did you recognize me because of the antlers? That's why I keep them. They're very identifying.
Mary: I think I dreamed of you.
Marisha: No, that was real and incredible, and you all showed up.
Sam: Why did you come?
Will: We had to come. She made us. (laughter)
Mary: I had a vision.
Will: It's good to see you. Thank you for that.
Sam: You had a vision?
Mary: I did. I had a vision of white wings, and blue--
Will: Are you okay?
Mary: I think we're all right.
Will: Both of you?
Mary: Yeah.
Will: Don't piss off a pregnant tiefling.
Marisha: Yeah-- wait, what?
Will: Thank gods for that.
Sam: Haven't you heard of pulling out? (laughter)
Sam: I do it all the time!
Will: I tried. Didn't work.
Mary: I wouldn't let him.
Will: The tail held me in place.
Mary: You always said you liked that.
Will: Can you put us down somewhere, maybe?
Mary: That would be lovely, thank you.
Marisha: I drop Kash, but very lightly set down Zahra.
Matt: You tumble.
Marisha: Congratulations!
Mary: Did we win?
Matt: No, you're healed up; you're fine. The Death Ward brought you guys to one hit point, and then she healed you before she dropped you, so you're fine.
Will: No, I deserved that. Thank you. So did we win? What happened?
Sam: We're sitting on the titan now?
Matt: You're down in the street level of Thar Amphala.
Sam: But still on the Titan?
Matt: Still on the top of the Titan.
Sam: Is he falling?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Two.
Matt: You have no idea.
Sam: Pregnant?! What? I thought you were gay!
Will: We've talked about this. It's all right.
Travis: Can I take out the carpet and start making my enlarged form way down to them? By myself?
Laura: Well, Pike's with you.
Travis: Oh. Is she?
Laura: Yeah, Pike's still with you up there.
Travis: She's got wings.
Matt: With a strength of 19, and your enlarged size--
Travis: Can I dispel the enlarged?
Matt: No.
Travis: Oh, it's in for ten minutes. I'm just me. (laughter)
Matt: You get the sense, at this size, that carpet cannot carry you.
Travis: I'm just hanging out. I grab the earring and I say: Will someone please do me a favor? Will you look for Arkhan's hand? Find me that hand.
Sam: Is it falling?
Matt: It was on one of the platforms.
Marisha: Wait, you want to find his hand on the giant tower full of rubble?
Will: Whose hand?
Travis: Arkhan's.
Liam: Vex or I can find it.
Laura: In a moment.
Matt: At this point, you have both come down now to the base of the tower. At that speed, it took you a while to catch up to the rest of everybody else.
Marisha: I look up and say  Grog, do you need a hand? Are you all right? Damn it, the pun wasn't intended, Scanlan! (laughter)
Travis: I literally just said that.
Marisha: Do you need assistance getting down from hanging from a bar? In the middle of the air, to be very literal.
Travis: Yeah, it would be nice.
Marisha: I fly up.
Matt: So your angelic wing maneuver.
Mary: I can cast Fly on him.
Sam: Yeah, do that! Zahra has Fly, she can cast Fly on him!
Mary: I cast Fly on Grog.
Matt: Okay. You'll have to get up a little closer to do it, because you're out of range.
Mary: Can I use my Cloak of the Bat to fly up and then cast?
Matt: Yeah.
Mary: I fly up and I cast. Hello, darling!
Matt: You watch as Zahra, suddenly her cloak extends into two large, leathery bat wings and she flies her way up pretty close to where you are. For a second there, you glance down. Roll a perception check.
Travis: Ten.
Matt: You see a gloomstalker coming right at you.
Travis: (screams)
Matt: As you hold the sword out in front, you notice in a second, it's Zahra.
Travis: Oh. Not a gloomstalker.
Matt: But the sword, at this point, as you hold it out in front of you and push back, it goes, "One part is done. Well played. But he still survives. We'll take him. And we'll take that dragon. The hand must be destroyed. It's still out there. Together--"
Travis: Okay, yeah, I sheathe him. (laughter)
Travis: I need some Visine bad.
Mary: Grog! Hello, darling.
Travis: Hey, Zahra.
Mary: Did you ever use that moonhammer I gave you?
Travis: All the time. Covered in blood.
Mary: Right. In the moonlight, right?
Travis: Yep. Need to get it cleaned.
Mary: Good. Well, I look forward to hearing your tales. Do you need some help, my darling?
Travis: I do, unless you just want to hang out with me up here for a bit.
Mary: Well, I could. How is your arm? You know what, no, let's just do it. I cast Fly. Let go.
Matt: And you can fly. You're gliding in the air. (laughter)
Matt: He starts slowly--
Taliesin: Don't leave the rod!
Laura: Don't leave the rod!
Marisha: Don't leave the rod!
Travis: How do I do this?
Mary: It's all right. Just focus. Focus. You'll be fine, Grog. Just focus. Yes, think of yourself as a cow. As a flying cow. You remember?
Travis: Moo.
Laura: Grab the rod.
Travis: Oh, right. (click) Put it back in the bag of holding. This is great! Oh my god, I would do this every day.
Mary: Well, you could do it for at least an hour, so that's good.
Travis: Can I drunkenly fly down to everybody else?
Matt: And you do, it's a slow spiral, and you begin to gimbal backward, and she has to right you a couple times.
Travis: Can I fly right as I get closer, just for dramatic effect?
Mary: Focus on me. No squirrel. There's no squirrels. Focus your mind. No. It's all right, just come down. (singing)
Travis: I come down!
Mary: All right, you could do that, too. Look out below!
Travis: Three-point landing. Super hard.
Matt: Make an acrobatics check.
Travis: Super hard.
Will: Superhero landing.
Travis: (high voice) Not great.
Taliesin: Yay!
Laura: Not bad.
Travis: Oh, not bad, yeah. Yeah. 14.
Matt: 14. Okay. You were rage-hanging? You take 24 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to 12.
Laura: And Grog is dead.
Matt: And three-point landing. You watch as a crater is left beneath where his impact is. The smoke slowly subsides, and Grog's there, fist in the ground, Thor: Ragnarok style.
Laura: And we're all on the ground now?
Matt: You are all now on the ground floor of Thar Amphala. As you glance around--
Liam: I'm flexing the wings out and around, and I'm making a feather bed with the ends of the wings on the ground and laying Velora down on it.
Laura: Kash, tell me you have Revivify. Tell me you can bring her back.
Will: I believe I do.
Liam: I start combing her hair with my fingers, out of her eyes.
Will: Let me check. I do. Who am I casting it on?
Laura: Our sister.
Will: Oh. Oh, that doesn't look good. Yeah, okay. Let's see what we can do. I'm sorry, I'm still a little sore.
Laura: No. It's terrible. Please help her.
Will: It was a terrible fall. Give me one second.
Mary: I'm so sorry.
Will: Oh. Her? This one? Yeah, all right. Let's do that. I'm going to cast Revivify.
Matt: Okay. Unfortunately, she's been dead longer than a minute, so the spell does not take effect. You don't know how long it's been, or if perhaps your final moments of fucking with her was just enough to push it over the edge-- (laughter)
Will: It keeps happening! Sorry.
Sam: 61 seconds.
Will: I can speak to dead, if you'd like to talk with her.
Laura: No! I don't want to fucking talk to her, I want to have her back! (laughter)
Will: It's time for one message. Does she owe you money? I can have her find out where it is.
Liam: Do you have anything a little more potent right now?
Marisha: I can raise dead.
Will: Well, there we go. See?
Laura: Is she going to come back as a zombie?
Marisha: No.
Laura: She'll be a normal--
Taliesin: Just raised.
Marisha: I might need some help. Where's Pike?
Will: I can raise the dead, too, if you need help.
Matt: Pike has been slowly flying down.
Marisha: She doesn't come back as a zombie, right? It's raising dead.
Matt: Is it the actual Raise Dead spell?
Will: Mine is.
Marisha: It says three times a day.
Matt: Raise Dead. You can bring someone back to life, yeah. It takes an hour to cast.
Marisha: Yep.
Travis: Do they murder someone when you do that, like a horror movie?
Marisha: If I did it with Kash, would that--
Will: I'm with Zahra now, so let's try to keep that in mind.
Taliesin: Wow, two for two tonight.
Marisha: I don't know how to respond to that.
Liam: Your sense of humor is your best quality.
Will: Isn't it?
Liam: Best.
Will: We'll get her. She'll be fine!
Matt: As you guys take a moment and realize the time, the involvement that would be here to do the spell, you glance about in the streets of Thar Amphala, and what straggling undead and/or cultists seem to have been either trying to scramble back up to the city or hadn't made their way down through or were here as sentinels are frantically trying to escape and being cut down and grabbed by the various eagle riders and the rest of the army that's currently now beginning to swarm in, thanks to the complete falling of the barrier with the sealing of Vecna. You do feel at this moment that you do have some time in Thar Amphala without any immediate danger.
Will: But if it gets to that, I can stay and raise her, and you guys can go and take care of the city.
Laura: Thank you.
Marisha: I don't even know if I have a full hour left on my form. That's the only problem. That's why I would need help, but--
Will: She needs to rest, anyway.
Mary: I can stay. I'll stay with him.
Laura: Thank you.
Mary: We'll focus on her.
Sam: We'll all stay, until we don't have to.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: I help Kash as much as I can.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I sit down and hold her hand.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Start cleaning her cheeks as well as we can.
Marisha: And I don't take my eyes off of Vax the whole time.
Sam: Oh, yeah. Shit.
Will: I'm holding my medal. Starting the spell.
Matt: As you guys form a perimeter here at the base of Entropis, the sky now open, the clouds dispelled and scattered, and probably for the first time in weeks, especially from your guys' perspective, Vasselheim sees a sky of blue. The sunlight rains down from above, and the warmth that comes through is very comforting as you begin to clear the space and scrawl out the sigils and glyphs necessary for this Raise Dead ritual. As you're going through the process and you quietly begin to focus, you can see some of the eagle riders and straggling wyvern riders take notice and begin to come close, and then stop and keep a distance, and recognizing the significance of this moment, respectfully stay away.
Will: As he's casting the glyphs, he goes over, he's about to write the last one, and he walks over to Vex, and he takes one tear, and he goes back over and uses it to do the last glyph.
Matt: As he draws the last glyph with the tear, that one seems to have an additional flair, a connection, a sparkle of bloodline connectivity between you and the deceased. As you complete the spell, I need you to go ahead and bring to this ritual what you'd like.
Sam: Oh god.
Laura: Jesus, really? Oh, god. I take one of my arrows that has the owlbear feather on it, and I put it down next to her because I know she loved owlbears.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll a d20 for me. Okay. Anybody else?
Liam: I pull Simon from around my waist, and I start to fasten it around her. This is yours. You're going to have to take care of him now. His name is Simon. Most people don't think he's alive, but they're wrong. He's very much alive. Take care of him for me. I didn't get nearly enough time with you. I'm sorry. I love you very much. I kiss her on the forehead.
Matt: Roll another d20.
Liam: I rolled an 18, but I'm going to use Luck. Good. 18 is good.
Matt: Okay.
Mary: I take the moonstone from my staff, and I clasp it in my hands, and I say: Sirius, you asked me to be here and to judge them. They are worthy. Give me this boon. Help me save this girl, for true friendship, which I never had until now. Help me save her. Help us all save her. And I place the moonstone down next to her head.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll a d20 for me.
Mary: I'll use Luck.
Matt: If you want to.
Mary: 12.
Matt: Okay. As you complete the ritual, all the sigils in place lighting up, it's unique because you're used to the ritual completed by an acolyte of Sarenrae, in which everything has a glow of warmth to it. This ritual was completed by an acolyte of an entity named Vesh, and as each sigil flares, you watch as they darken into the deepest shadow. It's a yin-yang dichotomy as the spell begins to take effect, until eventually the whole circle becomes pitch black, like the deepest of lightless midnight. At that moment, you watch as Velora's form itself is also cast into shadow and disappears from view. And for a moment, you fear she is gone, before the shadow begins to peel away like a cocoon, and as it tears and rolls back, the subtle sound of sand shifting and paper crackling, you watch as her chest begins to move once more, breathing, her eyes still closed, but life breathes into her lungs once more. With a natural 19.
Laura: I hug her. Oh, and I pop Trinket out of his necklace, and I cast Cure Wounds on him so he can lick her face.
Matt: Okay. As Trinket comes out, Trinket is burned and battered, armor dinged up and screwed up, on his face it's askew to one side--
Travis: He got meteored. (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, he did.
Travis: I didn't sign up for this shit.
Laura: I've still got a 3rd-level Cure Wounds on him.
Matt: All right.
Mary: I cast Beast Speak. You all right, Trinket?
Matt: "I don't care." And Trinket comes forward to Velora and begins licking her face, and she who is breathing but unconscious, the eye begins to slowly open. "What?" And her eyes open up a little bit, and you can see her skin darkened from the blast and the rubble and the dust that's now begun to settle around the base of Entropis, and she looks up and first sees the lapping tongue of Trinket against her cheek, and giggles and pushes him away a little bit. Then she sees the feather and looks at it and now looks up to see the person that's holding her and looks and meets both of your gazes--
Laura: Hi, little monkey.
Matt: "Hi."
Liam: You're an awfully long way from home.
Matt: "What happened?"
Laura: You went on an adventure, that's all.
Matt: She gets quiet for a second, trying to remember, trying to recall. "I'm very tired."
Laura: Of course.
Matt: And she curls up and pulls tighter around Vex's neck.
Will: Kash steps in. You don't feel evil, do you? (laughter)
Matt: She pulls back and looks over at you. "Who's this human?"
Laura: Oh, he saved your life just now, dear.
Liam: He's a friend. Come here.
Will: All right.
Laura: No, but seriously, could she be evil? Seriously.
Will: No, there's-- no. You feel okay?
Matt: She arranges the situation and looks back at you and goes, (giggles).
Will: She's fine. I'd watch her.
Laura: Yeah. She's fine. (laughter)
Matt: She pulls back into you and whispers in your ear and says, "He's pretty stupid, isn't he?"
Laura: He's really stupid.
Matt: She giggles and then sighs into you.
Laura: Okay, yeah. Just rest. I'm going to sit her on top of Trinket so she can take a little nappy-nap.
Matt: Okay. And she passes right out. She is spent. She is exhausted.
Will: The city is still burning.
Mary: Yes, it is. We have work to do.
Will: We've got a lot of people down there we know.
Mary: I know. The Slayer's Take is in desperate need. We should check on the sphinx.
Travis: The sphinx, right.
Laura: We can't thank you enough. Again.
Will: You guys always do throw the best parties, that's for sure.
Mary: Yes, you do.
Laura: I'm so glad you're all right.
Will: Yeah, I'm glad we could help. That's why we're going to name our child Vax. I'm totally kidding; that's never going to happen. (laughter)
Mary: Take the moonstone. Keep it with you. If you need me-- well, I won't come, because I'll be away, but--
Laura: Yeah, you'll be a little busy with the child and all.
Mary: A little busy, yes. But come and visit if you get a chance. Who knows? Twins runs in my family, so you never know.
Laura: Really?
Mary: Yes. Lillith told me. I need to see Lillith again.
Liam: Oh, the joke's on you.
Laura: I give her a big hug.
Mary: I love you, darling.
Laura: I love you so much. Congratulations.
Mary: Thank you, dearest. Scanlan.
Sam: Yes?
Mary: You little bastard.
Sam: Yes? That is my full name, yes. (laughter)
Mary: I plant a giant, fiery kiss on him, and my tail wraps around his head.
Sam: I try to get away, but--
Mary: The tail. (laughter)
Will: I told you.
Sam: You're right! Kinky. Ooh! What? I mean, thank you?
Mary: I miss doing your hair.
Sam: Well, I miss doing, well--
Mary: We'll see each other, again, I hope. Grog.
Travis: Yeah?
Mary: Use that moonhammer.
Travis: I will-- I mean, again.
Laura: At night. In the night.
Mary: Use it in the moon--
Travis: Yeah. Under the moon.
Laura: Yeah, obviously.
Travis: It's called a moonhammer. Yeah.
Mary: Use it in the moonlight. I think you'll be surprised.
Travis: In the nude.
Taliesin: Without pants.
Mary: Without pants.
Travis: Right. Yeah. Moon for moon, as above, so below--
Mary: Yes.
Travis: And that will unleash--
Mary: Take your pants off, here we go.
Liam: Double damage on cows. Yeah.
Travis: I'm going to fuck some cows up.
Mary: Yeah, you do.
Will: Oh, Grog. I love standing next to you in battle and hate standing next to you at the urinal. (laughter)
Will: That's just the way it is, my friend. Been a pleasure.
Mary: Percy.
Taliesin: Yes?
Mary: Take care of our girl.
Taliesin: I'll try.
Mary: Take care of her.
Taliesin: My regards to your family.
Mary: Thank you, love. We'll be in Whitestone again soon. I'll see you soon, dearest.
Sam: Don't see us too soon. I mean, whenever you're near us, you both almost die. So maybe just--
Laura: Give it some time.
Will: But we--
Will: Almost.
Mary: Almost.
Mary: That's the key word is almost, you see. Yes. You saved our lives. We can never repay you.
Travis: I believe you saved ours first by showing up.
Marisha: We saved each other. That's kind of what Vox Machina's all about.
Liam: This is the second time around you.
Mary: That's what we do for each other. I love you, Vax.
Liam: I love you, too, Mary.
Mary: Oh, baby, don't do that.
Matt: At this point, you begin to hear distant horns echoing throughout the city streets. Distant, emanating throughout. As you glance over, you haven't heard these horns before. But they sound less like horns of warning and more like horns of victory. Glancing down in the streets, there are still flames and columns of smoke and you can still see scuffles beneath. The siege weaponry attacks against the titan have subsided and it has not moved at all. It is locked in place, a large statuesque-like mountain of an ancient entity now lording over the edge of the Braving Grounds, almost creeping upon the outskirts of the Quad Roads towards the center of the city, leaving a path of destruction in its wake. Most of the Braving Grounds is in tatters but--
Laura: I look at Percy. This would be a wonderful place for a summer home. (chuckles)
Will: We've got to go.
Mary: We've got to go.
Sam: What? No.
Mary: We have to leave.
Will: They need us back.
Mary: Yeah.
Liam: Don't be strangers, though.
Mary: We won't.
Liam: Look in.
Laura: Thank you, guys.
Mary: We will.
Liam: Look in if you can.
Mary: We love you all so much.
Travis: Thank you.
Taliesin: Thank you, as well.
Will: So this is what it's like to have a family, huh?
Mary: Yeah.
Will: I can get used to that.
Marisha: Sounds like you're going to have an actual family soon.
Sam: Well I shit more than your kid will, but other than that, it's like this but with less shit.
Will: Then we'll be happy.
Mary: Always.
Will: Call us if you need us. Anytime.
Laura: Same.
Mary: We'll be here.
Laura: All right.
Mary: Thank you.
Will: Luck in battle.
Sam: Thank you.
Laura: Bye loves.
Liam: See you later, smart ass.
Mary: Thank you.
Will: Bastard. Treat her well or I'm going to come back.
Laura: Hey, you've got your hands full, all right?
Will: That's true, too.
Matt: And as she completes a secondary Fly spell, these two coast off over the edge of Thar Amphala, down into the center of Vasselheim on their own. At which point, you notice three battle-disheveled wyvern riders that were waiting at the side begin to approach. One of them you recognize as a captain signified by these ivory horns that curl out of the back of the helmet and grow longer than the regular wyvern riders' armor you've encountered. Having stepped off the armored drake that currently waits, shaking its head, large leathery wings dug into the nearby rubble, the warrior approaches, pulling the helmet off, revealing a tumble of braided amber hair with shaved sides and a rather stern-looking woman that you don't recognise. "Vox Machina! I am Captain Obelin. I would ask, does this shift in tide signify anything? Does the lich still loom about?"
Laura: He fucking dead.
Taliesin: Does not. The battle is won.
Laura: He's been sealed away.
Matt: "It is done?"
Travis: It is.
Taliesin: "Fucking dead." (laughter)
Travis: Lady Vex'ahlia.
Taliesin: Lady, yes.
Matt: "The gods grant their grace upon Vasselheim still. We thank you. Well, there's little time to celebrate. There's still much to be done, but please bring this information to the Platinum Sanctuary, to somewhere of significance in the city. This information needs to go out. this will greatly bolster the ranks, morale of those--"
Marisha: Start spreading the word yourself. You can help us out, right?
Matt: "Oh, we shall." She looks over her shoulder at the other soldiers.
Taliesin: I've got the last flare from Whitestone from all those years ago.
Laura: I have a purple flare too. We should all set them off.
Marisha: I was going to say  I think I still have a Skywrite.
Sam: Let's do it.
Marisha: Yep.
Laura: I send up my purple flare, too.
Sam: I pull out my gun. (laughter)
Travis: Yes!
Marisha: Oh my god!
Travis: I forgot you have one.
Liam: What a callback.
Taliesin: I've been waiting for it.
Travis: Please misfire. Please blow your hand off.
Sam: Let's do this. (yells) (laughter)
Matt: Okay. Roll a d20.
Travis: Please.
Taliesin: No!
Sam: Natural 20.
Taliesin: No!
Sam: (machine gun noises)
Liam: Say hello to my even littler friend!
Travis: Oh my god.
Matt: So as you guys send up your colored Whitestone crest flares into the sky, what do you Skywrite?
Marisha: Vecna defeated.
Laura: That's a lot of writing.
Taliesin: That's a lot of words.
Matt: The wisps of cloud begin to spell across--
Sam: V def.
Marisha: (laughs) I can write it out.
Taliesin: You can.
Matt: Yeah. As it coasts across, you hear this loud echoing (gunshot) as the N in the middle of Vecna seems to dissipate with a little puff as a perfectly aimed bullet from one pistol that does not backfire, because that would have been fucking funny.
Taliesin: It's all I wanted tonight.
Travis: So good.
Matt: Roll a performance check.
Sam: Performance? Come on. 28.
Matt: 28. For a man who has only shot a pistol once, he Revolver Ocelots that shit.
Laura: He's been practicing that shit in his bedroom.
Marisha: Yeah. In the mirror.
Travis: Behind the back. Oh shit. (laughter)
Sam: I've been watching you.
Travis: Percy's like, "I don't do that shit." (laughter)
Taliesin: Yeah, no.
Matt: These flares bursting and slowly descending, coming down and bringing this-- it was a purple flare and what was the color of yours?
Taliesin: Gold, if I recall.
Matt: So gold and purple begin to burn down below, giving this strange atmospheric light to the outside of the large, still titan form as the words across the sky, you begin to hear this low gathering of cheers. Thousands upon thousands upon thousands of voices where you once heard screaming and yelling now join in unison. A rallying cry of victory that crawls across the entirety of Vasselheim around you on all sides. What do you guys want to do?
Travis: I need that hand.
Sam: Do we have Locate Object or something?
Liam: I do.
Laura: I mean, yeah.
Sam: Is it an object? I guess it's inanimate now.
Matt: It is considered an object now.
Liam: I do.
Laura: That's good.
Liam: I got it. I've seen it. I have the spell slot.
Matt: All right. So you cast Locate Object and you have a very strong vision of the direction and it's maybe a hundred feet to your left, and it is under quite a bit of rubble.
Liam: Big man, come on. I'm going to need you to dig; it's over here.
Travis: Not a problem.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Rage dig.
Matt: Giving him direction. Rage-digging through, tossing veritable small boulders with one-handed scoops. You guys are having to dodge out of the way as they go flying by and skidding to a halt maybe 50, 60 feet behind him. Go ahead and make an investigation check with advantage, because of his aid.
Travis: That's about as good as it gets, because that's even worse. 16.
Matt: 16. Okay.
Travis: With a minus two.
Matt: It takes you a little while, but thanks to Locate Object, you cruise through and you eventually find-- It's been smashed, but it's still intact and there you see the completely cut off, red-scaled, clawed hand of Arkhan the Cruel.
Travis: He fucked us.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: He helped us. And then he fucked us. Yeah.
Marisha: I guess the help was worth the fucking, but only a little bit.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: The voice creeps into your head. "Take it. Find him. He has to die."
Travis: Feel like I should take this and try and find him. He's got to fucking die.
Laura: Yeah, he probably does.
Travis: He was so cool and strong and only his physique rivals my own, but I feel like he's got to die.
Liam: Please. He couldn't touch you, are you kidding?
Marisha: You know, you're not having--
Travis: Couldn't.
Laura: You seem to like him a lot. Are you sure you want to kill him and not just try to get--
Marisha: Grog.
Travis: What? Hold on.
Marisha: We all think you're strong. You don't need to have an inferiority complex.
Travis: A what?
Laura: Yeah, I don't think he's going to understand.
Liam: I don't think he has those.
Travis: So he's a paladin of--
Sam: Tiamat.
Travis: Right. Is that a good or a bad?
Sam: Bad, I'm guessing?
Matt: Make a religion check with advantage because you still have-- well, the blessing would have worn off.
Liam: That thing could rot. Do you know what preserves a hand?
Laura: The bag of colding.
Sam: More than 20.
Matt: Yeah, Tiamat's very bad. Known as the Scaled Tyrant, she resides in the Nine Hells and is the patron deity of all chromatic dragons.
Sam: Oh, yeah. She's the dragon god. She?
Matt: She. The opposite of Bahamut.
Travis: Of good dragons, or bad?
Sam: Bad dragons.
Travis: Okay. I feel like he had a good insight, but the hand does bad things, right?
Laura: The hand does really bad things. You know what you should do is bring that to Bahamut.
Liam: Yeah, after you piss on it.
Marisha: Why are you so connected to the pissing thing?
Laura: Don't piss on it, Grog.
Travis: But he said preserve it.
Laura: But then maybe if they try to use the hand to find it, it might lead them to you instead because you've already pissed on it.
Travis: Lead them to my junk?
Laura: Potentially.
Travis: People have come looking for it for less.
Laura: You don't want people chopping off your junk thinking your junk is Vecna's hand, do you?
Travis: It doesn't even look like a hand. Just like one really big middle finger. (laughter)
Liam: It's like a mole, right?
Travis: Yeah. All right, I have it. I'm not going to preserve it.
Laura: Put it in the bag of colding.
Liam: Such a mistake.
Sam: That's on the to-do list. We'll go find him.
Laura: All right.
Travis: And Bahamut is the platinum--
Laura: Tiamat's the bad guy.
Travis: No, Bahamut is the good dragon of the platinum variety?
All: Yes.
Travis: Would you say they are at odds?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: Yes.
Liam: Safe bet.
Travis: Like Godzilla and King Kong?
Liam: I don't know those references, but yeah, they are at odds.
Marisha: What's-her-name worshipped Bahamut.
Laura: Kima.
Marisha: Was it Kima? Kima! Kima worships Bahamut.
Travis: She was badass.
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Yes.
Travis: I'll just hold on to the hand right now.
Laura: What's going on there, Grog?
Travis: Nothing. We just had a big fight.
Taliesin: You're making that monologue face. Like that face someone makes when they're listening to some very complex internal monologue. You don't make that face very often. You're making it right now. Just start speaking whatever's in your head right now. Free-form.
Travis: I have to go after the hand, I must kill Vecna, I have to do these things.
Taliesin: Okay, this is starting to paint a picture. You feel better now?
Travis: Nuh-huh.
Taliesin: Okay.
Marisha: Is that going on all the time in your head?
Travis: No.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: Are you lying right now?
Sam: He nodded when he said no.
Liam: DM, just for funsies, do I sense Vecna in any way, shape, or form?
Matt: No.
Liam: Okay. Definitely want to piss on that hand, Grog.
Laura: Don't piss on the hand. Number one  it's already in the bag of colding and I don't want everything else pissed on.
Liam: Grog and I don't share much!
Taliesin: Except pissing? (laughter)
Taliesin: It was an honest question.
Travis: That's true.
Laura: What should we do, you guys?
Taliesin: I'm so tired.
Marisha: I grab onto Vax and don't let go.
Sam: We have more pressing concerns.
Taliesin: That does remind me. Scanlan?
Sam: What?
Taliesin: You're going to have to give it back now.
Sam: Give what back?
Taliesin: You know exactly what.
Sam: The gun?
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: That was part of a trade.
Sam: This is my gun.
Taliesin: I don't think it's your gun.
Sam: I found it.
Taliesin: You didn't.
Travis: No, there was a trade of items. I got a cloak of smashing out of it, and you got... other stuff.
Sam: I found it fair and square; it's my gun.
Taliesin: There's no fair and square. And honestly, if you were anybody else, I would find it when I was rummaging through your corpse later. But it's you. So instead I just use my words, and I'm trying to be a better person. If you really like it, maybe we'll have a special one made that's a little safer. But not that one. That's one of mine.
Sam: I look so cool.
Taliesin: I'll make you something fancy that's a little less prone to explode.
Liam: Scanlan, you should know you always look cool. Always.
Taliesin: Especially with the head thing. It's quite nice.
Marisha: Yeah, this is awesome. Does he still have the blessing?
Matt: The blessing has faded by now.
Taliesin: You should get that tattooed in permanently.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: That's a good idea.
Taliesin: That's a really good idea.
Marisha: I can draw on you with the remaining remnants. That way you have it there, always.
Sam: I love it.
Marisha: Okay. I try to draw the outline of the remaining glyph on his head.
Matt: So you take some ash and charcoal from the nearby rubble and loosely draw the symbol on his forehead. Roll a dexterity check.
Marisha: Okay. Straight dex? Don't fuck me, Gil! 14.
Matt: 14. It's passable.
Marisha: Yeah, that right there. That's perfect. Get that tattooed.
Sam: All right. It's going to happen. I feel like we should all get a tattoo to commemorate this.
Taliesin: On the forehead?
Laura: Definitely on the forehead.
Marisha: Definitely on the forehead.
Liam: Well, maybe in different places. We don't all need to get it in the same place. Maybe on a theme, but not the exact same thing?
Laura: We already all got tattoos, didn't we?
Taliesin: Well, we got tattoos. That's all that matters.
Travis: No, we didn't.
Marisha: I'm not sure what we're talking about anymore.
Laura: No, I thought we got them in character.
Marisha: No, he got them.
Liam: I got one. And I got one.
Laura: Oh, we got the Slayer's Take.
Marisha: Wait, we're branded, and then I've got mine, and then he has his.
Liam: I have the burnt hand on my back. Elven. No, it's not mostly healed. Scanlan Shorthalt! You don't need a gun to look cool. You are the Meat Man. You are Burt Reynolds. You are a fucking hero.
Sam: I'm going to throw it away. Wrist Pocket! (laughter)
Matt: Make a sleight of hand check.
Sam: Nine. 12.
Matt: 12?
Marisha: Bullshit! My passive perception is 21.
Matt: Yeah, you guys totally see him. It's the worst example--
Liam: That's the trick I do for my eight-year-old!
Taliesin: Look at it go! Wow! (laughter)
Travis: You caught it?! You threw it--
Sam: Around the world.
Travis: Oh my god! (laughter)
Travis: I faint. (laughter)
Laura: Hey, while he's out, should we get this sword off him?
Liam: Why?
Laura: Because it seems like he's a little weird from it. Nobody else feels that way?
Taliesin: I think so.
Travis: (gasps) You're so strong. What'd I miss?
Laura: Nothing.
Marisha: We were talking about you. I mean, we were talking about-- sorry, I'm still working on it.
Laura: Yeah, no, it's getting better. Should we get off of the titan, maybe?
Sam: It could fall.
Taliesin: Does anyone want to start walking towards the city to see how bad it really is?
Laura: We'll have to get through the titan, or we can fly down. Outside of that, I don't know.
Sam: How many of us can fly? Well, I guess we could take a couple of trips on the carpet.
Taliesin: We've got a carpet. Some of us have wings.
Liam: My wings are gone.
Marisha: My wings are gone.
Matt: Yeah, your wings are gone. Pike's wings are gone. You guys have your broom; you have the carpet.
Sam: So we can take three trips on the carpet, or something?
Taliesin: We can ride on the broom.
Marisha: Have we taken a short rest, at this point?
Matt: Yeah, you guys would have taken a short rest, at this point.
Marisha: My beast shape's back.
Matt: I'll say for the purposes of when you were helping with the ritual that he was casting, because that's an hour long, that would have been a short rest, easy.
Liam: What are you going to be?
Marisha: Well, what do you want to fly in on? What do you want?
Liam: Dragon?
Marisha: I can't do that. I can do anything in the animal kingdom.
Travis: Before we go down, before we leave, what about Sylas?
Laura: (gasps) Sylas.
Marisha: He flew away.
Laura: Right, but he's repairing somewhere.
Travis: They have coffins, right?
Liam: We deduced that it doesn't take him that long to come back together. And it's been--
Matt: Not terribly long.
Liam: But we're right at that cutoff point.
Matt: Maybe.
Taliesin: Try to scry on him! He's probably having a bad day. There's enough time.
Marisha: I'll scry on him.
Taliesin: There's a gold dragon that should be--
Marisha: Oh, I haven't used any of my 5th-level spells!
Laura: Do you have Daylight, still? Something with sun? I guess sunlight would take him out, because it's during the day.
Marisha: Yeah. I still have 3rd-level spells. Yep. I also have my 6th-level spells. I have Sunbeam learned, which is dope.
Liam: That's all you need.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to scry on him.
Taliesin: Grog, do you want to trade boots, by the way, again?
Matt: Okay, and he's used all of his resistances.
Taliesin: We don't have to, if you really like them.
Marisha: He's used all of his legendary resistances? Is that what that was?
Matt: Yeah. That is a natural 19 plus seven wisdom save. So that's a 26.
Marisha: Oh my god!
Sam: He beat your scry?
Marisha: He rolled a natural 19?
Matt: Natural 19.
Laura: You can't do it?
Marisha: I can do it again. Can I do it again?
Matt: If you have another spell slot for it.
Marisha: I do it again!
Matt: Natural 16 plus seven. So that's a 23.
Sam: That wins.
Laura: Can I try to cast Locate Object on the pants he was wearing?
Liam: That's amazing!
Laura: They're an object.
Taliesin: She has seen them.
Laura: I've seen them!
Taliesin: They're very nice.
Matt: Let me consult the verbiage of--
Liam: This is amazing, and I love you. That is amazing!
Taliesin: That is the greatest thing I've ever heard. Locate Pants. I would like to scry upon the pants. The pantalones.
Liam: On his loafers.
Matt: Okay. All right, cool. And you have a 2nd-level spell slot for this?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: So as you complete the spell and try to focus as hard as you can on the pants of Lord Sylas Briarwood--
Taliesin: He has pajamas he changes into.
Liam: They're Batman pajamas.
Matt: Nothing.
Laura: Nothing? He's definitely recovering naked. Fuck! Nothing.
Marisha: No pants?
Laura: No pants.
Liam: He's in the buck!
Marisha: You guys! He's shirt-cocking somewhere! (laughter)
Matt: He prepared! He knew! "It's the only way they won't find me!" He pulls his tearaways off and chucks them.
Travis: Just goes up and says hi to people.
Marisha: Flashing innocents through all the city!
Matt: It's his dominate action.
Travis: Yeah, right!
Laura: We're going to have to worry about him at some point.
Sam: Not now.
Marisha: I can try and scrying eye him. I also still have one more 5th-level spell.
Laura: Yeah, but how are we going to take him out if you use all your spells to find him?
Marisha: I have a 6th.
Travis: Maybe we let him go.
Liam: She's saying you got one more shot, and we still have some sunlight.
Laura: One more time.
Marisha: One more time.
Matt: Well, you used the scrying eye before you took the long rest in the Feywild, or was it after?
Liam: That was for finding the Sword of Kas, wasn't it, before we slept?
Matt: Yeah, that would have been before. Yeah, okay. So you can use it.
Marisha: But I'm using my 5th-level spell first.
Matt: Okay, you are?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm using my 3rd.
Matt: That's a natural seven.
Sam: That could work.
Matt: As you close your eyes and focus, trying desperately to find the location of Sylas Briarwood, your vision pulls back and is thrust past the titan, and there's a flash of movement. You're suddenly seeing trees. You're sensing somewhere in the thick forest of the Vasper Timberlands. And there, you focus on rapidly flapping bat wings.
Marisha: Still trying to get back? He's still trying to get back!
Matt: You don't know. He's in the forest somewhere. He's in a deep forest with bits of snow around him. And you're only catching glimpses of it as he goes through the shadowed underbrush.
Marisha: No type of landmark?
Matt: Just trees, endless trees.
Laura: He's running away.
Taliesin: I would run if I were him.
Sam: Deal with him another day.
Marisha: He's in the Vasper forest.
Liam: Well, we'll never see him again.
Taliesin: He may finally have had enough.
Marisha: Do you ever think there's a chance for Lady Briarwood to come back?
Laura: I don't think so.
Travis: Never say never.
Liam: Never say never.
Taliesin: Never say never, but probably not.
Laura: I mean, if we can bring people back, they might be able to.
Travis: That's a good point.
Taliesin: He would have to work very hard to make it happen.
Travis: We're going to live a life of paranoia, aren't we?
Taliesin: Well, we knew that going in.
Sam: We'll be okay.
Laura: So do we go see the leaders here?
Sam: Yeah. Let's go.
Taliesin: Let's go see who's left.
Matt: All right.
Sam: To the platinum temple?
Matt: As you guys are having this conversation, around the corner, you see there's a few of the eagle riders that are getting on their eagle back and flying off. There is one figure that stays behind and that turns around and begins to walk your direction. In the chaos, you hadn't noticed that when Vecna had been dispelled, the force cage that had maintained and locked in J'mon Sa Ord had vanished. You see them turn around and look towards you in humanoid form. They approach with the long, jet-black hair, the darkened skin, the beautiful coal-like ember eyes. Tall, almost as tall as Grog, though lithe in form and simply clothed. J'mon approaches. "Well, I'm certainly impressed. I apologize to have not been as much help as I had hoped."
Laura: That was a shitty spell he cast.
Matt: "It seems to be his forte. Nonetheless, the least I can do is offer you a way into the city."
Travis: That would be lovely.
Matt: "I would like to speak with the council that remains, as well. Come with me." J'mon turns around and steps about 20 feet away before the wings sprout out of their back and stretch to each side. You see the large brass dragon form expand, the claws (impact) onto the ground. As they turn their head back over their shoulder, the deep voice of the dragon form: "Hop on."
Laura: I'm going to hold on to Velora. And Trinket, I swear it's going to be the last time, buddy. I'm not going to keep making you go in this necklace much more.
Matt: (bear grunts) Licks the side of your cheek. And closes his eyes, waiting for it.
Laura: Ooh, I love him so much.
Matt: Into the necklace.
Liam: And as Vax and Keyleth get situated on J'mon's back, I whisper in her ears: I was going to say eagle. Giant eagle.
Marisha: Yeah. That's good to know.
Travis: I pick up Pike and put her on my shoulders. Get on the dragon.
Matt: Okay. Pike climbs up, now wingless. "Thank you." Grabs onto the belt you have across your chest.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All right. So do you all climb up onto J'mon's back?
Sam: Absolutely.
Matt: All right. J'mon, in Devo'ssa form, then begins to run at a fast speed towards the edge of the city. Eventually, the wings begin to flap, and with one giant thrust of wind, ascends. And once again, you feel the wind rocket through your hair, as was your entry towards the titan. You begin to crest over the edge of Thar Amphala, over the titan, and down towards the center of Vasselheim, the wind roaring past your face, your cloaks whipping behind you. You have a bird's-eye view of the city that you've essentially saved. And really, did so through a quick jaunt to the Feywild. The Braving Grounds still, while in severe disarray and flames still burn, most everything's under control now. Whatever remains of the remnant cultists, warriors, and undead have either been destroyed, captured, or run out of the city. As you pick up 40, 50 feet over the rooftops, you see as hundreds of survivors have haphazardly armed Bastions, as civilians of Vasselheim have picked up whatever arms were available, of soldiers in the streets, children holding the hands of their families, all glance up and point at the majestic brass dragon that coasts not more than maybe 40, 50 feet ahead, signifying once more a symbol of hope and victory. You hear the shouts behind you. As you begin to make your way around the Heaven's Stair mountain and then up, gliding over the steps leading up towards the platinum sanctuary. As you begin to glide up, you can see the steps are littered with broken bone, splatters of blood, broken bodies and silvered armor, and familiar black sludge, connoting the remains of slain gloomstalkers. The immediate ground conflict is over here and has been for some time. The stillness is now occupied with clusters of wounded riders and platinum warriors that now rest atop the apex of the stair and the sanctuary platform itself before you approach the entryway in the pillars. As you ascend, floating up, Devo'ssa lands right at the top of the stair as all the soldiers and medics who are in the process of handling the wounded, gathering the dead, all stop and look at the majestic brass dragon form as they lower themselves to allow each of you to carefully step off. As you do, you watch as the chatter, the conversation, the quiver of worry, the intensity of the recovery, comes to stillness as each of the soldiers, even those who have seen better days, stand up with a look of acknowledgment, greeting you as you arrive, and all give a respectful bow of the head or kneel to you as you approach and pass by. In the stillness, you begin to walk towards the opening of the sanctuary, the doors open already, and glance over your shoulder to see that J'mon has retaken their human form and is now walking at your side. Entering the sanctuary, you can see folks are rushing around a bit, and they notice your arrival, as well, but are also trying to make sure that everything is accounted for, and there's a bit of hustle and bustle. The old Scalebearer Yon, who greeted you first to Vasselheim, approaches quickly. "Oh, goodness me! Hello? You're well. You've looked better, but so have we. That's fine. I have questions to ask. But perhaps it's best that-- come with me." And darts back towards the central meeting chambers of the Platinum Sanctuary. You can see the circle of pillars that surround the wide marbled floors of the center chamber where all these council meetings have previously taken place. You can see battle has taken place here. While most of the bodies or the wounded or dead have been removed at this point, you can see there are elements of chipped and broken stone and marble. You can see scattered remains and blood stains at points towards the entryway. But most of it appears to have been halted at the entryway. All of the combat has halted within the sanctuary. Glancing past, you can see most of the council you met last is not here. They're probably handling their various portions of the city. But you do see amongst a number of inner guardians of the sanctuary Highbearer Vord, who himself looks like he's seen a bit of a fray, and Allura Vysoren to his side. Both harried, but alive. As soon as you begin to approach, their conversation comes to a halt. As Allura turns and sees you all, her face brightens and she immediately rushes up, tossing any sort of formalities to the side, and runs up. Before she can give you a hug, she sees the child in your arms.
Laura: She's all right.
Matt: "I'm so glad."
Marisha: Yeah, group hug!
Matt: She pulls you in, and you all bundle into this big group hug, heaving breaths of relief cascade through your grouping. You hear the throat clear behind as Vord goes, (clears throat).
Travis: Decorum.
Laura: How's Kima?
Matt: "I assume she's well. She's been doing what she does best, which is wander the streets, destroying things that she doesn't like. I've been keeping a close eye from a distance as best I can. She seems all right."
Taliesin: Any word from Gilmore in the last hour?
Matt: "No, why?"
Marisha: He was in the tower. He was a decoy; we almost slayed him.
Laura: He'd been taken.
Liam: He's all right.
Taliesin: He's all right.
Sam: Do we know where he teleported off to?
Marisha: We sent him off with Cassandra.
Taliesin: Into the woods.
Laura: Into the wood.
Sam: Don't worry, it's a big woods. It'll be okay.
Liam: This city still stands. You have carried out a miracle.
Matt: "I've done nothing. Word seems to--" And at that point, she gets cut off by Highbearer Vord, who steps forward, his arms crossed. "Word seems to have spread, and I wish not to celebrate prematurely. I have reports that you were there, that you did battle with this ancient beast. What is your assurance? What is your confidence that this is indeed over, and we're not lulled into a false sense of security?"
Travis: We're pretty sure he's alive and well. You know, he's a threat right now. (whispering) What, do we have proof?
Laura: Oh, proof.
Taliesin: I've never known a true sense of security. I'm not entirely sure.
Sam: The proof is we're here and we're alive.
Laura: And that titan has stopped moving.
Liam: I am the champion of the Raven Queen. And she has allowed me to track his every movement for a while now.
Matt: "I recall you mentioning that when we last met."
Liam: He's gone.
Travis: There was a process. We had trammels.
Laura: You remembered the word.
Travis: Yes.
Marisha: Do I still have the remains of the broken trammel or did it shatter?
Matt: No, that shit shattered. It turned to dust.
Laura: Yeah, glitter bomb. Oh, glitter-bomb Vecna! I like the idea that he got glitter-bombed.
Matt: "That was my good eye!" (laughter)
Matt: All right. You see, as you guys are discussing, the Highbearer's eyes lock to Vax's, and you see softness return to his face. The tension, the unknowing, begins to subside with a smile, comes across his stilted, older elvish visage. "You all. There was a time I did not look past your beginnings. I am ashamed at my misjudgment." He looks around as folks begin to gather. He acknowledges J'mon, who's approached. They've bowed, carefully. "Many heroes rose to challenge this day. Many we've lost. And many others that remain to remember them. Let us vow to never forget those who gave everything so that we could still stand here to remember. You, Vox Machina, stand as that beacon of hope upon which we all we hold. You may not fully understand the scope of what you have done but I assure you, we do. And we will. We humble of Vasselheim are eternally in your debt. As is much of the ignorant world, perhaps. On behalf of Silver Talon's Reach, I thank you for everything." The rest of the room who's begun to gather now, you see other soldiers that were waiting outside as you first approached have begun to filter in. And as you glance back towards the entry hallway of the Platinum Sanctuary, you see faces. People that greeted you in. People hearing these words resounding in silence, and they all begin to bow low.
Laura: This is weird.
Sam: Should we say something?
Travis: Ask for money?
Laura: They haven't done our fees, right?
Marisha: I'm supremely uncomfortable.
Sam: You are the leader of your people. Maybe you should say something.
Marisha: What?
Sam: You're a leader!
Marisha: No! But I'm not a leader of these people.
Laura: You've been giving us really good inspirational speeches. Get up and say something.
Taliesin: Get up and say something.
Laura: Say something really awesome.
Taliesin: Just tell people it was brilliant and great.
Marisha: Okay. I step forward.
Matt: So as you stand here amongst this procession of warriors, people that now look up and don't see Keyleth the druid, they see the Voice of the Tempest. They see one of the as-to-probably-be-remembered saviors of the city and beyond. All eyes are on you as Highbearer Vord steps away.
Liam: I'm still holding your hand.
Marisha: (chuckles, sighs) The bravery of Vasselheim remains evident on this day, and you all should be proud that your reputation of a city unfallen by invasion or attack remains, and that is only because of the faith and the bravery and the strength of the citizens of this amazing city. We of Vox Machina are proud and honored to have fought by every single one of you, and we vow to continue to stand by your side through the rest of our days. Huzzah!
All: Huzzah! (cheering)
Ashley: Hey, can you hear me?
Matt: With a wave of cheers that roar from within these marbled halls that echo, boom and reverberate--
Marisha: To 1,000 years of Vasselheim! Huzzah!
Matt: Cheers and cries and fists raise and Pike's cheering--
Ashley: Yay! (laughter)
Matt: You see Velora pull away from Allura's arm, who's come by to help you carry her, and she: (weakly) "Yay." And Allura looks to you with an absolute look of respect and pride. Even the Highbearer seems to be taken by the words. Shit, everyone in the room gets temporary hit points, practically.
Marisha: Yeah! 20 hit points now.
Matt: The sun-glass roof, which currently has been sitting within the shadow of the mountain, the sunlight begins to peak past and glide its way across the marble floor as everyone's cheering and the room now, which once was in shadow of the mountain, is now lit up with sunlight. Now you can see the glittering armor that peeks through the dirt, the grime, the blood, shining and sparkling on each of you, across Pike's beautiful armor, across all the warriors that stand here, across the Scalebearer's design, across your hair. The room is filled with light and though you sense the presence of probably Bahamut, glancing down you can't help but think that this is also the approving glance of Pelor, perhaps a bit of the Everlight. As the cheers begin to fade, the crowd begins to pull away. Conversations progress, thank-yous are given, people come up to you. And eventually you guys begin to step out of the Sanctuary and there you look down across the upper platform, looking down over the city. You can see the Birthheart, the Duskmeadow, pillars of smoke rising up as the sun now hangs high in the sky. A cold sensation takes you in the chest, Vax. A small pain. A second one. And your eyes shoot over across to the Raven's Crest, damaged but still standing. You turn around to look at the rest of your family and as you guys look at his face, in but a flash you can see this dark shape behind him. This looming black cloak, this lithe dress that cascades down into a bell and drags across the ground. And there you see the form of the Raven Queen, porcelain mask, long dark hair behind, as her hands slowly creep over the shoulders of Vax'ildan.
Taliesin: I walk to step in between.
Matt: In between the two of them?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: While the lips do not move on this mask, the voice in your head says, "You've done well, but do not approach. This is not for you."
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: Do you recall what you told me once?
Matt: No response. Do you continue to walk?
Taliesin: I do.
Matt: Make a wisdom saving throw.
Liam: Percy.
Taliesin: No. No, that's-- actually, you know what? Hey, that's right. I'm going to Resolve that.
Liam: Freddie.
Taliesin: This is not about you. That's a 19, 22.
Matt: That does not do it.
Taliesin: Damn it. I have a 19.
Matt: I know. Muscles lock into place and you find yourself held there on your third step. The voice, which is omnipresent in your mind, all about, continues. Soothing. Cold, distant but still soothing. The mask slowly looks down towards you. "You have done well, my champion. The skein of destiny has tugged in your wake, and even this victory culminates with the crossing of a few fate-touched souls. By your hand, your bravery, your sacrifice, you ensure a future for all you love and all who will come to love you and what you've done. You may never know the import of your time here, but take solace in the knowledge that you will see the ripples of your actions carry hope for generations to come. My Vax'ildan. It is time. Say your goodbyes, then come join my side." And the hands pull away. She stands there.
Sam: Now? We don't even get a night together or anything?
Marisha: It's not fair.
Laura: We've got a really long time to be alive. You've got an infinite time. What's a few more years?
Marisha: He sacrificed himself in your name; you remain the only ascended. And yet he still loses?
Matt: "He does not lose. The gifts I gave, indeed all of your patrons gave, were so that you," and you watch as her hands extend almost impossibly long around her, "and everyone here still stands. I understand selfishness. I understand the impulse of mortality. But I would hope that you understand that the actions that you've allowed Vax'ildan in this sacrifice are far larger. But we made a deal. With power comes a price."
Marisha: I'm not ready.
Liam: You're ready for your people.
Marisha: Not without you.
Liam: I am so very proud of you, and so grateful for everything you gave to me. You are going to be a strong leader and a wise leader.
Marisha: I'll find you. I promise. I'll see you again.
Liam: I'll never be that far away.
Marisha: Forever.
Liam: And ever and always. Boys. My brothers... I love you.
Sam: We love you, too. Thank you for everything. If you want us to fight her, just say jenga, and we will.
Liam: Maybe from the other side. Someday, just for shits and giggles.
Travis: Can I ask, are you afraid?
Liam: I'm going to go visit my mother, and I'll see all of you again. Freddie.
Taliesin: I do not accept this.
Liam: I know. But I charge you to take good care of my sister and love her. And your friend Keyleth, love her, as well. She will need it. She will need friends.
Taliesin: Of course.
Liam: Thank you for trying.
Sam: I wish I could have done more.
Liam: You did everything. Pickle? Pickle, you showed me the way. I know it doesn't look like that right now, but you absolutely did.
Ashley: I wish I could restore you.
Liam: (chuckles) You taught me purpose, Pickle. Purpose. And I know I will see you again.
Ashley: Isn't there--
Sam: She said is there something we can do? It's hard to hear her.
Liam: Be there for them. You be there for them. You're the light in all our lives.
Laura: No.
Liam: I never had a greater friend than you. And we traveled a lot, I never had a greater friend than you.
Laura: I feel like she's taking part of me away.
Liam: I will bring it with me to remind me of you.
Laura: I don't know how to live.
Liam: I will see you again.
Laura: I know.
Liam: I will see you again. And I will tell your mother that you say hello.
Laura: Please. I love you. I don't accept this.
Liam: I know that it's hard. And I am sorry.
Laura: I'm going to find you.
Liam: I take Keyleth's face in my hands and happily take one more kiss. I'm sorry it's so cold.
Marisha: I don't care. I don't accept this. I love you.
Liam: I will never stop loving you.
Marisha: This isn't fair.
Liam: I know.
Marisha: I guess we have to say goodbye.
Liam: For now. I love you, Keyleth of the Air Ashari.
Marisha: I love you, Vax'ildan. I'll see you again.
Liam: I look to the Raven Queen and as I walk closer, since I leveled up, I use the druid cantrip Druidcraft and grow snowdrops out from where I stand, out to all of my family. Out to where they stand. S.H.I.T.s, thank you. How lucky I have been to have had all of you. How lucky, indeed. Thank you.
Matt: And he turns and walks towards the darkened cloak of his matron. In the darkness of her cloak, you see a brief light, and it's brighter for you. As you walk forward, you see reaching from the light the dark hair, the fair skin, and the wide smile of your mother, Elaina. As she greets you, she says, "I'm so proud." The rest of you watch as her cloak begins to fade like a slowly scattered shadow in creeping sunlight. And as the snowdrop flowers continue with each step, you blink, and it's just feathers. We're going to take a break, we'll be back here in a few minutes, guys. (heavy exhale) Still more of this story to tell. See you guys in a bit. [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. So before we jump back in, our winner in the chat of the giveaway is Mister Milgram. Congratulations. Danoba will reach out to you and get your contact information and get your prize sent off to you, so well done. All right, so. Bringing us back in.
Taliesin: No.
Sam: Something feels different about the table.
Matt: Yeah. As the cold wind subsides and the feathers glide through the wind off the edge of the Silver Talon's Reach, pinnacle of Platinum Sanctuary, you gather your thoughts. Quiet creeps over.
Sam: I feel like I could have taken her if I had a gun. I'm just saying.
Marisha: Scanlan, have we ever told you you're an asshole?
Sam: All the time.
Taliesin: I use Manners on Scanlan.
Matt: All right. What's the save on that?
Taliesin: Wow. Where is it?
Marisha: You got to sort through all your coffee stains.
Taliesin: These are my coffee stains.
Marisha: He's really irritable.
Sam: Jesus, you have so many things.
Taliesin: Yes, I do. It's a--
Laura: I hug Trinket.
Taliesin: Ranged attack roll with an attack bonus equal to my dex modifier plus my proficiency bonus.
Marisha: Keyleth sits next to Vex and lays her head on her shoulder.
Sam: Against AC?
Taliesin: Against you.
Sam: Oh. (laughs) I'm out.
Taliesin: Yeah. That's a six, 12, 24, I think.
Matt: Okay and what's the-- or it just hits and he has to make--
Taliesin: It just hits. You can make a strength check against 20.
Matt: To try and break out of it as an action, right? So as you finish your statement, Percival throws an orb at you and it expands, locks you up into this cage of metal bars and claws and chains, and you're locked in place, unable to move.
Sam: Feels right.
Travis: Was that necessary?
Taliesin: I'll let him out when I'm feeling like it.
Travis: Makes sense.
Marisha: I don't have the strength to argue with him.
Laura: Sorry, Scanlan.
Sam: (muffled) It's okay. I'm okay in here.
Taliesin: Actually, I'll unlock it so he can say that.
Sam: Oh, hi. That was a very touching ceremony. Well, I'll just be in here, crying.
Marisha: Aw.
Laura: Percy, please let him out, I can't take it right now.
Taliesin: I very quickly go through Scanlan's pockets to make sure there's nothing else that I need to take back from him.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Thank you. Nope. I let him out. Manners.
Marisha: That might be the last natural one of this campaign. You have to scream it from a mountaintop, man.
Sam: The golden snitch!
Laura: How could you do that?
Marisha: Betrayal.
Matt: It's mine now. (laughter)
Travis: A celestial hand reaches out of the clouds.
Matt: Hello, next campaign.
Laura: Oh shit.
Marisha: One man's trash.
Laura: Keyleth, dear.
Marisha: Yes?
Laura: I know it was never made official, but I'm assuming you two would've spent your life together. As much of it as he had, anyway.
Marisha: He taught me how to love and I have a hard time with interpersonal relationships.
Laura: I would've never known.
Marisha: So I would've held onto that one for as long as I could've. And I still will.
Laura: I still count you as my sister.
Marisha: As I count you as mine. Going to have to look out for each other now.
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: I'm going to quietly wander outside.
Matt: You're on the platform outside.
Taliesin: Oh, I'm going to break off for a second.
Marisha: Also, fuck that raven bitch.
Laura: She's terrible.
Marisha: What the fuck?
Laura: You know we have a temple to her in Whitestone. I mean, here's the thing though. I feel like I want to destroy it because I hate her so much, but at the same time, I feel like we should leave it because maybe we can talk to him through it. We'll try it.
Travis: Pike.
Ashley: Yeah?
Travis: While we're here, I feel like if Bahamut is the natural enemy of Tiamat, I don't know if I want to be bound to this sword for much longer. I feel like my time of hunting Vecna is done. I feel like we have Arkhan's hand. Maybe if we handed it over to the Platinum-- these people?
Ashley: Okay. Yeah.
Travis: Then somebody else could take up that hunt, right?
Ashley: If that's what you want, Grog. I don't think that's a bad idea.
Travis: Yeah. Okay. I think I want to turn over this sword, but would you stay with me?
Ashley: Of course I will.
Travis: He's very persuasive. Actually, Scanlan, will you come with me also?
Sam: Absolutely.
Travis: All right. Can I make my way back towards somebody official-looking?
Matt: That would be either Highbearer Vord or the one you met earlier.
Travis: Highbearer Orb sounds good.
Matt: As you step back into the Platinum Sanctuary, the voice creeps in your head. "I know not what you're thinking, but know: together we are more powerful than anyone who's wielded me. We could take him down. We could destroy it all. You cannot, you will not discard me."
Travis: Anyone ever? Stronger than anyone that's ever wielded you?
Matt: "Anyone who's ever wielded me. Together, we could bring down anything that bears his title. Anyone who pursues his power."
Ashley: Grog?
Travis: Yeah?
Ashley: What's he saying?
Travis: (sighs) You make a really good point. We're really strong together and unstoppable.
Matt: You feel this (pulse) in your brain, there's a flash vision of the hand, once held in your grasp, swollen atop the actual body of Vecna in the battle. Your vision comes back and that urge in your belly creeps up.
Travis: I mean, hold on, Pike. Maybe we could do a lot of good. We could really rid the world of a lot of bad stuff.
Ashley: Listen, we did that before you knew this sword. We're all strong together. You were strong before it and you'll be strong after it.
Travis: (exhales) Okay. (strained) Highbearer Orb, a moment, please.
Matt: As you enter the chamber once more, the Highbearer turns around. "Yes, Grog Strongjaw, what do you require?"
Travis: I would like to make a deposit.
Matt: "Go on."
Travis: I have on my person the Sword--
Matt: Make a wisdom saving throw.
Travis: Okay. 14.
Matt: The words don't escape your mouth and you realize this was a bad idea.
Travis: (sighs) I'm so sorry to waste your time. I wanted to thank you for hosting us. Bidet. And I start to turn and walk out.
Ashley: I grab him by the hand. So he can't go anywhere.
Sam: Are you not doing this, Grog?
Travis: It's a bad idea.
Matt: "We could do so much together. We can destroy anyone who's ever thought to pray to the now Undying King sealed away. We could wipe his presence from this planet!"
Travis: (strained) Together we could do so much, we could dry eraser-board the planet.
Sam: Whatever your wishes are, Grog. I'll go along with it. If you wish to keep the sword, that's fine with me.
Travis: I want to keep it.
Sam: Great.
Ashley: Scanlan, I don't think this is a good idea.
Sam: Okay. Sell me on this.
Ashley: Look at him!
Sam: He's just flexing his face muscles.
Ashley: He's getting all weird.
Travis: (strained) I want to keep it!
Sam: No, he does this when he needs to go poo. I've seen him do it.
Ashley: I know. He definitely does this when he needs to go poo. But this is so much worse!
Sam: I mean, it's been a hard day. I think we all need a really good bowel movement.
Travis: I start walking out of the Sanctuary.
Matt: Pike, make a strength check.
Ashley: No. Yes.
Matt: So roll and add your strength modifier, which I think is four.
Ashley: It's five.
Matt: Oh, it's five.
Laura: She's got the gauntlets on.
Matt: Gauntlets bring it to 19, so it'll be a plus four, I'm pretty sure.
Ashley: Wait, I think I had a plus one somewhere.
Sam: Did you get some boon or boost or something?
Ashley: With a plus four, it's 17.
Matt: 17. Grog, roll a strength check.
Laura: Roll a one! Roll a one!
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19. Pike, your feet begin to scrape against the marble as Grog's form and strength, which is just a little bit more than you. He's a little more monster than your monster right now.
Ashley: Can I swing my other hand up and try to pull more?
Matt: I'll allow you one more strength check with disadvantage.
Sam: Really conflicted here.
Travis: (strained) I want to help the planet.
Sam: He seems totally normal to me.
Ashley: 14.
Matt: Grog, roll another strength check.
Travis: 15.
Matt: Still, your metal boots are scraping across the marble as you're pulling and trying to hold him back as he's walking out the room. The voice says, "Yes. Together, the two of us."
Travis: (strained) Just the two of us. We can make it if we try! Just the two of us, Kas and I.
Matt: Highbearer Vord says, "Is everything all right?"
Sam: Pike, do you want me to try to stop him? What's going on?
Ashley: I think this is not a good idea. Grog, this is something you wanted to do. You need to fight it.
Travis: Can I try and fight it?
Matt: You already lost at the moment. So yeah, he's currently locked into that mindset.
Sam: Pike, should I do something or no?
Ashley: Well, I think we could both do something, but I want Grog to fight this.
Sam: Why don't I help him fight it? I will cast Suggestion on Grog, using my last level two spell. And suggest that he think long and hard about maybe fighting back against this sword. One more time.
Ashley: Then if it doesn't work, I have an idea.
Matt: All right. So bringing up Suggestion here, make a wisdom saving throw, Grog.
Travis: 11.
Matt: 11. Okay. As the suggestion creeps through your mind, the familiar voice of Scanlan through your ears gives you just enough moment of pause to allow you an additional saving throw against the influence.
Travis: Maybe I'll take mine-- is it a wisdom saving throw?
Matt: Yes, it is.
Travis: That's a five.
Taliesin: My god, we're saved.
Matt: The suggestion does not seem to take hold and he's now dragged Pike almost back to the entryway of the Platinum Sanctuary and the Highbearer is still looking a bit confused.
Sam: He's made his choice.
Ashley: No! Grog. Stop just one moment.
Travis: Okay. I stop.
Ashley: And I look him in the eyes, I cast Greater Restoration. Still have another slot left, will that work?
Matt: I would like you to go ahead and make a wisdom check. This is contested against the wisdom of the sword.
Ashley: I'm casting it at 7th-level because that's all I have left.
Matt: You know what, it's not going to have much of an effect on this really, unfortunately. But the spell's cast. So roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: You're smarter than a sword!
Ashley: Do I get an advantage?
Matt: Unfortunately, no in the circumstance. Just roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier, which I believe is a five?
Ashley: I have. Yeah, it's five. So nine.
Marisha: Oh!
Sam: Oh!
Matt: Well, (laughs).
Ashley: You die.
Matt: Yeah, you actually die. No. That's not worth it. It's fine.
Sam: Vax comes back and kills you.
Matt: Yeah. I rolled a seven and he has a wisdom modifier of plus one.
Laura: Oh shit!
Marisha: Oh my god, you did it!
Matt: Like I legitimately-- that's pretty stupid.
Taliesin: Did you use my die?
Matt: No, I did not use your die. I used my purple one. I'm saving yours for the next campaign. So as the strength of wills between the cleric and the sword begin to combat, the warmth of Pike's friendship and the force of Sarenrae's guidance washes through your body and the cold steel of the sword begins to warm to the touch. And for a brief minute, it gets so warm it's hot. It burns your fingertips and you instinctively throw the blade to the ground. It clatters and slides about 15 feet from you, spiralling and sparking across the marble floor. The Highbearer's foot catches it in place. He leans forward. "Now I'm certainly curious."
Travis: (deep breath) It is the Sword of Kas.
Matt: You watch as the color begins to somewhat return to Grog's face, his eyes returning to their natural pigment. The sallow, sunken features of his body begin to fill out once more, the influence of the blade having left his psyche and physicality.
Ashley: Oh. You're back to light gray again. You look great.
Travis: I'm feeling so achy. What happened? Whew!
Ashley: You made a decision and I felt it was the right thing to do.
Travis: Yeah. We kept the sword, right?
Ashley: Yeah, it's there.
Sam: They're holding it for you.
Travis: Oh. Okay.
Matt: At this point, you can see two of the other Scalebearer guardians have flanked the sides of the Highbearer. As he removes his foot from the blade and steps back, they both carefully lift it with a gauntlet and present it before him and he glances down. "So you say this blade aided you?"
Travis: Yes. That blade, careful with it, very powerful. He is bent on the destruction of one thing and one thing only. Vecna.
Matt: "Good to know. We'll keep this within our vaults in case the day or time arises."
Travis: Wait! I have something else. Then I show the hand of Arkhan.
Matt: "Yes?" It flops limply in your grasp.
Travis: Oh! The person that owned this hand-- okay, stay with me. Chopped this off and took Vecna's hand and stuck it on and then this got left over. So this is not his hand anymore and the one that he does have is Vecna's. So if you use your noodle, you can use this to trace him.
Matt: "There are limitations to the use of such objects. It may be of some aid to us, but the knowledge of this individual is far more important. However, we will accept this thing." And he ushers his hand forward and another servant comes forward and retrieves the hand from you and folds the fingers up and places it within a small pillow. Backs away.
Ashley: I think that was a great idea.
Travis: Yeah, right? It was pretty smart.
Ashley: Yes, it was very smart.
Matt: "What was the name of this? This current wielder of the Hand of Vecna."
Travis: Arkin. Arkeen?
Sam: Arkhan.
Travis: Arkhan. Arkhan the Fool. The Cruel. The--
Sam: Misguided.
Matt: "Arkhan the Misguided?"
Travis: Don't underestimate him. He's really buff and devious.
Sam: And he's got another hand that he could chop off too. One in reserve.
Matt: "Very well. So we'll begin to do research and seek out this Arkhan the Cruel?"
Travis: Cool. Yeah, he was pretty cool. He was pretty cool.
Sam: I was fighting a god. I didn't really catch his name.
Travis: Well see, don't hurt him. He actually helped us defeat Vecna. He pulled a tricksy-doodle and took the hand.
Matt: "I would do whatever it takes to not trust individuals who would steal such an artifact with their own means."
Travis: Sure.
Matt: "We'll find this individual. Rest assured. The will of Bahamut turned on him now, I doubt he'll find a place to hide. Thank you very much."
Travis: Yep. Beep beep. All right, Pike, shall we away?
Ashley: We shall away.
Travis: Scanlan, shall we away?
Sam: Away we shall.
Travis: Away we-- oui oui?
Ashley: Oui oui!
Sam: Oui oui!
Sam: Bidet.
Travis: Bidet.
Ashley: Bidet.
Matt: "Bidet." As you exit the Sanctuary, you meet up with the rest of your friends that are still taking their quiet moments of reflection on the exterior platform on the outside of the Sanctuary overlooking the eastern side of Vasselheim.
Ashley: How do you feel?
Travis: I feel good. I feel like pursuing Vecna was something that we all did together and I feel like whatever we do now is new and I felt like I was going to have to do that on my own and I don't want to do that.
Laura: Grog, you wouldn't have to do anything on your own.
Travis: That's good to know.
Laura: Yeah. We're in this together.
Sam: I've got a thing, actually, I've got to get to.
Laura: Can I walk over to Percy? Are you still over by yourself?
Taliesin: Well, yeah. I'll take care of something. I'm sitting in a corner and I'm staring into the reflection of my sword. And I'm gently tapping the contract in my pocket. And I'm going to say, Ipkesh.
Laura: No. I'm going to sit down next to you.
Taliesin: You're too late. You've been doing a thing. Could you bring him back? Would it, the thing that you gave me, bring him back?
Matt: There's no answer.
Taliesin: Hmm. Nothing at all. All right.
Laura: Now I'm going to sit down next to you. How are you?
Taliesin: I have no idea. I think I really miss my family. I think I miss my sisters and my parents. I think I was going to be a clockmaker once. I haven't thought about that. There was a moment. Do you remember when we met?
Laura: I do.
Taliesin: I, for a brief time, thought that I had died within that prison and I was having a fever dream from starvation and this was what that felt like, was my mind making stories of friends and adventures and these things I would never do because I was a coward and fool. I miss my family so much and I've done some terrible things. I gave Grog that sword.
Laura: You did.
Taliesin: It didn't feel real.
Laura: Now it does.
Taliesin: I don't know. This is new. I'm sorry.
Laura: What were you going to do? Are you going to fight the Raven Queen for me?
Taliesin: Many years ago, I went to make a deal with her and she told me that I was broken and that I had always been broken. Part of me was going to save your brother and really, I just wanted to prove it to her. I wanted to hurt her for hurting me.
Laura: I think we're all broken, Percy.
Taliesin: I am so tired of hurting people.
Laura: You don't have to hurt anyone anymore.
Taliesin: I love you very much.
Laura: I love you.
Taliesin: This has been a terrible day.
Laura: It's horrible!
Taliesin: Where's Kiki? Where's Scanlan? I think I owe him an apology. Oh god, I owe Grog an apology. Maybe I'll not apologize to Grog. That sounds like a really terrible idea.
Laura: Darling.
Taliesin: Yes?
Laura: You're a good person and you're not broken anymore. All right? We'll filling each other's gaps. We'll be the glue.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Laura: And don't do anything crazy anymore. No deals with Raven Queens, all right? Let's not fight any more gods.
Taliesin: I was going to say let's destroy the one in Whitestone. Maybe we could seal it up, leave it because you know, but--
Laura: I want to see if I can talk to him through it. Is that stupid?
Taliesin: How would I know? Seems worth a shot. I'm too tired to be angry.
Laura: We did a thing today. A pretty big thing.
Taliesin: Was that today? It legitimately feels like a week ago at this point. (laughter)
Taliesin: It's been a long day. Yeah, we'll rejoin. Sorry about Manners. That was rude.
Sam: Are you apologizing for something?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: That's stupid.
Taliesin: I know.
Sam: I never said sorry for leaving!
Taliesin: Yeah, but you're you. You don't have to apologize, we just assume.
Sam: Well, I'm sorry. Sorry I left.
Taliesin: I will not accept it so that when you come to your senses later, you don't feel like you've compromised. But thank you. (laughter)
Sam: That's fair.
Travis: You handing out apologies?
Taliesin: No. Yes. Sorry about the skull.
Marisha: Oh. I'm pretty sure you just handed out an apology after you just said you weren't going to hand out an apology.
Taliesin: I'm a human. I'm made of contradictions. You people wouldn't understand.
Marisha: I think Percy is a walking contradiction.
Travis: I will consider accepting your apology if you tell me whatever happened to it.
Taliesin: (sighs) Oh my god. I legitimately don't remember.
Marisha: I thought-- wait, we--
Matt: At that point, two hands drape around the side of Grog's shoulder up top and Vex as the long golden braids down the arms of Allura Vysoren says, "My friend Grog, best not to worry about it. Wherever it is, it's beyond our grasp now."
Travis: Okay, Allura. (laughter)
Marisha: Did you just sitcom mug? "Okay, Allura!" (laughter)
Matt: If we could've freeze-framed and rolled credits on that to end the campaign, I would have been happy. (laughs) Allura takes her hands back, then reaches over and musses up the side of Pike's hair. (sighs) "We've been through quite a bit together, haven't we?"
Laura: So much.
Matt: "Lot of ups and downs."
Marisha: You were quite an inspiration, Allura. I hope you know. You inspired me quite a lot.
Matt: "I'm only doing what everybody else is doing in this world: make it up as you go along."
Marisha: We know a lot about that. Allura, is Vasselheim going to be looking for members to join the council?
Matt: "Vasselheim? What do you mean? Vasselheim is mostly a religious council, if you know."
Marisha: Totally.
Matt: "I could put in a word, but I didn't consider this really your type of--"
Marisha: No, right.
Matt: "Here?"
Sam: She's asking for somebody else, I'm pretty sure she wasn't asking for her.
Marisha: I actually was, actually.
Matt: "Oh. I can inquire."
Marisha: I was thinking Pike, but I don't know--
Matt: "If I do recall, you have a temple here. One that you pretty much built."
Taliesin: How is that temple right now?
Matt: "That's a very good question. Pike? Would you like to go see your temple?"
Ashley: I would like to go see my temple.
Matt: "Very well." She waves her fingers a bit and casts Fly on all of you.
Laura: Oh shit, on everybody?!
Matt: On a high enough level, you can.
Ashley: Whoa.
Travis: Pike! Go upside down! (wookiee growl)
Laura: That was the best wookiee noise you've ever made, babe!
Taliesin: That was a really good wookiee noise.
Travis: (mediocre wookiee growl)
Matt: Retracted immediately. As she was here helping defend, she didn't waste her 8th-level slot, she is able to get you guys all flying for the moment and you all coast. As she finishes casting the spell, you could see some of the nearby wardens of the Platinum Sanctuary go, "Um--" "I know it's arcane, shut up. It's fine." You all take off the steps and begin to glide down over to the city, and there you can already see people are coming out of their homes. Exactly. So eventually, you find your way north to the Quadroads, towards the base of the Heaven Stair Mountain, where the temple resides. The temple looks like it's sustained a little bit of damage. It looks like a portion of the upper floor of the three-tier tower-- Colosseum-esque, but it does taper a bit towards the top. The top part has partially fallen in and it looks like it's seen wear and tear, but it doesn't look like it's been destroyed or anything. As you come up to the temple, you can already see there are refugees of homes that were destroyed from the incursion of the Braving Grounds that are being gathered in and the temple's filled with people. On the outside, you see Gesyra, the older woman who helped you found the temple and build it. As she approaches, she's now one of the Priests of Rebirth and has been working with you for some time and turns and sees your face. You can see her graying hair, which is bunned up very tightly in the back. She has her spectacles and she has the long robes of blue and gold. She sees you. "My Pike!" She rushes up and gives you a hug. She's much bigger than you, being a human, but her posture puts her almost on your level. "I'm so glad you're safe."
Ashley: It's so wonderful to see your face.
Matt: "We've housed who we can. We're a bit at capacity at the moment."
Ashley: Okay. Well, it looks a bit better than I thought it would.
Matt: "We did our best to defend. Is it done?"
Ashley: It's done.
Matt: You see her eyes crack at that moment and tears begin to flow. She smiles. "I knew you could do it."
Ashley: Well, we all did.
Matt: She looks around at the rest of you, pats you on the head for a minute and pulls away and goes, "You get to wear the greatest outfits, don't you?"
Ashley: (giggles)
Matt: "Well, anything you need, food, we have room for a few more."
Sam: I would suggest that we-- there's bars here, right? In Vasselheim? They drink, don't they?
Matt: Oh, yeah. There's bars here.
Marisha: Maybe they do a dry city after a certain time.
Matt: Are you kidding me? Religion and alcohol go together perfectly. That's a time-honored tradition!
Sam: Why don't we go find a tavern somewhere and let these people pick up the pieces, and give them their space?
Marisha: Do you need any type of water, or anything we can immediately assist you with?
Matt: "Clean water would be wonderful."
Marisha: Do you have somewhere to put it?
Matt: "Just a moment!" And she goes inside for a moment and calls out, four of the other lower acolytes of Sarenrae's temple, and they all have various buckets and reservoirs--
Marisha: I burn as many Create Water spells as it takes to fill them up.
Matt: They bring you inside, where there's the large statue of Sarenrae, where you had your first vision that called you to come find her. And there is a fountain as part of that and a reservoir in the bottom that has currently been mostly emptied to facilitate everyone here who needed water or to clean wounds. You help fill that and you very, very quickly manage to get the temple back to an easily sustainable level.
Taliesin: Pike?
Ashley: Yes?
Taliesin: I could use your assistance. I don't think I should have this, and I need this to be taken away from me before I do something foolish. And I hand Pike my contract.
Ashley: (sighs) I take it. Percy, what is this?
Taliesin: This, I thought, was proof that I was in control of myself. But it's just a terrible thing waiting to happen.
Sam: Ashley, I just texted you the contract.
Taliesin: Thank you. How do you have it on autosave?! Do you just have it?
Sam: Yeah.
Ashley: I mean, I somewhat know what it is.
Taliesin: I don't think it can be destroyed. But maybe it can be put far away.
Ashley: I will keep this, at the very least, very far from you.
Taliesin: I have every faith in you. Thank you. I think I'm done with that.
Sam: Pike, I have a porno book that I really think I shouldn't have anymore. Can I give it to you to take it away--
Taliesin: I'll take it away!
Sam: Oh, you'll take it? Okay.
Travis: I would like to bid on it, as well. Yeah, I have some money still--
Sam: It's not great.
Taliesin: Can you text it to us actually?
Ashley: Could you text me the book?
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: That's a three jpeg, man. Sorry.
Matt: So you guys go off to find a tavern and drink together?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah. We need to go have some toasts to Vax.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All right.
Laura: You said Allura took Velora?
Matt: Yeah. Well, at this point, she's probably still carrying her with you.
Laura: Oh, okay. I thought you said Allura took her away. Okay.
Matt: Yeah, because Allura took her off of you-- You know what? No, she's probably being tended to at the Platinum Sanctuary at the moment, seeing to her wounds.
Laura: Did I just leave her? I feel weird just leaving her.
Marisha: She'll be fine. She'll be safe.
Travis: She's in some pretty solid hands.
Laura: I'll run back and talk to her.
Matt: Okay. So you head back into the Sanctuary and retrieve her.
Laura: I'm going to make sure her wounds were tended because she was pretty busted up.
Matt: She was. Thankfully, there are a number of clerics and healers available that can take a moment away from the wounded of the battle to deal with a little girl. And when you come to her, she's still a bit battered and bruised. But she's all right.
Laura: Is there anyone who can send me to Syngorn?
Taliesin: Why doesn't she stay with us for a while?
Matt: You're asking this of anybody at the temple?
Laura: Do you think we should--
Sam: We can take a day.
Taliesin: I think maybe a little time spent in our company, as opposed to your father's company, would not be the worst idea.
Laura: Maybe a message of Sending. Can anyone do that? Pike? Do you have the message of Sending?
Sam: To whom?
Laura: To my father.
Marisha: To let him know that his daughter is still alive.
Ashley: I don't have it with me, but I--
Laura: Okay. Allura, you've done it before.
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: Could you send something to my father?
Matt: "I could. I could also bring her there, if you'd like."
Laura: No. Velora, would you want to go home right now?
Matt: Right now she's holding onto your neck a bit. She looks at you. "I miss you."
Laura: I miss you too.
Matt: "Can I stay a bit longer?"
Laura: Okay.
Matt: "Okay."
Taliesin: I think that's a great idea.
Laura: I think so too. Allura, will you say that Velora is safe, and that I'll be paying a visit very soon to return her?
Matt: "I believe that," and for a moment she looks just beyond your eyes, squints, "he's aware."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: "So to drinks?"
Laura: To drinks.
Taliesin: To drinks.
Matt: "I don't really drink. But after a day like today, I think I need one."
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: Apple juice for you, little one!
Matt: She giggles in your ear. All right.
Laura: I'm bringing my sister to a bar.
Sam: Your nearly dead sister.
Marisha: Yeah. She's going to have to be introduced at some point.
Matt: Yeah. Allura takes a moment and squints her eyes for a second, apparently Sending another message, and then nodding. She leads you guys towards the Quadroads, and finds a pub called The Quarry's End. And it's not too far from Sarenrae's temple, which is why she chose it, and it looks to be like it was near a quarry that was built into the mountain that either dried up or was closed down for some reason, and then a tavern was opened instead as a means of still making money. It's super dive-y, it smells of stained wood and spilled wine. It's musty and perfect. And as you all come in, it's mostly empty, as people are still in the process of trying to figure things out. The few that are in there appear to be wounded soldiers that, as opposed to getting medical help, are in the process of drinking themselves into a numb state. But you find a table, you sit down, one of the barmaids comes up to you, goes: "Drinking away the fray, are you?"
Taliesin: I put, like, 20 gold on the table.
Matt: "Oh!"
Taliesin: We will take the cheapest, worst beer you have, and a round for everyone in the bar.
Matt: "But of course, sir! My pleasure!" Takes the coin.
Taliesin: If everyone's all right with that.
Laura: Of course, dear.
Travis: Can I also start pulling out the remaining eight expensive-ass bottles of wine from the bag of holding?
Marisha: Hell yeah! Drunk as shit! Now's the time!
Matt: Within moments, your table is covered in terrible beer and really expensive wine!
Travis: Expensive-ass!
Laura: That's what you wrote down, too.
Travis: Expensive-ass bottles of wine.
Matt: You pull two tables together and you guys are in the process-- You're a fair bit into your cups, and then the somewhat ajar door on the exterior slams open as the light filters in from the outside, and there you see standing the general half-height of an armored halfling, partially bloodied, armor dented as shit.
Travis: Kima!
Marisha: Kima!
Matt: Kima, as she walks in, sauntering in, with her blade being sheathed in the back of her giant scabbard, her Holy Avenger. "Got your message, honey! Not going to pass up a drink after a day like this!" (cracking) "Ow, ow, ow!" She comes and sits down next to Allura and puts her arm around her real fast. "This is new!" and points to the drink in front of Allura.
Taliesin: It's a special occasion.
Marisha: We're bad influences.
Travis: Yeah. Desperate times and all that.
Matt: "Good. I guess that's why we're friends."
Marisha: I see you're working the late shift.
Matt: "Well, you know. When there's streets crawling with skeletons, I got to be there."
Taliesin: Been having a good time, then?
Matt: "Oh, it's been amazing! It's been terrible! Terrible. But amazing!"
Marisha: Well, we frontloaded our hours.
Laura: Can we have another cup?
Matt: "Yeah!" The barmaid comes by, gets another cup, and leaves you guys all to drink and swap stories.
Taliesin: That thing that I was bugging you about?
Marisha: Which one? You bug me about a lot of things.
Taliesin: Well, that's fair. Now that I have a bit of alcohol in me.
Marisha: Yeah, and you ask me after I have a bit of alcohol in me. And I scry on Cassandra.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Oh god, he flipped a page. I hate that.
Matt: You take a long, deep sip of your drink and then close your eyes as you complete the scrying ritual you've half-scrawled on the dark wood wall on the side of the tavern. Your vision goes cloudy, and you feel yourself being transitioned rapidly through wind and cloud as the temperature of your atmosphere begins to drop, and there, you begin to break cloud cover to look down upon Whitestone. Your vision jumps once more to the exterior of the castle, jumps once more, and there you see, lying in bed, covers pulled up to her chest, with at least three different servants and one medical personnel there at her side, bag open, tending to her wounds. She's asleep, but she's breathing.
Marisha: Looks like she's been tended to like a proper de Rolo.
Laura: Did you see Kaylie and Gilmore?
Marisha: Did I see Kaylie and Gilmore?
Matt: Not in the room, no.
Taliesin: She made it back to Whitestone. One would assume that's how she got there.
Marisha: She was not doing well. Gilmore was the most able-bodied. I'm assuming he got her there. I hope.
Taliesin: I'm sure. I have faith.
Marisha: I'll scry on the rest of them tomorrow.
Taliesin: I'm drunk. Don't get used to it.
Marisha: Faithless until the end.
Taliesin: Faithless until the end.
Marisha: Thank you, Percy.
Taliesin: Thank you, Keyleth.
Marisha: You taught me just the right amount of how to be a shithead. Just enough.
Sam: We should toast to Vax'ildan, our fallen member.
Matt: At which point, Kima goes, "Yeah, where is that asshole, anyway?"
Sam: He's really stealthy.
Matt: "Ain't that the truth. All right." She grabs her cup.
Laura: Apple juice.
Matt: She's holding a cup.
Sam: What do you have, Ashley?
Ashley: I have a cup, and it's a vintage cup. I don't need to talk about this. (laughter)
Matt: Glasses raised, and at this point as the glasses are raised, you can hear whispers off to the side. You glance over, and you can see one of the nearby tables, which is filled with four Bastions who had been drinking to the battle and have now taken notice and seemingly recognized who's at the table across the way. They're all staring, and they all grab their glasses and raise them, too.
Laura: To Vax'ildan. He was the best of us.
Marisha: The most selfless.
Sam: The most frequently naked.
Marisha: Second to you.
Travis: The most frustrating.
Taliesin: The brightest and the darkest.
Sam: That's true. To Vax.
All: To Vax.
Matt: "So. What comes next?"
Travis: What does come next?
Marisha: (sighs) It's hard to think after a day that feels like a week, like today.
Laura: Syngorn and Whitestone, I would assume.
Taliesin: Home for a bit, at least. And of course, everybody is welcome, always.
Marisha: I've got to get back to Zephrah.
Sam: Do we have to check on Greyskull Keep?
Laura: In Emon?
Sam: I don't know.
Laura: Someone should stay there.
Travis: We left it as an outpost. I wouldn't mind going back to Whitestone for a bit.
Taliesin: I'll also say, for those of you, especially. Grog, you have your freedoms, and if you wanted to become lord of Greystone and have a place of your own that you could invite us to, as opposed to wandering.
Marisha: Greyskull?
Taliesin: Greyskull.
Travis: (hesitant noises)
Laura: Or you could just hang in Whitestone.
Travis: I'll think about it. It seems like that has responsibilities.
Laura: The Grand Poobah has a lot of responsibilities, too.
Travis: I do. There is an updated tour.
Sam: We'll go to Whitestone and figure it out. That's where Kaylie is, right? We assume.
Laura: Potentially.
Marisha: I don't think I can go back to Whitestone with you.
Laura: Why?
Sam: Oh, why? You've got to go back to your people?
Marisha: I have to go back to Zephrah.
Taliesin: Well, I think we're going to need help getting to Whitestone, and then I think it's going to take at least a day for you to regain the power to return to your people.
Marisha: Bad influences, all of you. Assholes.
Taliesin: We're not getting rid of you quite that easily.
Marisha: All right. One day.
Travis: If you can bear it.
Marisha: And then I want to not see your faces for a bit.
Sam: Sure, that makes sense. Pikey-poo, where are you going?
Ashley: Well, I'd like to come with you guys for a little bit because frankly, I don't really want to be alone for a while.
Taliesin: I don't think any of us do.
Travis: I pull her into the biggest hug.
Ashley: Oh, P-- oh, Grog.
Travis: You almost called me your own name. It's okay. You'll be fine.
Ashley: I was going to call you Poobah, but then I wanted to say your real name.
Marisha: We could go back to Whitestone whenever. I've still got a little bit of juice left.
Laura: You've got enough juice to get us to Whitestone right now?
Marisha: I do, believe it or fucking not.
Travis: I don't. You gave us the option.
Marisha: What?
Travis: You said believe it or fucking not. I call nope.
Marisha: Oh, it was more of a rhetorical-- it's like a trick or treat-- why do we still try to explain things to him? I haven't learned.
Ashley: Because he's learning.
Matt: Kima's clasping her cup and goes, "I can watch this all day."
Travis: Thank you, Pike.
Ashley: He learns something new every day.
Taliesin: How did Whitestone look?
Matt: It's blurred at a distance. Aside from the specific target of your scrying, you don't get much of a vision, just an idea of the blurry exterior.
Laura: Should we drunkenly walk to the tree?
Sam: Are we transporting tonight? Why don't we chill for a night?
Laura: Don't you want to see your daughter?
Sam: Well, of course, but I'm drunk and bloody.
Marisha: We can drunkenly walk there and take our time and enjoy the stars and we can-- oh! Scanlan--
Sam: Did you have a drink?
Marisha: Scanlan.
Sam: What can we do?
Marisha: We can do little arcane cantrips when no one's looking and break the rules a little bit. Of Vasselheim. Just cantrips, though.
Sam: You're such a rebel.
Marisha: I know.
Taliesin: I forgot.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: No, you're fine.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: Nothing. You're fine. Love you very much.
Marisha: I've lost the love of my life today. I'm allowed to be belligerent.
Taliesin: You are.
Travis: Are we throwing caution to the wind?
Sam: Sure.
Travis: I do have something that might up the party a little bit.
Sam: Okay, what is it?
Travis: I reach into the bag of holding and I pull out a little leather pouch.
Marisha: Do you have that sandkheg shit?
Laura: No.
Travis: What?
Sam: What is that? What have you got?
Travis: So I've got this little deck of cards and every time someone pulls from it, great shit happens.
Ashley: I'm in.
Travis: One. Two. Scanlan?
Sam: I've seen this before, haven't I? I think I was with you when you got the guy rich. Wasn't I?
Matt: No, he was on his own.
Travis: He's the Lord of the Quadroads now.
Sam: I was with him when he did one of them, though.
Matt: You're semi-aware that there's something going on. Make an arcana check.
Taliesin: Oh, this could go so badly.
Sam: 15.
Matt: 15. Something creeping in the back of your mind, something you've learned, something you've heard, really tells you that this is powerful and chaotic.
Sam: I'll watch for now.
Travis: You'll partake.
Sam: Probably.
Travis: Three. Percy?
Taliesin: I think I've had enough for one day.
Sam: If we're going to do that, we should go back to Whitestone first.
Travis: Why? This place is already fucked up. Let's get it on. Keyleth?
Marisha: I am drunk enough to where I'm not going to stop it or argue against it, but I won't partake, so that's pretty good for me.
Travis: Why are you so resistant to gifts and wonder? Magic?
Marisha: Grog, you've had two weapons speak to you--
Travis: Don't be jelly.
Laura: Nothing powerful comes without a price. We saw that. We just saw that with the Raven Queen. Power comes at a price. You think that wonderful things are going to be pulled out of your hands here, and there's going to be no consequences?
Travis: Pretty much.
Marisha: Grog, haven't we been through enough shit to know nothing's free?
Travis: What?
Marisha: Fuck it.
Travis: Here or Whitestone?
Taliesin: Oh, definitely not at Whitestone.
Travis: All right. Pike, you want one? (laughter)
Taliesin: I've always worried about the two of you.
Ashley: Well, I think you should pick a card, and we deal with one as of right now. And then maybe I'll pick one later.
Travis: Well, jeez, I thought we were all having tequila shots and going crazy and taking pictures and writing our name on the bathroom walls, but it seems like everybody's lost their nerve. I put it back in the bag of holding. (laughter and groaning)
Matt: You're such an asshole!
Taliesin: You're such a dick.
Laura: Don't do it!
Marisha: You insult our resolve and hold out on us all at the same time?
Travis: The night's still young.
Ashley: Ugh, just pick one!
Matt: All right.
Sam: We're traveling now? We're drunk!
Marisha: Yeah!
Taliesin: Let's drive a tree. It'll be fun.
Matt: You all wander outside of the tavern, find your way over to the nearest tree that's functional. It takes you a little bit, because a lot of trees look thicker at a distance when you're drunk than when you approach.
Marisha: Yeah, no, this one won't work. No, this won't work. Sorry.
Taliesin: That's more of a shrub.
Marisha: Sorry. Next one. That one looks good.
Taliesin: Yes, that looks nice.
Sam: That's a young boy.
Taliesin: Oh, yes.
Matt: Eventually, you find the tree that'll work, which is interesting, because you have this combination of people that are recognizing you as Vox Machina, as the whispered saviors of the town as you drunkenly stumble through the city streets, naught but hours after sealing a recently ascended god. It's strangely so perfect for you. As you approach the tree that you find that'll work, Allura has her arm over Kima. She's a lightweight. "You go on ahead. We need to help here with the construction effort."
Laura: You've got to get your construction on?
Matt: "No, we're just--" And then Kima goes, "Yes!"
Travis: (laughing) She doesn't handle that booze very well.
Matt: "We'll see you soon. Travel safe, and thank you."
Sam: Love you.
Matt: "Okay." (laughter)
Matt: Kima drags her hand. Kima's drank far more, but is sober. She can hold her liquor. "All right, thank you, guys!" And grabs her hand and pulls her off, and they both wave bye as they step back into the city. You complete your spell, emerging from the exterior of the Sun Tree. Back in Whitestone, the comfort is here once more. It seems to be just past dusk at this point.
Marisha: (slurred) See? When you travel-- wait, no. When you travel west to east, you gain time. See?
Sam: Yeah, you called it.
Ashley: Time travel.
Marisha: (slurred) Happy hour is right now in Whitestone. Just saying.
Taliesin: Let's head home?
Sam: That works.
Marisha: Okay. Heading home works.
Matt: You guys make your way to the castle. Food is presented. Everyone's happy to see you back. What do you want to do?
Sam: Now or forever?
Matt: Oh, we'll get to the forever bit in a minute.
Marisha: Cry myself to sleep?
Sam: I want to go see Kaylie, I guess, if she's around. Are we hanging out together, or are we breaking off?
Laura: (quietly) Go see your daughter.
Sam: All right. I'm going to go see Kaylie.
Matt: Okay. Asking around a bit, it doesn't take much to find Kaylie in your old room in Whitestone, the one where you both left when you first exited the group for a short time. She's in there, bandaged up, and looks like she's taking a dagger and throwing it into the wall, then walking over and pulling it back out, sitting back on the bed and throwing it, and it bounces off. The hilt hits. She's like, "Fuck." Picks it back up and doesn't notice you in the doorway. As she sits back down, she looks over.
Sam: Hi.
Matt: "Hi."
Sam: You with a dagger in your hand's always a little scary.
Matt: "Why, does it frighten you?"
Sam: Not any--
Matt: "Boo!"
Sam: (yelps) Okay, it frightens me a little.
Matt: She sheathes it on the side.
Sam: You okay?
Matt: "I've had better days. I'm all right."
Sam: Good.
Matt: "You're alive."
Sam: Surprisingly, yes. We won.
Matt: "I figured, if you're standing here before me. That's good. Congratulations."
Sam: Thanks. I'm sorry that I had to go do that. I had to.
Matt: "I'd be disappointed if you'd've came back with me. More important things."
Sam: So what now? Do you want to go back to Ank'Harel and keep criming?
Matt: You watch for a brief second her tough exterior break, and you can see her eyes welling up a little bit. She looks at the ground for a minute, then looks back up at you. "I'm glad you're safe."
Sam: I'm so happy I got to see you again. I thought for a second that when we said goodbye, it was the last time.
Matt: "I didn't. I know you too well, at this point. You're too much of a turd to die."
Sam: That's true. Only good people die.
Matt: "I'd like to go back to Ank'Harel. I don't know if this whole Meat Man thing's for me anymore."
Sam: Yeah. No, I hear you. I don't know if it's for me, either. It was fun.
Matt: "It was a lot of fun!"
Sam: It felt like we were killing time a little bit. There's something else that we should do. I don't know what. Maybe your thing won't be my thing.
Matt: "Let's find someone to pass on the mantle to, eh?"
Sam: That's a good idea.
Matt: "I think the Meat Man should be there, just not us."
Sam: Yeah, that's a great idea. We'll train a replacement.
Matt: "Still take a percentage. I mean, we worked this hard!"
Sam: Passive income, right? It's the dream.
Matt: "It's the meat and potatoes of any good business venture."
Sam: I should have thought of that. That's amazing.
Matt: "That's why the daughter's an upgrade. After that, I don't know. I hate to admit it, but--"
Sam: Did you finish school?
Matt: "No."
Sam: Do you want to?
Matt: "Yeah."
Sam: All right. Well, let's do that, then. You go to school.
Matt: "I'm not really made for a lyceum. We can go visit. I didn't expect you to recommend schooling!"
Sam: Listen, I've made a lot of mistakes in my life, and I don't want you to make the same ones. I love you, and I want to support you in whatever you want to do, at this point. My time has come, and I've done my thing, and my thing is done, and now I want to help you do whatever it is that you want to do. If that means I can be close to you, then great, but if it doesn't, then I'll come visit every once in a while. We made quite a bit of money as the Meat Man.
Matt: "Aye, that we did."
Sam: And it's a good sum to get started.
Matt: "Would it be enough to pay for a right top-end education so I can gloat over all the other kids that are raised by the various lords and ladies of Emon? Become one of those privileged kids."
Sam: You can have the best education.
Matt: "That's what I want to do. I want to rub it in their face."
Sam: All right. Education for spite. I like that.
Matt: "That sounds like a Shorthalt endeavor."
Sam: Sure. Whatever you need.
Matt: She stands up from the bed and walks over and puts her hand on your shoulder in a pat, pat. She pulls you into a hug and rests her head on your shoulder and doesn't say anything.
Sam: You won't have to worry about me anymore.
Matt: "I'm going to worry about you every day."
Sam: Thank you. Thank you for coming into my life.
Matt: "Thank you for being enough of a shitbag to bring me into it."
Sam: I'm so happy. I made so many mistakes, but it turns out that some of them weren't mistakes, after all.
Matt: "I'm still young and unlearned. Time will tell." She pulls you a little tighter in.
Sam: I'll snuggle and fall asleep in the room at some point.
Matt: She smells the alcohol on your breath and (groans). "Go lie there. I'm going to--" (groans) She winces as her wound in her shoulder flares up. "I need some fresh air. You go to sleep." Exhaustion hits you, and you end up passing out at the foot of the bed.
Sam: I'm in my room now?
Matt: Yeah, your old room.
Laura: I'm going to tuck Velora into bed.
Matt: She's asleep by the time you get there. Travel and everything has tuckered her out. You tuck her in, put the blanket up.
Laura: I tiptoe out of the room, and I find Percy.
Taliesin: I'll be in Cassandra's room.
Laura: Percival?
Taliesin: Yes?
Laura: Could I talk to you for a moment?
Taliesin: Of course.
Laura: I completely understand if you want to stay with Cassandra for the night. Would you mind not being very comfortable, though? I was thinking of camping in the woods.
Taliesin: I think that sounds lovely, and you're always better than comfortable. I had a thought, actually. My god, it is hard surviving, isn't it? Perhaps Keyleth could use a friend right now, and I know that you carry one with you.
Laura: Trinket?
Taliesin: Just for a bit. I think she could use a companion who's not going to apologize or give too much sympathy.
Laura: Of course. I send Trinket to Keyleth's room.
Matt: As Trinket ascends the stairs, he looks back over the shoulder. (questioning noise)
Laura: She might cry a lot on you. All right, dear?
Matt: Makes it up the stairs.
Laura: It's going to be a lot harder to stay warm out in the woods now.
Taliesin: We'll figure something out. I grew up here. I'm used to it.
Laura: I wanted to remember how I used to camp with Vax when we were kids.
Taliesin: I'd like to see that.
Laura: I guess we go out and set up a little fire.
Matt: You guys make your way into the woods and set up a camp for the evening's rest together. Keyleth, are you in your room? The door (creaks) and Trinket comes in and stares right at you. (slurps) And licks up the side of your face. Your hair sticks up for a minute.
Marisha: Oh, buddy!
Matt: (bear noises) He leans in and plops down on the ground, a giant beanbag mound of bear fur.
Marisha: I cover Trinket with snot and tears as I sob into his belly. First night alone, but with Trinket.
Taliesin: Best teddy bear ever.
Marisha: Aware of the gesture. I cry.
Matt: Eventually the exhaustion and the alcohol hits you, and you fall asleep, cuddled up in the warm embrace of a very fantastic, recently meteor-struck bear.
Marisha: Drool and eyeliner and dirt.
Matt: Voice of the Tempest.
Sam: You were wearing eyeliner to our fight?
Marisha: Remember, I charcoal war-painted?
Sam: That makes sense.
Travis: Has everybody gone off?
Matt: Pike actually would still be around.
Travis: I make my way sneakily outside.
Matt: Pike, what are you doing?
Ashley: There's a couple of things.
Taliesin: There's a lovely tea rose garden in the back.
Sam: She's letting Grog go first.
Travis: Oh, really?
Ashley: If you wanted to go somewhere, sneak away.
Travis: Oh, you know, I was just gonna, um.
Matt: Who wants to go first? Pike? Grog? Who's going first?
Ashley: Just for a little bit, for about an hour, I want to go-- not deep into the woods where Percy and Vex are, but somewhere that's pretty for about an hour, and I'll make my way back.
Matt: As you're out there on your own, contemplating quietly, ruminating on the day, a faint howl finds the air, and stepping from the shadows, you see a large gray wolf: Galdric, the wolf that once belonged to the previous champion of the Raven Queen, Purvan, who was given charge over the forests on the outside. Saunters up to you. He is a large wolf. You are a tiny gnome. He steps up, sits next to you. In this little break in the trees where you can see the moon breaking through some of the passing clouds over Whitestone. The night is so cold, you can see your breath in the dark air through the beams of moonlight that make it through the canopy. As the wolf looks down at you, his intense eyes making a full scan of what you are, there's a recognition to his expression. The wolf looks back up. (howls) And gives a long, baleful howl, seemingly in remembrance and acknowledging that one with a familiar path to his has found his way back to the realm of the Raven Queen, as well.
Ashley: You are a beautiful creature. This might be strange, but I give him a hug.
Matt: You hug Galdric. You're used to Trinket, who's pretty well manicured. Galdric, not so much. There are clusters of fur that are dirt-encrusted.
Travis: Shit in them.
Matt: Probably. He's not a full, ruined beast. He lives in the forest. Smells of earth, dust, and nature. Doesn't seem to react to your hug, but allows it.
Ashley: I sit next to him.
Matt: He seems to share the space with you for the time that you're in the forest. Not a strong connection, but an acknowledgement, mainly focusing on the moon before it passes through the canopy and is no longer visible.
Ashley: I came out here to build a little something, so I'm glad to have you out here for a little bit. Thank you for staying with me.
Matt: The one ear to the side perks open to listen to your statement, but the vision doesn't meet yours, still focused in space as it fades. You get the essence that the wolf acknowledges you.
Ashley: (sighs) I feel like Grog would be so happy right now to be around a wolf. I give him a scratch behind his ear.
Matt: He actually seems to enjoy it and gives into it. One of the giant hind legs of the wolf--
Ashley: Oh, that's a good boy. I give out a little howl.
Matt: He howls along with you. (howls)
Ashley: That was for my friend Vax.
Matt: The wolf gets up, circles you once, and makes his way into the darkness of the forest once more.
Ashley: Goodbye. After a bit, I head back.
Matt: Okay. Grog?
Travis: I wander outside, where I'm by myself. Do I see anyone?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Like it matters. Oh! 17.
Matt: Glancing about, there are some of the Pale Guard around. Nobody that you would be looking for, necessarily. You seem to be open to do as you please.
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: I pull a card.
Sam: Yes!
Taliesin: I'm so proud of you.
Marisha: Wait, where are you?
Laura: Outside of the castle.
Marisha: In the middle of fucking Whitestone?
Matt: Oh my god, Grog.
Ashley: Wait, as I'm walking back, do I see him at all?
Matt: (chuckles) Out in front of the castle, out in the courtyard area?
Travis: Yeah. It's nighttime.
Matt: Make a perception check, Pike.
Sam: Make it good.
Taliesin: Roll a natural 20.
Ashley: I rolled a natural 20.
Marisha: Shut your mouth!
Travis: I rolled a bunch of hit dice from our short rest.
Matt: As you're quietly climbing up the walkway to the base of Castle Whitestone--
Ashley: He's out in the open.
Matt: Yeah. You do. You look up and see Grog pull a card from the deck.
Ashley: I stand and watch for a moment.
Sam: Oh, here's the deck.
Laura: Oh my god. It is really happening. I can't fucking believe--
Marisha: Travis, pull good! Oh, please don't bring pit fiends on our heads.
Travis: I might have.
Sam: Negative two to everything.
Matt: Hold on. Deck of Many Things. All right, so. Grog, what did you pull?
Ashley: Oh shit.
Matt: Void.
Taliesin: Oh no!
Marisha: That can't be good.
Matt: I'm sure it's fine.
Laura: That's the worst one you could get!
Sam: The crew's laughing. Something's bad. Something's very bad.
Travis: I'm pretty sure--
Laura: That is so bad!
Taliesin: Oh my god! (laughs)
Sam: Wait, Pike saw him.
Matt: Pike.
Sam: You get a reaction.
Marisha: Did our internet go? (screaming and groaning)
Matt: Of all moments.
Taliesin: (cackles) This is your doing!
Matt: While we're here, Grog, I'm going to read you the card. This black card spells disaster. Your soul is drawn from your body and contained in an object in a place of the DM's choice. One or more powerful beings guard the place. While your soul is trapped in this way, your body is incapacitated. A Wish spell can't restore your soul, but the spell reveals the location of the object that holds it. You draw no more cards.
Sam: Wait, read it again.
Travis: I'll tell you. My soul is drawn from my body. My body is incapacitated. It is placed within an object that the DM chooses. A Wish spell will tell you the location of the object, but will not reverse the action.
Sam: Can anything reverse it?
Matt: Finding it and retrieving the object and restoring the soul.
Marisha: You fucking dick. You're a fucking dick!
Laura: Well, the campaign goes on for another-- I can't believe you just fucking did that.
Sam: Wait, she rolled.
Laura: Ashley?
Sam: She rolled something. Oh, that was her 20 from before.
Matt: Looks like we may have her back. Hopefully, because this is going to be-- oh my god.
Marisha: It is bad!
Sam: Oh my god, Travis. Why would you do that?
Matt: Give me the card. Let this be a lesson to everybody out there.
Laura: Oh my god!
Marisha: You said you weren't going to bring the Deck of Many Things into the game, and then you did!
Matt: No regrets.
Taliesin: Hashtag no regrets.
Matt: No "regerts" at all.
Taliesin: Oh god, I can't even.
Laura: Is Ashley texting?
Taliesin: She's just yelling obscenities.
Sam: Her internet just died.
Marisha: (mispronouncing) Worst fucking timing! Internet has gone! Timing! Worst fucking timing!
Taliesin: It's just obscenities. That's all it is.
Matt: So Grog, as you draw the card from the deck, your vision goes tunneled, dark, to a pinpoint: a singular pinpoint of deep, ruby red. And that's all. Your consciousness falls into a catatonic state.
Sam: Does she get a reaction or anything?
Matt: No.
Marisha: She doesn't get shit? She just watches?
Matt: She sees it happen.
Sam: With her 20, she saw!
Matt: I know. She's aware.
Sam: She can't yell? She can't cast something?
Matt: No, because he pulled the card. It's not a big (grunts). It's a (flip).
Sam: All right.
Matt: All righty, so.
Marisha: I guess we'll add that to our to do list.
Taliesin: I'd like to think that in the next campaign, we're going to find you in a glass coffin like Sleeping fucking Beauty.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: My body's still there.
Sam: She rolled a 17.
Marisha: So Grog's body is still there--
Matt: He's catatonic until the soul's returned.
Marisha: Catatonic.
Matt: To be fair, you've sealed Vecna. At level 19 and 20, this is not going to be an earth-shattering experience.
Marisha: Sure, it's just an annoyance.
Matt: And for the sake of the epilogue evening you guys, all planning to return to your various lives to relax--
Travis: I'm there catatonic with an open deck of cards in my hand like this.
Liam: You dingus!
Marisha: Goddamn it!
Travis: Somebody's going to find me.
Sam: To Grog! He was the dumbest of us all. He was the dumb and the dumb.
Taliesin: May he rest in bed sores for all eternity.
Matt: You spend the next two weeks finding your way through the halls of Pandemonium.
Laura: I can't fucking believe that shit.
Marisha: Wait, we spend two weeks?
Sam: The halls of Pandemonium?
Matt: Yes, where his soul is currently encapsulated.
Sam: God, you asshole.
Marisha: In what?
Travis: What are the halls of Pandemonium?
Marisha: I should be mourning right now, and I'm hunting your stupid ass down!
Travis: I'm keeping you occupied. I really did this for you.
Matt: Pandemonium is a plane of madness  a great mass of rock riddled with tunnels carved by howling winds. It is cold, noisy, and dark, with no natural light. Wind quickly extinguishes nonmagical open flames such as torches and campfires. It also makes conversation possible only by yelling, and even then only at a maximum distance of ten feet. Most of the plane's inhabitants are creatures that were banished to the plane with no hope of escape, and many of them have been driven mad by the incessant winds or forced to take shelter in places where the winds die down until they sound like distant cries of torment. So yeah, that's a fun time. It's a fun adventure you guys go on to retrieve Grog's soul.
Marisha: Great therapy lesson.
Travis: We'll one-shot it later. (laughter)
Marisha: A healing trip.
Sam: It's a good side quest for the future someday.
Matt: A good moment of, "Oh, we're not going to get a rest." Hopefully, we'll get Ashley back, but in the meantime, for the purposes of this, you come back two weeks after, extremely angry. Grog, as suddenly you're restored, and that tiny bead of light fades back, and you're not outside anymore. You're actually sitting in a reclined, cushioned couch or chair of some kind in Castle Whitestone, and all of your currently living friends are all around you, looking very angry.
Travis: Oh! It got me a chair.
Laura: You fucking idiot.
Travis: What?
Laura: I cannot believe you did that.
Travis: Did what?
Marisha: Keyleth backhands him with the hand that has the most rings on it, of power.
Travis: Do I lose any hit points?
Marisha: Probably not!
Travis: What? What happened?
Taliesin: You lost card privileges.
Sam: Yep. Hand them over.
Taliesin: Oh, we already took the whole deck.
Travis: Wait!
Sam: You may lose your belt for this, friend.
Laura: Yeah. You're lucky we didn't shave your beard. Yeah.
Travis: I fucked up.
Laura: You fucked up a lot.
Sam: Percy lost his arm rescuing you!
Travis: I'm sorry.
Taliesin: Are you?
Travis: No. (laughter)
Travis: All right. I just thought, it did fantastic things before! I don't know why it doesn't like me so much.
Taliesin: I don't think it was personal.
Travis: Are you sure?
Sam: You've learned a lesson that we had to pay for.
Travis: All right. Sorry, guys. Sorry, Pike.
Ashley: Hello? (laughter)
Matt: Look at that timing. I don't even know, man.
Sam: Pike, can you hear us?
Ashley: My internet crashed at the worst fucking time.
Marisha: We can't even see you right now. You're a silhouette on the screen, but we can hear you.
Matt: Pike, do you know what happened?
Sam: Yeah, I texted her the gist of what happened.
Ashley: Okay, so you disappeared?
Matt: Grog's soul was trapped somewhere on the plane of Pandemonium, and you guys had to take two weeks and battle your way through a terrible plane filled with wind and madness and creatures that were banished there to never escape, eventually battling some terrible beast that was guarding the gem that contained his soul, returned, and he just now woke up on the couch after restoring his consciousness to his body, and has been slapped in the face by Keyleth and told that he lost card privileges.
Travis: (tearfully) And Percy lost his arm!
Ashley: Oh no. Wait, what?!
Sam: Well, I may have been fibbing about that part.
Marisha: It might be a cheap joke.
Taliesin: I might have lost my arm or I might be hiding it behind my back. I'm not sure.
Travis: So news flash, pro tip  the cards may be dangerous.
Taliesin: That's good to know.
Ashley: Okay. Maybe we leave it alone, then.
Laura: Hey! Hi! Oh my god, that was craziness.
Sam: Nice. Any other things that we need to wrap up for the evening?
Taliesin: I pull a card from the deck.
Sam: No! I invoke the third contract.
Matt: I'll draw the card for you. Whichever one smashes Whitestone.
Taliesin: Suddenly, I lose everything.
Matt: Exactly. Oh my god, if you pull that card?
Taliesin: Wouldn't that be amazing?
Matt: Don't you even.
Laura: Penniless?
Matt: Everything he owns crumbles to dust.
Travis: Everything.
Matt: All material wealth.
Taliesin: It's why I don't pull cards!
Marisha: How fucked would that be? So fucked.
Sam: Bring it in.
Matt: After this unexpected side venture, you all say your goodbyes for the time being, scatter to the various business you have to. Pike? Is there anything else you wanted to do?
Ashley: Are we leaving?
Matt: Was there anything else this evening you needed to situate? I was going to begin to facilitate the epilogue.
Sam: What do you want to do?
Ashley: Can I grab Keyleth and Vex real quick?
Marisha: Yeah. Girl power.
Ashley: I'll take them to the little spot where I was in the woods.
Laura: Two weeks ago. (laughter)
Travis: Sorry.
Ashley: Okay. So hey, I put something together. It's dumb, but I made a bench and I put Vax's name on it and I didn't want to make him a headstone because that seems so final. Maybe he's still around somewhere.
Laura: He is.
Ashley: I also have these. I take out two of his feathers that I grabbed. And I thought you could put this with the feathers in your hair, Vex and Keyleth, you could do something with this.
Marisha: I think I have the perfect place for this. Thank you.
Laura: Thank you, Pike.
Marisha: Thank you so much.
Ashley: I'm sure you could make it look a little prettier than it is but--
Marisha: I think it's perfect.
Laura: It's absolutely perfect.
Marisha: Where are we going to put it?
Laura: Do you want it out in the woods?
Ashley: Maybe we should just leave it here.
Laura: I like it.
Marisha: I think he'd like that.
Ashley: I think he would too.
Marisha: Something you have to stumble upon. It's a little hidden.
Laura: Yeah, it's stealthy!
Marisha: Stealthy memorial!
Ashley: Okay. I'll let you guys stay. I just wanted to do one more thing. Okay, I walk over to where Scanlan is.
Sam: You mean two weeks ago or are we after--
Matt: No, this is after the random, unexpected Pandemonium trip.
Ashley: Wait, is Grog on the trip or was that--
Matt: Well, no. You guys had to go there to find his soul.
Marisha: Grog was the reason for this season!
Travis: To be fair, nothing really happened in that mind.
Matt: That's true.
Ashley: Hey Scanlan!
Sam: Oi, Pike.
Ashley: How are you doing?
Sam: Now that Percy's arm has healed, I'm fine.
Ashley: Now that was bad, wasn't it?
Sam: Yeah. That bugbear came out of nowhere.
Ashley: The bugbear, you said?
Sam: Don't worry about it. I'm fine.
Ashley: I thought I forgot about that, maybe. Listen, I'm glad you're alive.
Sam: Me too. Thanks for saving us all in that big fight.
Ashley: Thank you for saving us all. I don't really have a whole lot to say, I care for you a lot and I wanted to let you know that.
Sam: I care for you, Pike. I've always loved you since the moment I met you and I'm so happy that we became friends as well.
Ashley: Me too.
Sam: Thank you for everything. Thank you for putting up with me when I was a shit and I hope that I've become more tolerable for you. After all that we've been through, I was wondering if I could ask you a question. I have a proposal for you, if you don't mind. Well, now that everything is safe again and back to normal, I was wondering if I could take you on a date. To a restaurant or something, then maybe if it goes well, we could go on another date and that's it.
Ashley: Well, I actually was going to ask you the same thing!
Sam: Well then. I'll let you do it! No, you do it! I don't want to-- I take it back! I don't ask you on a date!
Marisha: Oh.
Ashley: Oh no.
Sam: Oh no! The internet! Can you hear me, Ashley? (groaning)
Sam: Denied.
Taliesin: That was amazing!
Laura: That was a yes.
Matt: That was a yes.
Sam: That was a yes.
Marisha: It's 2017. When will we will have better Skype?
Taliesin: That's the most Scanlan thing I could have ever hoped for.
Matt: Remember, we're America. We have the worst Internet in the world. Weirdly. Net neutrality. As you guys gather, say your temporary goodbyes, knowing that you're all still very in touch with each other, knowing you care about each other, you begin to forge whatever life looks like outside of perpetual danger and the constant onslaught and struggle of terrors and heroic necessity. Scanlan.
Sam: Oh! Sorry, I'm having a text romance with Ashley Johnson right now.
Matt: Then I'll come back to you.
Sam: No. I'm ready. I can pull myself away from Pike for a second.
Matt: What does Scanlan do in the next year? Next five years, next ten years?
Sam: (clears throat) I have one prepared. Well, she's not here, so I don't know but I wrote down--
Ashley: Can you hear me at all?
Sam: Oh god, I love this!
Ashley: Sorry, my Internet keeps going out.
Travis: It's okay.
Laura: Perfect timing, Ash.
Matt: It's all right. So assuming that you guys went on a date. I'm discussing with Scanlan his epilogue. What does he wish to do in the next year, five and ten years?
Sam: My plan, what I wrote down, was find Kaylie, make sure she's okay. Help Pike repair Vasselheim or literally whatever she wants to do. Give all money to Kaylie except for my platinum bracelets with sapphires worth 2,500 gold that I send anonymously to Sybil to make sure she's taken care of. Long term, I would like to use my Wish/Teleport to check on Kaylie every now and then, at school or wherever she ends up.
Matt: She ends up at the Alabaster Lyceum in Emon, which is one of the highest places of learning. You have connections to the council and with the money that you've given her, she lords over many of the children of the various nobles.
Taliesin: I would have recommended my tutor, but of course, Vax slit his throat right about the time you met him. He was a good tutor before that.
Sam: I don't know but we'll wait until we get to Ashley to find out how things are going with our dating. Otherwise, in my free time, I would love to use my time to write down the epic stories of Vox Machina, from our meeting to saving the world and everything in between. It will be difficult as Scanlan is not an author, but he will rely on guidance from Ioun herself and may even ask Sprigg to be a copy-editor of sorts. The working title is "In the Belly of Dragons: The Legend of Scanlan Shorthalt and Vox Machina". Working title.
Travis: "In the Anus of Dragons," accurately.
Sam: And I hope to finish the book by the time I turn 71.
Travis: How old are you, exactly?
Sam: Oh, I'd be 70. When we started, I was 69.
Laura: You were that young?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: You motherfucker!
Taliesin: You're full of shit.
Laura: Oh my god, I can't believe you were that young.
Travis: This whole time?
Laura: I thought you were 300 years old. Jesus.
Taliesin: Just full of shit.
Sam: I mean, that's about it. I think every once in a while, I would maybe try to see if I could see Vax or check in on him somehow, but I don't know how other than to scry.
Matt: Which does not succeed, but you still send your thoughts and wishes into the ether in hopes that they find their way there. Okay.
Matt: So following off that, the story of Taryon Darrington, which I have something written for here based off what he did. Feel free to embellish or change how you see fit. As the months pass, the Darrington family has adjusted somewhat to a more humble lifestyle, and their work of charity within the city of Deastok and the neighboring lands goes far to clean up the family name from where it once was. While their influence was greatly diminished and they're essentially a political laughingstock, the message of their work still strikes a chord in some of the more philanthropic lords to the north and an alliance is made that protects the Darrington name and interests from the Myriad's ever wiley grasp for the time being. Doty 3.0 now stands a shining golden color, gifted the materials by a thankful ore baron whom Taryon's Brigade of Adventurers saved from a terrifying doppelgnger's plot. His troupe continues to gain a small bit of notoriety in the southern lands of the Dwendalian Empire, some good, some humorous. His mother, Mariya, ever cheering them on and making their tabards for years before passing away peacefully, proud of her boy. Her passing brings the rest of the family closer together than it's ever been. And the charitable efforts, surprisingly, of Howaardt now encompass the Darrington Brigade as a non-profit adventuring league. During a gambling run in Port Demali to follow, Taryon stumbles upon a now slightly more haggard Lawrence, now working as a tanner. They immediately fell right back where they left off and Lawrence cashed in his life as a leather worker to join the Brigade alongside Taryon.
Laura: Oh! That's so great!
Sam: I love it!
Matt: Anything you wish to add to that?
Sam: No, I had written a letter, but yours is much better. Yeah, that's great.
Laura: You wrote a letter?
Sam: I didn't know how much Matt was going to put.
Matt: You could still read the letter.
Sam: I can read the end of the letter.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Oh, Sam.
Sam: No, it's fine. You did good.
Matt: I didn't mean to step on anything you did.
Sam: No, you did great. Much better.
Matt: Pike. Wilhand spends his twilight years helping with small tasks around the emerging House of the Everlight as it is built on the northern edge of Westruun before age finally takes him in peace amongst friends and family. The red-brick house you grew up in and Grog grew along with you for a while is left in your name and there you know you have ever a homestead in Westruun in memory of Wilhand and the friendships you forged. What else would you like to do? What else do you wish to achieve, Pike, as the years go on? That could pertain to you and whatever relationship with Scanlan you wish to embellish on.
Sam: Should we roll for dating? (laughter)
Matt: There's a chart somewhere in second edition.
Ashley: I don't know what Grog's plans are, but I do know if there were any adventuring to be had, that her and Grog got to on some adventures together.
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: And that he always has a place in my home and I know I would love to-- I'm sure at this point, fully rebuild the temple in Vasselheim. I think things have gone well with Scanlan. Oh man, I'm getting so emotional.
Sam: Like second-base well or even better than that?
Ashley: Well, I think if we spend enough time together, maybe, I don't know, can we see what else life has for us together?
Sam: Absolutely.
Ashley: That doesn't have to mean anything more. I know your life, what you like to do and I'll give you freedom.
Sam: No, I think the most free I've ever been is with you.
Ashley: I think there's no one I would rather spend the rest of my days with, besides my pal Grog. I think you get a two-for-one deal!
Sam: Sure. The weird family dynamic.
Travis: You guys keep it quiet up there, please?
Sam: Weird roommates. Giant lower floor, tiny upper floor.
Liam: The ceiling is one inch above your head.
Ashley: I think at some point, I ask Scanlan for his hand in marriage.
Sam: I mean, I would have to ask Wilhand for his permission.
Matt: He passed away.
Sam: Well then, I would go leave some flowers at the grave.
Travis: You can ask me.
Sam: Oh, I will ask Grog for permission. Grog, as the father figure in our weird household, I would like to ask for your permission to wed your not-daughter, Pike, who is much smarter and older than you.
Travis: You're a scoundrel. Do you have any money?
Sam: I have this little black rock that you gave me.
Travis: That's worth literally nothing. How about you give her this? And I take out the rare black sapphire and put it in your hand.
Sam: That's pretty good.
Travis: I'm fucking watching you, you understand?
Sam: I won't hurt her, I promise.
Travis: Don't you slip up!
Sam: Nope, I know you could kill me in my sleep.
Travis: I know. I usually put dead people in the bag of holding, but there's always a first! Treat her right.
Sam: Would you walk me down the aisle and by walk me down the aisle, I mean carry me down the aisle? (laughter)
Travis: (high-pitched) Yes.
Sam: All right, let's have a group weird hug.
Matt: Aw. All righty. Anything else, Pike? Are you happy with that?
Sam: Do I have to convert, Pike?
Ashley: What's that?
Sam: Do I have to convert? I'm an Iounian.
Ashley: No.
Sam: Okay, I'm good.
Laura: You're Iounish?
Ashley: Sarenrae's very accepting of other gods.
Sam: Multi-faith ceremony. There you go.
Marisha: 16 rites of passage.
Matt: Anything else, Pike?
Ashley: No.
Matt: Okay. All right, we'll leave it at that. Percival. Vex'ahlia. Since your fates are rather intertwined, I ask you both what are your plans, what are your plots?
Taliesin: I don't really think we should settle down. That seems like a lot.
Laura: (laughs)
Taliesin: I think that I would like to start a very complicated art project that's going to take many years. I'm not going to work on it all the time, day and night, but I'm going to invest some time in this.
Laura: Are you going to be in your shop a lot?
Taliesin: No, I'm going to build a clocktower. Like the one in Prague. I'm going to take many years and it's going to sit at the front of the castle so it will be outside and there will be other people working on it. It will, as a proper clock does, it will tell our story. Once a year, everything will play out.
Laura: Holy shit. That's good.
Taliesin: And we may start inviting tinkering artisans every year for Whitestone to come show off things that are not necessarily useful, but to show off fanciful inventions and things that are beautiful.
Laura: I love that idea.
Taliesin: But let's not stay here too often. (laughter)
Laura: No, although we will have to stay here for nine months every once in a while, because I think we should rebuild the families that we've lost.
Taliesin: There's a lot of names.
Laura: So many names.
Taliesin: So many names.
Matt: How many names?
Taliesin: So many ways to irritate your father.
Laura: Five names.
Taliesin: Oh, at the very least.
Laura: Five.
Marisha: That's a lot of names. Very long names.
Liam: At least three sets of twins. (laughter)
Taliesin: Jesus.
Laura: I definitely want to build a statue to Trinket, the wonder bear.
Marisha: The wonder bear.
Sam: Is he dead?
Laura: No, Trinket's around.
Sam: Damn it.
Laura: So centuries of people in Whitestone will remember their mascot, Trinket.
Marisha: He prevents forest fires. (laughter)
Travis: Ranger's hat.
Laura: As the years pass, we should start a festival and bears will be everywhere.
Taliesin: There will be. Bears will be involved in the festival. Obviously. Especially since the clock tower is part of the festival and bears feature heavily in it.
Laura: Perfect.
Travis: Only you can prevent forest fires.
Taliesin: Only you can prevent the rise of Vecna. (laughter)
Laura: I was hoping to never stop attempting to contact Vax through the temple of the Raven Queen.
Matt: You do notice that the raven population of Whitestone seems to be perpetually seeing blooms every year, far more than it used to.
Laura: I cast Speak with Animals on them and I constantly try to communicate with him.
Matt: Okay, I mean they all seem to be ravens happy to live in this space, but it seems to be more in essence the vicinity more than a specific raven.
Laura: Would you be all right if we increased the Pelor temple here?
Taliesin: Yes, I trust your judgment. It is not for me, but I'm definitely all right with anything that makes you happy.
Laura: Thank you, darling.
Taliesin: To be fair, you'd do it anyway.
Laura: Pretty much, yeah.
Taliesin: I help Cassandra as best I can. I think at least once a year we get out and do something irresponsible.
Laura: Definitely.
Taliesin: Maybe sometimes drag these kids out for shenanigans.
Matt: Cassandra, as a note by the way. She's had a few pretty difficult brushes with death and the experiences definitely left a mark on her. Within the year following the battle with Vecna, she begins to remind you of yourself at a very dark time. Recognizing that, you come to her and help pull her from a dangerous edge of lashing out at the place she's worked so hard to build. You help her realize that this guilt she's been holding as being a tool of manipulation the times that she has been is not her fault and used against the ones she loves. In that determination to no longer be a tool for others to use, she asks Vex to teach her and train her. To not just be the lady beacon of Whitestone, but also join in as one of its protectors.
Laura: At least she had some good promise a long time ago.
Matt: "That was some time, but I've seen what you can do and, well, I deign to think of how dangerous the three of us would be if I could reach your level."
Laura: We'll make you strong, darling.
Taliesin: We also insist that she leave Whitestone at least once a year for a period of time to do fuck all.
Laura: Yeah, there's a beautiful place called Dalen's Closet. I think you would love it.
Taliesin: Let's not, well yes, there's, well.
Matt: Anything else? You guys happy with that?
Taliesin: I'm content to make a clock tower and make art and never make another weapon. I'm good.
Matt: Hmm, all right.
Laura: I have "Make Whitestone the tits," written in my notes of things that I want to do.
Taliesin: It's got a bear. I'm imagining the bear from Burning Man actually.
Marisha: Penny Bear.
Laura: Yeah, Penny Bear. I like it.
Matt: There you go. Grog.
Travis: I'm so fascinated by Vasselheim. I have so many interests that I feel it only proper to go back and turn myself in to the authorities for punching one of the guards in the face and take whatever punishment they have for me.
Matt: All right, as you head back to the district in which these incursions happened, you are immediately recognized and much to their completely taken aback reaction they bring you in until somebody of the higher Bastions goes, "You fools. This is one of Vox Machina. What's wrong with you?" "Oh I didn't--" And they all point up at the large titan which is--
Travis: Yeah, up top, that's where we were.
Matt: Which currently has been cleared out of any cursed undead that they know of. It's a process that takes a while, but it becomes a monument to that battle and it becomes converted into a symbol of hope for the city. For generations to come in Vasselheim, that titan will stand there, lording over the city, as a reminder of what transpired, of what could have been lost, and what was saved that day in memory of those that were lost. And as you point up to that and they all realize, they slowly remove your shackles.
Travis: Oh, I'm free to go?
Matt: "Yes, sir. Thank you, thank you."
Travis: That's unexpected. Could you point me in the direction of a library?
Matt: "Sure, come with me." As you begin to walk out you watch as a familiar figure steps up to this portion of the Bastions' guard post, you see a familiar merchant who rushes up and goes, "I was being summoned. They found the-- why's he walking free?"
Travis: Yes. You. You will come with me.
Matt: "Gentlemen, this is the man who punched me. This is the man who ruined my business. I can--"
Travis: Gentlemen, whose word are you going to take? The savior of Vasselheim, or his new tutor?
Matt: "What?" (laughter)
Matt: The guards go, "Cobalt Reserve library station is down that way to the left. Hard to miss, big blue dome. You two work this out." And they retract back into the guard post, leaving the two of you in the street.
Travis: Well, unless you have something better to do, you could contribute to one of the greatest people to ever pass through this city and help me learn to read a little bit more. Would that be a problem? I only have 8,000 gold to give you.
Matt: Make a persuasion check with advantage.
Sam: 8,000 gold.
Travis: Natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: (laughter) Didn't even need the advantage. All right.
Sam: 8,000 gold.
Matt: "Well, that would certainly go far for reparations for the damage you've caused to both my business, my person and my psyche." (laughter)
Matt: "But I'm curious to see what this change of heart is, so sure. But you're going to pay upfront."
Travis: Yes, 8,000 gold.
Matt: "Holy shit."
Travis: I could carry it if you want.
Matt: "We'll just make a quick stop over by my shop, please."
Travis: Fair enough.
Matt: And he drags it and it leaves this big heavy groove in the ground as he pulls it along. "Nope, nope, it's good, I got it" (struggling noises) And leads you to the Cobalt Reserve and for as long as you'll have him he'll begin to tutor you.
Travis: I'd like to learn to read a bit more. I'd like to split some time in the temple of Kord.
Matt: Which takes a while to get rebuilt and you probably help out a bit, too, Earthbreaker Groon, who survived, though many of his--
Travis: Oh, he did survive.
Matt: He did survive, yeah. He's made of hardier stuff.
Travis: I'd also like to bring Pike out every once in a while and we give challengers a shot in the Crucible, but mostly I'm trying to improve my mind and looking for the next challenge.
Matt: I like it.
Liam: Bring him up to eight intelligence.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Seven's a good start. (laughter)
Matt: Perfect. Happy with that?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, then. Keyleth.
Marisha: (sighs) Okay. Naturally, help Pike rebuild Vasselheim in the most immediate of circumstances. Eventually retire to Zephra. Go be the actual leader of my people. Continue to get in any type of frays that these people invite me on as it reminds me of the good old days and keeps my promise to protect this realm any time this realm needs protecting. And I find Kerrick at some point. Seek out Kerrick. Make sure he's okay. Reconnect with him, have coffee, you know.
Matt: Yeah. He's a quick jaunt from Zephra, thankfully. Westruun's not that far. That's one of the closer large cities outside of Stillben.
Marisha: Perfect. We're weekend buddies.
Matt: (laughs)
Marisha: We go to wine country. And then I work on the propagated sprig from the Sun Tree and continue to build it out, hopefully on the ley lines of the planet, and I take the feather that Pike gave me from Vax and I embed it into the trunk of the tree as well as any other relics from the Raven Queen I can find. Care for ravens as much as I can.
Matt: There is an uptick of ravens in the space of Zephra as well. Not many, but more than there would be, which is usually zero.
Marisha: And from the branch of the Sun Tree create my own raven tree of the Ashari. Take a long, long, long, long, long time before I maybe date again. Maybe. But eventually, hopefully, after a long, long, long, long, long time sunset into the tree and become a part of this realm.
Matt: That's a ways off for you, Ms. Archdruid.
Marisha: Ways off.
Matt: But you begin those preparations.
Marisha: But that's the plan.
Matt: Okay. Well you, Keyleth, who many only once saw the naive druid girl have a level of respect now that's carried with that mantle that you hold. And the council of Tal'Dorei occasionally calls upon your wisdom and guidance. The alliance between the civilised and the natured world of the lands irrevocably in Tal'Dorei bound to you at this point, between you and the earth Ashari who reside up in the Cliffkeep. Between occasional jaunts to Emon and Whitestone, you find renewed joy in the protection of the people there. One cold Cuersaar the 13th, the tenth month of the year, the cool summer dusk day closes and you emerge from the quarters to find that the winds come and blow through your hair. You step out to the sound of children laughing as a dozen Ashari kids, elf, dwarf, orc, many bloods and creeds rush past as they play. It's a familiar sound. It's a happy sound. You glance over at this village you're protecting and the people that truly look up to you as their leader, both not just from a might source but as a guide. And you look to them to teach you things every day as well. Looking past as the sun begins to set, you see Korrin standing by the cherry blossom at the edge of the cliff near the amphitheatre where you had your ceremony. In pinks and oranges and purples, the sunset takes the sky. As you approach, he still looks out. He's older, not too much older but older. As he notices you approach, he looks over. "In all my years, not a day passes where awe does not strike me at the beauty of this world." He looks over towards the sunset. "Don't ever lose the memory of every face whose strength helped you keep this light from fading. Every single face."
Marisha: I don't think it's the faces that keep this light from fading. I think it is what it is. We're lucky to experience it, a few are lucky to think it's beautiful. You taught me that. I don't have to appreciate this. Especially not after what I've seen. But I do.
Matt: "You need to."
Marisha: Only because of what I've seen.
Matt: And you see a bit of heartbreak but he nods his head and reaches out and takes you in, holds you there on the cliff side, the winds just being kept at bay. "I'm proud of you."
Marisha: Thank you. It's all I ever wanted. It's weird, once you reach a life goal and then realize you have the rest of your life. I guess I just find new goals. Sometimes it's hard being a prodigy because then you just grow up to be a regular adult.
Matt: He pulls you in tighter. "You'll always be my girl. My little Keyleth."
Marisha: Thanks, Dad.
Matt: "I love you."
Marisha: I love you.
Matt: (sighs) "Anyway, I should get to seeing if dinner preparations are being made. Looks to be a cold night." He tugs your hand and walks back, leaves you there on the cliff side looking out. As the sunlight slowly blinks away over the horizon, leaving you with the purples and blues of the night sky as the stars begin to glitter up, you can hear a raven caw catch your ear as you glance up into the branches of the cherry blossom tree. There's just one raven.
Marisha: Blow a kiss.
Matt: Flies down, lands on your shoulder. It's a bigger raven than any you've seen before. You've not seen this raven around.
Marisha: Little scratch.
Matt: It leans into it. And every day that raven comes to visit. And that's where we're going to close the campaign.
Sam: What a nice story.
Laura: Wow.
Travis: Let's do it again. (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Matt: Oh, wow. When this chapter closes, a whole new one, a whole new one opens very soon. (sighs) We'll be back in the new year with a new story to tell and in the meantime we'll be playing games here and mixing it up. Being silly. A few other faces are going to take up the storytelling mantle here. Me and Marisha have a wedding in a little over a week.
Marisha: Oh god. I had to get past this emotional chapter so I could get through the next one. (laughter)
Matt: But here we are at the end of this near-five-year journey for us and near-three-year journey with all of you and I just want to appreciate having, honestly, some of the best friends and players I could ever hope for to come along on this journey, to trust me enough to build this with you and to give back so much more than I could have ever hoped.
Liam: Thank you, Matt.
Laura: Thank you.
Marisha: Best DM ever.
Matt: You guys make it all easy and worthwhile.
Laura: Oh fuck.
Matt: Love you guys.
Laura: Shit. Yay!
Matt: And love you guys, each and every one of you out there who've come with us on this journey; new, old, for just a bit, or the entire length, some of you multiple times. Thank you for joining in on whatever this weird little magical, curious experience has, and will continue to be. Promise me you'll be good.
Marisha: We'll be back.
Laura: Yeah, we'll be back.
Liam: We might look a little different, but we're still going to be here.
Matt: Yep!
Laura: That was a really pretty sendoff, Matt. Thank you.
Marisha: That was beautiful.
Sam: Thanks, Matt. That was really nice.
Matt: Love you, guys.
Laura: Love you, Matthew.
Matt: Love you, guys. Have a wonderful night. Rest well. And is it Thursday yet?

[END OF EPISODE]