The following lines contains multiple episode transcripts of a Dungeons and Dragons game played by a group of players. Each episode transcript is delimited by [START OF EPISODE] and [END OF EPISODE]. The transcripts are followed by a question about the game statistics. Answer the question based on the transcripts. Do not try to guess, estimate or approximate the result. Do not ask the user for clarification or follow-up. Do step-by-step reasoning if needed. Return the final answer in \boxed{{}}. 

The following lines contain the mapping between player names and character names.
Matt plays the character DM.
Laura plays the character Vex'ahlia.
Travis plays the character Grog.
Marisha plays the character Keyleth.
Orion plays the character Tiberius.
Taliesin plays the character Percy.
Liam plays the character Vax'ildan.
Sam plays the character Taryon.
Ashley plays the character Pike.
Felicia plays the character Lyra.
Mary plays the character Zahra.
Wil plays the character Thorbir.
Will plays the character Kashaw.
Kit plays the character Lillith.
Jason plays the character Garthok.
Chris hardwick plays the character Gern.
Chris perkins plays the character Shale.
Patrick plays the character Kerrek.
Noelle plays the character Tova.
Jon plays the character Lionel.
Darin plays the character Sprigg.
Joe plays the character Arkhan.

Use this mapping when answering the questions below.

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone, to the next episode of Critical Role! This week, we have a full party. We'll be continuing just after the climactic battle with the twisted beholder, K'varn. We're going to go ahead and play a couple of videos here while we're waiting for the rest of the party members to settle in, so we'll be back here in just a few minutes. Sit tight and we'll get this party started. We have some fun announcements, some cool gifts that came in we'll be opening towards the end of the session today, but we'll go into those details shortly, so see you in a little bit. [dramatic music]
Travis: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (chuckle) (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and (chuckle) shiny things! Also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this-- well, this terrified little thing. And his disobedience cost him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die, exiled from his herd. It was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for lady favors. Also ale!
Marisha: A first impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. (chuckle) Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder) Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally! (soft chuckle) Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader to be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself, not knowing when, or if, she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays on repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attentions to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gunshot)
Ashley: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream: a dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal though divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were the best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time, Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. (roar, crunch) After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Sam: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter and joined Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he learned the ways of the world and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down, Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood, unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia. From a politically respected family, at the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months, I would frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later, I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to things sometimes. I've also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite friendly for a dragonborn!
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Syngorn. But their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didn't last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. (roar) With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life's challenges in his own particular way, often by side-stepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn't enough, (knife scraping) the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don't fully accept her. Born of a human mother and an elven father who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of ten when the two were taken from their mother and brought to live in Syngorn, the isolated elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind, and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods; she preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear-- her own stolen Trinket-- to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also, he is adorable, and gives expert massages. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello, guys! Welcome back. Thank you for your patience. We have the whole group, finally seem to have defeated the horrible atrocity that is 13th-level Los Angeles traffic. (cheering)
Zac: What's up, internet? I've got a quick announcement.
Matt: Yes.
Zac: Guys, we have a big giveaway today, when we get to 3,300 subscribers. I think we're 50 away or around 48, something like that. When we get to 3,300, we're giving away a dice box, a signed t-shirt, a starter set, and a signed Player's Handbook all in one box for a lucky winner, so if you guys get those subscribers rolling in, that's what helps pay for this show and pay for the entire channel as a whole, so get on that! And we wanted to say thank you to Aaron's Books in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania for sending us this stuff to give away to you guys. (cheering)
Matt: Seriously guys, seriously, that was so cool of you to send that out there, and we want to say, happy sixth graduation, Aaron, congrats to you, well done. (cheering)
Zac: Aaron's a little young to be running a bookstore. That's all I have to say.
Matt: I consider that a very fine entrepreneurial position. You're getting started young, good man.
Zac: So guys, enjoy the game.
Matt: Thank you so much, and thank you again, Aaron and Aaron's books. That's awesome, guys.
Travis: Who was that strange masked man just now?
Matt: I don't know, it's so weird. Okay, so a couple quick things. First off, thank you guys for coming back and watching. Last week we had a few members away, so we had a fun little mini-game with a few folks, some who had played before, some who hadn't, and it turned out very interestingly. I hope my DM's tips were helpful for some folks out there. There's been some great feedback, and hopefully we'll do more things like that in the future for off-days. So, thanks to you. Welcome back, we're getting back into the main story line. Couple other quick things I wanted to mention: first off a big shout-out, birthday shout-out to Kit Buss, our fantastic artist for the show. (cheering)
Travis: Happy Birthday, Kit!
Orion: We love you, Kit.
Ashley: Happy birthday!
Matt: She's awesome, she's amazing, and I've seen a couple little previews of the next piece of art she's been working on and it looks pretty awesome. I think you guys are going to dig it. So she's not done, when she's finished drinking her birthday shots, then I think we'll hopefully see that soon. (laughs) Awesome, thank you so much, Kit!
Marisha: Yes, shots first, then draw.
Matt: Exactly, it's priorities! Also, anyone have any announcements they want to mention before we start the game? Any upcoming stuff?
Travis: The Justice League thing!
Matt: That's true, yeah! DC Kids on Youtube just released their new Super Friends animated series that both me and Travis are in.
Orion: Who are you? Who do you guys play?
Matt: Well, you play Lex Luthor.
Travis: Lex Luthor, and you play Superman.
Orion: Son of a bitch!
Sam: Interesting choice.
Taliesin: You can feel the tension.
Matt: It's a really, really cute show, it's a lot of fun, it's very much a playback to the classic Super Friends cartoon, that kind of comedic atmosphere. You should check it out.
Sam: You're Superman?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: (Clarota voice) Does he talk like this?
Matt: Yeah, it gets a little weird around episode three. I don't think DC's happy with how we treated the license for that one. (laughter)
Travis: That's the best.
Matt: That's every character I do now. Matthew Mercer, reading for Superman: (croaking noise) Also, if anyone else has any other announcements they want to mention?
Marisha: Yeah!
Orion: Yeah!
Marisha: You go first.
Orion: Whatchamacallit, a few weeks ago me and Matthew wore these really cool shirts with the vermilion bird from Rubrum, which is in Type-0, the Final Fantasy that we're both in! That shirt was made from Greven, g-r-e-v-e-n, at Redbubble, and we wanted to thank him for those shirts, along with this awesome Final Fantasy shirt, made by August8913, where she did this super cool, it says Nine on the back, his says Trey. Thank you guys, for the really cool shirts.
Travis: Aw, yeah! Jumped on the jam, boogie-woogie jam-slam.
Marisha: I'm going to be at Lock and Load this weekend in Seattle, which is the War Machine Hordes con for Privateer Press.
Travis: Really?
Marisha: Yeah! It's awesome, I'm going to be dressed up in my Scar costume. It's going to be awesome, I'm going to be doing a big transformation with Espionage. Yeah, and we're actually going to be pushing the stream; they're going to be streaming it and Geek&Sundry is going to be hosting the Lock and Load stream, so tune in and watch me prance around at Lock and Load in Seattle.
Taliesin: Those are impressive shoes to prance in, by the way.
Marisha: Yeah, some intense stripper heels, yeah.
Orion: Who'd you play?
Matt: Kreoss.
Orion: You were Kreoss, by the way, War Machine Tactics, Matthew Mercer is Kreoss.
Matt: Kreoss, Asphyxius, couple other guys.
Orion: Yeah, yeah, check it out.
Matt: It's fun, it's on Steam.
Liam: Asphyxius?
Matt: Asphysius is the character's name, lich lord Asphyxius, he's bad in town.
Marisha: I'm Haley and Deneghra and Fiora.
Laura: We're going to be at MetroCon next weekend.
Matt: Awesome! MetroCon next weekend.
Travis: (sings) In Tampa.
Laura: (sings) In Tampa, Florida.
Travis: Tampa, Florida.
Matt: Okay. Real fast, before we get to that, I will be, for those who are near--
Marisha: You already did it?
Travis: How many did we have to go?
Zac: 50.
Laura: Ridiculous.
Marisha: 50 subscribers.
Matt: Well, we already hit the mark!
Marisha: Don't we normally hit that in, like, a show?
Matt: That works, you guys are amazing!
Ashley: Yes, that's awesome!
Orion: Thank you, everyone!
Matt: I'll finish my last announcement, then we'll go to that.
Zac: I'm going to go ahead and start the giveaway.
Matt: Go, start the giveaway!
Travis: When is the next giveaway?
Zac: We're going to do-- Those pictures already exist, they shared them with the chatroom. Yeah, so we're going to do this. We're going to do a whole other set of these when we get to the next 50.
Marisha: Oh, a whole other set? There's another one?
Zac: Technically, we have four sets.
Liam: See you in five minutes.
Matt: So we have four sets of those to give away. Every 50 subscribers another set goes out, guys, so that's amazing.
Orion: I could have Sam fart on this for you, if you want.
Sam: Again? Already done, friend, already done.
Matt: Whoa. Okay, there we go. (laughs)
Travis: The world just ended.
Matt: That was close. I just rolled a one on my camera save. Final announcement before we get to the game, for those who are-- (shushing noises)
Orion: Sorry. Okay.
Matt: Can't all talk at once. Also, this weekend I'll be in Sandusky, Ohio, at Colossal Con along with such great folks as Johnny Yong Bosch, Steve Blum, other fun greats--
Travis: Is that at the water park?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Son of a bitch.
Matt: (laughs) Yeah, because water parks are totally sanitary. Hot tub's going to be great.
Travis: The dysentery afterwards is--
Zac: Flyingsquid63 is the winner.
All: Flyingsquid63!
Matt: You are the winner of the first set. Congratulations, that's awesome.
Ashley: It's an awesome name.
Marisha: Oh look, and it's green. You're winning green speckled dice, like squid colors.
Matt: There you go, that worked out well, very Cthulhu-ian.
Marisha: I'm justifying. Shut up, Liam! (laughter)
Matt: Well awesome, so we hit our next 50, we'll do another giveaway, we have three more of those packages to give out, guys, so hopefully keep that up. All right, anything else or should we get back into the chaos?
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: I'm scared!
Matt: You should be.
Ashley: I really am.
Sam: We beat the bad guy! It's fine, it's all fine.
Matt: Where we left off.
Orion: I forgot to ask you something before the game, it's fine.
Matt: It's okay. The party, as they ventured deep into the Underdark beneath the Cliffkeep Mountains in the dwarven city of Kraghammer, they sought and discovered Lady Kima of Vord, a folk hero, a paladin of Bahamut who had been captured and tortured by the duergar that lived beneath it. After saving her, they discovered that there was an even deeper, darker, more dangerous evil brewing beneath the surface. There was an illithid, or mind flayer, city of Yug'voril deeper within these cavern structures, and currently the Elder Brain of the colony was under the control of an entity known as K'Varn, they came to find out was a self-mutilated and advanced beholder, who had come into contact with a dark artifact known as the Horn of Orcus that was actually gifted many many, many many, like hundreds of years ago by the god of undeath himself, Orcus, to one of his avatars. Somehow it found its way to this beholder, and gave it enough power to where it gained complete dominion over this colony and these caverns as a whole. The party fought their way through and made a few allies, including the ousted mind flayer, Clarota, seeking to return to his colony, has been fighting alongside them, as well as Lady Kima, the paladin they came to save. Upon finding their way into the final cavern, they used their magic carpet to completely go around the giant city of Yug'Voril, perch on top of the temple in the center of the city, and using a polymorphed fomorian giant (laughs), cascading down hundreds upon hundreds of feet, through the glass structure on top, managed to break their way into the temple, after which a very dangerous battle with K'Varn the beholder took place. A number of very close calls. I posted the stats for them after the fight, if any of you guys got a chance to see it. They made saving throws where it counted, or we'd have a lot more party members that'd be permanently dead. But they managed to take him out; using Tiberius's Telekinesis, they tore the horn from its forehead and the beholder fell to the ground, unmoving and finally killed, as opposed to its undead form, and that's where we begin. As you guys all sit there looking around yourselves, adrenaline still pumping in your ears, the flow of blood.
Orion: Pike--
Ashley: That's me! What do you need?
Orion: Do you have spell of Restoration, the thing that can reverse stone?
Ashley: Yes, I do.
Orion: Clarota, what do you suggest we do? Do we stay, do we leave, or do we-- what do you? There are hundreds upon thousands of illithid rushing at us right now, and they don't like me very much, by the way--
Laura: We should get out of here!
Matt: At which point, Clarota turns to you and says, "You. Bring her." Points to Kima, who is still frozen in stone mid-wielding her maul.
Ashley: To carry her?
Matt: "Stay but a moment; I will talk to them."
Sam: Talk to the hive.
Orion: Very good. Wait, do you want her un-stoned, or still stoned?
Marisha: Well, hang on. Maybe before we unstone Kima, we talk about what we should do with the Horn.
Orion: This is exactly what has to do with the Horn. Is there any way, Pike, could you perhaps half-cast it and hold the spell, don't quite undo her legs from stone, I don't want her to be mobile. I want to ask her--
Ashley: I don't know if I--
Sam: If I may, very quickly, are you with us, Tiberius?
Orion: We will discuss that when we get out of here.
Sam: Because you disappeared for like, the whole fight. Are you with us?
Orion: I am with you.
Sam: Are you going to disappear again?
Orion: To be fair, Scanlan, I never disappeared to begin with!
Sam: Well, you weren't there when we needed you the most. You were out doing God-knows-what.
Orion: Quite the contrary. If it wasn't for me, you'd still be fighting that damn thing.
Sam: What on earth are you talking about?
Orion: Silence. (laughter)
Sam: Dispel Magic. Yes, I did.
Orion: Counterspell.
Sam: Do I have a will save?
Orion: No, you're done, you're quiet.
Matt: That low enough level? No, unfortunately.
Orion: The idea, which I will share-- we don't have time to do that--
Sam: I turn him into a goat.
Orion: He has to say that, it doesn't work.
Matt: I know that. (laughter)
Orion: So the idea is, Pike, if we ask her why she wants the horn, if there is any other reason but to destroy it, we have to--
Sam: Okay, then I'll Banish him.
Laura: (gasps)
Ashley: How about-- well, hold on.
Taliesin: He can't stop it, he can't talk!
Matt: Also requires verbal casting.
Sam: I have to touch him, right?
Matt: You also have to be able to speak.
Sam: Fuck!
Matt: So while you're talking to them, Scanlan is tapping you and mouthing words angrily.
Orion: The idea is, if she doesn't want to destroy it, I say there's something awful, and Keyleth, I believe you want to destroy it, yes?
Marisha: Well, yes, I mean why does she want to take it back up to the surface if it's that terrible?
Orion: I know this is, did you say Orcus, is that his name?
Matt: Orcus, yes.
Orion: This thing is no good at all.
Marisha: Why don't we just throw it in some lava?
Orion: Where is some lava? I would much like to do that.
Marisha: Well, we're around lava, right?
Travis: We were.
Laura: We're not around lava now.
Taliesin: It's a thing of earth. Perhaps taking it to the surface is necessary to destroy it. Why don't we have a conversation with her?
Orion: But she wanted to take it back to Emon. That is not appropriate, we need to destroy this.
Taliesin: Let's get some information first.
Orion: I dispel Silence.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Let's get some information, let's figure out--
Sam: Oh hi, hi there.
Orion: Sorry, I just wanted to get the point across.
Ashley: I can un-stone her.
Taliesin: We'll un-stone her, it's not like she can take it from us.
Ashley: That's my last 5th-level spell, so we might need to rest.
Taliesin: If something horrible happens, we're going to run anyway at this point.
Matt: I assume you guys have come down in here then.
Orion: I'm staying up, can I not--
Sam: Then how did we have this whole conversation?
Orion: Oh, then I'd be down there.
Laura: I was planning on staying up. I'm not leaving Trinket up there.
Matt: Okay. Good.
Taliesin: Why don't we find out what happens next? And if we have to, you can teleport us out of here, correct?
Orion: Oh, I have a wonderful escape plan.
Marisha: Okay, so Clarota, how much time do we have before something happens next?
Matt: As you say that, Clarota turns, and the two stone doorways on each side of the temple shift open and you notice three mind flayers glide in from the side of the room.
Laura: I notch my arrow.
Orion: No, no! Stop, no don't. It's fine, it's fine, it's fine.
Matt: Two small, bi-pedal, brain-like creatures.
All: No! No.
Matt: At which point, Clarota puts his hands up like this.
Travis: I'm grappled, so.
Matt: Yeah, you're still being held back, but you can try to break from the grapple if you want to roll an athletics check.
Travis: (laughs) I would like to, just because these things ate my fucking mind away. Seven.
Matt: Nope, you're still held against the bars.
Taliesin: You're like an extra in Big Trouble in Little China.
Travis: Oh, it's a 12! I looked at acrobatics.
Matt: Still not enough, unfortunately.
Ashley: Wait, but I cast-- nope, never mind! Keep going!
Matt: Okay. As they begin to move in, and are hovering forward, looking around the room, taking in the scenery, but they're all focused toward the center, they're all just moving towards the Elder Brain. And they make their way up towards it, looking very intent and very frightened at the prospect of what maybe has happened in this room. As they all approach, you can see that low, dull, kind of purplish glow of the Elder Brain is still pumping, but slowly brighter and brighter, almost like it's coming to more life. You can hear the cage rattling of the various entities that are still inside, like the one that's still grappling Grog off to the side. The horn of Orcus, which is still being held aloft by your Telekinesis spell, is just hovering through the air, slowly rotating on its own, little strips of K'Varn's flesh still freshly tumbling from the side.
Orion: And it's at the halfway point between where she is and where I'm standing.
Matt: So right here?
Orion: Yeah, right there.
Matt: Not this big, of course.
Orion: It's really heavy, guys!
Matt: As they all move towards the center, Clarota, with his hands up, turns around, pulls back the hood, and steps towards the other mind flayers, hands stretched out, moving up to the point here.
Ashley: (whispers) Can you instill an inspiration?
Sam: Inspire him? I think he's pretty good on his own.
Orion: "Don't do anything." I'm saying this on the ears.
Matt: The three illithid look over and notice Clarota, and there's a good 20 or 30 seconds of silence as they just look at each other. At which point, Clarota kind of turns around to the rest of the group and looks at them, looks at all of you and lowers his head a little bit as the mind flayers move in towards Clarota, one reaches over and pulls the cap from the back of his head, removes it, at which point Clarota raises up, and if you think you've ever seen an entity with tentacles for a mouth smile, the creases in his awful, rubbery, fleshy face almost give a look of joy, of rediscovered connection, and he looks out to the rest of you and bows a head for a second. I need Grog, Scanlan, Tiberius, Vax, and Pike to all make--
Travis: Tiberius, if he fucks us.
Sam: I think he's about to.
Matt: Intelligence saving throws.
Travis: Oh, I'm grappled! I'm raging, but. Fuck yes! Intelligence saving throws?
Matt: Intelligence saving throws.
Travis: Thank god I rolled high.
Orion: Natural 20.
Travis: (laughs) I get a negative two modifier, that's such bullshit. (laughter)
Matt: Not very wise, there, Grog.
Travis: 17.
Sam: Is this a charm?
Matt: This would be-- no, it would not be.
Marisha: So wait, am I still an elemental? Is that the deal?
Orion: It's 23.
Matt: 23, 20. Scanlan?
Sam: 12.
Matt: 12. Pike?
Laura: She needs better dice.
Ashley: I rolled a six.
Matt: Okay. Grog?
Ashley: Six total. (laughs)
Travis: Oh. 17.
Matt: Okay! So. Currently, all the mind flayers at once, including Clarota, angrily lash out with a Mind Blast. You feel your brains all of a sudden fill with searing, horrible pain. Some of you manage to shrug it off, but the rest of you find your bodies locking in place. All right, everyone who failed their save, which would be-- Keyleth, what'd you roll?
Marisha: You didn't have me roll.
Matt: Oh, you need to roll as well, sorry, you're in the blast there. You're still an earth elemental.
Marisha: I thought I was immune to this kind of stuff. (groans) What do I-- not good.
Matt: Not good? All right, that'll be 22 points of psychic damage to Grog, to Pike.
Travis: I passed, right?
Matt: No, you passed this. You're fine.
Laura: Teleport us out of here!
Orion: It doesn't work like that. It's what I was trying to say earlier!
Matt: Scanlan, you are currently stunned, you are actually unable to physically move. Pike, as well. The rest of you manage to resist the Mind Blast, but at this point in time you can now see that this crew, including Clarota, now reconnected with its people, your purpose serving its end, you're about to be swarmed by the rest of the entire city.
Travis: Son of a bitch, taint, fuck!
Matt: Let's roll initiative, guys.
Marisha: We should've gotten out of here!
Travis: I never trusted that Magneto motherfucker! Fuck.
Matt: All right, so. 25 to 20?
Laura: 21.
Marisha: 21, as well.
Matt: Nice. 20 to 15?
Orion: 19.
Taliesin: 17.
Ashley: 16.
Matt: All right, 15 to ten?
Liam: 14.
Sam: 13.
Matt: All right, Grog?
Travis: Eight. Against mind flayers. We're fucking fighting brains and mind flayers again.
Laura: We're all going to die.
Marisha: Okay, wait, you guys run.
Matt: Vex, you're up first.
Marisha: I can start bringing down the palace.
Laura: I'm stuck at the top. Until we can run, we're stuck, because there's only one flying carpet.
Travis: Tiberius has got something for us, right?
Laura: I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on the Elder Brain and shoot Hail of Thorns into the Elder Brain.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Yes! I like that idea!
Marisha: I'm going to start bringing down the temple! Are we okay with that?
Travis: We're still in it.
Orion: Not while we're still in it.
Marisha: Well, I mean it'll take some time, I'm sure.
Travis: Or it could happen really quick.
Matt: As you guys do notice-- you guys are beginning to see what looks like shadows seemingly coming out from the outside, and you hear what seems to be slight cackling of things sort of in the doorways. So you're shooting Hail of Thorns down into the Elder Brain? Go ahead and roll for the attack.
Laura: 19?
Matt: 19 will hit, yes.
Sam: We're going to be dead in ten minutes.
Matt: What, the teleportation one?
Orion: We'll talk about it later. Plan B, it's ten minutes.
Matt: One minute.
Orion: Sure!
Matt: Pretty sure it's one minute
Marisha: Wait, does this mean you can go and we'll distract?
Orion: No, don't look at it! You said one minute, that's the DM, DM is god.
Laura: Do I roll regular damage, plus the Hail of Thorns?
Matt: I thought it was.
Travis: If someone asks you if you're a god--
All: You say yes.
Travis: You shouldn't look! You shouldn't waste your time.
Matt: Spellcasting time  one minute.
Orion: Oh, yes, I'm so glad I'm wrong.
Laura: 39 on the first hit.
Orion: How many of us are down there?
Ashley: 39?! Yes!
Marisha: All of us except for Laura and Trinket.
Taliesin: And I'm on the carpet, so I can head that direction.
Laura: And then 18 for the second.
Matt: Okay, so you release the first Hail of Thorns. The arrow shatters into a whole--
Laura: And anything within five feet takes damage, as well.
Matt: That'll be all four of them. How much damage do they take?
Laura: They take the same amount unless they make--
Matt: Unless they make a what? Do they have a saving throw against it?
Laura: Oh wait. Yeah. They take half damage on a saving throw.
Matt: Okay. Against what? So two of them make it, two of them don't.
Marisha: Look, look, I do double damage to objects and structures. That's the thing, I'm really good at tearing shit down.
Orion: Now, sometimes fighting isn't the right thing to do!
Marisha: That's why I'm not talking about fighting, I'm talking about collapsing buildings!
Matt: All right, so Clarota and the one nearest to it get behind a pillar for a second and manage to reduce the damage a bit, but the other two are completely pierced all over their bodies where shattered pieces of these kind of jagged thorn arrows exploded all over them and the Elder Brain. The pulsing begins to-- you hear this shrieking in your mind, like the actual presence of the Elder Brain is starting to yell out in pain. You feel it's hardy but hurting. I mean, it's very hefty, it's a large chunk of matter, so god knows how long it would take to take that one down, but it's definitely-- (laughs) it hurt. It's not happy with that. Do you want to move at all or do you want to stay where you are?
Laura: I want to do my second attack.
Matt: Yeah, that's right!
Laura: Yeah. 15?
Matt: 15 does not hit, unfortunately. You actually fire down and it hits the stonework and the arrow splinters against it. Stay where you are?
Laura: I don't know what else to do. I'm stuck up at the top.
Matt: Jump? What could possibly go wrong! Okay, that's the end of your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Sam: Keyleth!
Marisha: I think my best use-- I agree we need to get out of here, but I'm going to--
Matt: You have shadows moving in from the two open doorways on each side right now.
Marisha: What, so the Elder Brain-- is this a wooden well, or a stone well? What is this?
Matt: Essentially it's a giant stone platform that houses the Elder Brain at the center.
Marisha: Here's what I can do. I can start breaking the well, or I can start blocking entrances. I can start pulling down--
Travis: That one, the second one.
Taliesin: The second one.
Marisha: The second one?
Travis: The second one, close the doorway.
Marisha: All right. Who's coming in from where?
Matt: This is one doorway. That's the other.
Travis: I thought he said it was big.
Marisha: All right, I am going to-- I can make it there, right? That's 35 feet?
Matt: That-- ooh, that's maybe not enough. Yeah no, that's longer than 35 feet.
Laura: Just bull rush and tear down the well.
Travis: Yeah, do it. Fuck it, do what you want to do.
Matt: What do you want to do?
Marisha: All right, all right!
Matt: Just letting you know, just putting this into perspective, here: you're fighting four illithid in the room. You have a city swarming on you right now.
Laura: We need to get out! Or take down the Elder Brain.
Marisha: All right. I am taking down the doors.
Matt: Okay, what are you doing? Are you casting a spell?
Marisha: No, I'm going to start-- can I bull rush, not necessarily right next to the door but like right here, and I'm going to elemental-slam into the wall and siege monster this.
Matt: What's the movement speed of the earth elemental?
Marisha: 35 feet.
Matt: 35 feet? As it's still able to move through stone as well?
Marisha: Yeah! Well, actually, no. When I move through stone I think I can move 60 feet!
Matt: Okay, it is a thick floor. You actually shift into the stonework of the flooring itself and coast through, popping up right out there. That'll get you right at the doorway. You can see there is a slow spiraling incline, like a small-- like an inclined pathway that you can see four illithid making their way up right now, with some large looming stomping sounds coming up behind them.
Marisha: Perfect! So I materialize, using my girth to take up the door, and then I just go (deep voice) boom! And start bringing it down.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make your slam attack or attacks, depending on how many--
Marisha: Slam, I guess.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Get it, Keyleth. (cheering)
Marisha: 26!
Matt: 26, okay go ahead and roll damage on that. Since you are an earth elemental, you do extra siege damage against structures, don't you?
Marisha: Correct. Double damage. So (laughs) okay. So does full damage, plus five, so that's 21-- 42 points of damage.
Ashley: Yes!
Matt: 42 points of damage. So the stone structure, which is pretty rigid and this is an old, old structure; the strange, weird, non-Euclidean design of it has a slight warbling feel to it. You take both of your earth elemental fists and slam them into the side. As you do, the structure gives way and a good 30 feet or so crumbles down around you. You can feel the stones raining onto you. Because of your proximity, you take four points of impact damage.
Marisha: I like it! It feels good! This is what I bathe in!
Matt: This entire doorway is ruined, and there's a good 15-foot pile of stonework now blocking that entranceway.
Marisha: 15-foot pile?
Matt: Yeah. But there's a hole above it, where the stone fell through. So there is about 50 feet up a section of the wall that is collapsed down.
Marisha: Whatever, it'll make it harder. Right, that's my turn.
Matt: Okay, do recall that mind flayers do levitate.
Travis: Aw. (groans) God! Maybe not now, they don't?
Matt: All right, Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: Yeah, okay--
Matt: You can also see forms swarming through the other doorway over there.
Laura: Teleport us!
Orion: This isn't good.
Laura: Fly us! Get us out.
Orion: How far? Scanlan's only like a foot away from me, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: I'm right next to him!
Matt: Yep.
Orion: Oh!
Travis: Beam us out, Scotty.
Orion: Shit. Okay. I cast Fly on myself.
Sam: (laughs) Bye, Tiberius! (laughter)
Orion: I redact that, actually. Is it possible-- I'm at least standing next to him, right?
Matt: You are.
Orion: I don't have to use a move action right now. I can, like, look at him.
Sam: I leap!
Orion: Okay, can I give him-- can I take off my Ioun Stone as an action, and swap his crown?
Matt: No, I'm pretty sure-- if the item says "attunement" on it, you have to spend a short rest attuning yourself with the weapon. If either of them does.
Orion: But he didn't. He hasn't attuned himself to the thing yet.
Sam: To what?
Matt: Right, but your Ioun stone-- you mean take it from him?
Orion: Yeah!
Matt: You would have to attune it to yourself in order to use it.
Orion: How long does it take?
Matt: It takes a short rest.
Orion: Shit! Okay, that changes everything in a very bad way.
Matt: What are you doing? The other doorway isn't blocked, you have mind flayers running in, you have probably more and more swarming from underneath the temple, probably over at some point, from what you've seen of the temple structure.
Orion: Okay, so I'm going to attempt to crush the Horn. With a thousand pounds of pressure.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Because my Telekinesis is still going.
Matt: That's true.
Orion: I can't do anything else without dropping this thing because as soon as I do anything else, I drop the horn. So I have to do that first.
Matt: Okay, so you use your action, go ahead and roll for that, for the crushing of Telekinesis.
Travis: Oh god.
Orion: What am I adding?
Matt: You're adding your modifier, which I think is five.
Orion: Oh, 23.
Matt: As you focus intensely, you feel that the Horn itself-- the sheer force of the artifact is far too powerful for your meager magic to have any sort of effect on its physical structure.
Orion: I thought so.
Matt: As you focus your arcane intent on crushing it, you feel almost like the back of your brain begins to crawl with cold energy, and if you could hear-- if you could hear laughter come from something that is inanimate, you're hearing it coming from the Horn right now.
Travis: Fuck that horn.
Matt: That's your action.
Orion: I'm going to--
Laura: Float it into the Bag of Holding!
Orion: I'm going to maneuver around the chaos because I'm not within range of anybody to hurt me, right?
Matt: Not currently, no.
Orion: So I'm going to hop on the carpet.
Liam: This is all taking six seconds, by the way.
Matt: 30, that's as far as you can get.
Orion: Well, I can run.
Matt: You already used your action to Telekinesis.
Orion: Oh. That's stupid.
Matt: That's how it works.
Orion: "Hey, Percy!" (laughs) That's my turn, that's all I can do. And I still maintain the thing.
Matt: Okay. That brings us-- end of Tiberius's turn, to Percy.
Taliesin: I'm going to start flying straight up, and while I'm flying straight up, I'm going to take... two shots with the Pepperbox at the big brain.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll twice.
Taliesin: I'm going to use Sharpshooter. That's a 21? That's 21.
Matt: 21 does hit.
Taliesin: And should I do both hits?
Matt: Yeah, roll both.
Taliesin: Oh, and-- no, that's right, I don't critical at 19?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: No, I need a specialty. Damn it! And that hits, so both hit, and they're both with Sharpshooter, so that's nice. (sings) I haven't pulled my dice out yet. There we go.
Liam: Come on, gunslinger!
Taliesin: Oh, that's nice! 25 points of damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: And 17 points of damage.
Matt: All right, gotcha.
Taliesin: Oh, sorry. I forgot, sorry, four points of fire damage.
Matt: Okay, good. All right, so as you (gunshot) turn over the barrel of your weapon, fire again, the second one bursting into flame as it hits the top of the Elder Brain, you can see both bullets sink into the flesh. There's no impact; they just seem to be absorbed in by it. The flame one, you see a jet of flame go from the inside and the flesh of the actual large Elder Brain quivers for a moment. You hear another shrieking, angry pain growl in your minds just by the proximity of this entity. You don't see it doing too much to it, but it's definitely hurting it. That ends your turn?
Marisha: Things can hurt really bad and not do that much damage.
Matt: Clarota spins and comes up behind you--
Laura: Don't be a dick.
Travis: Remember our days watching Saved by the Bell together?
Matt: You are stunned currently, so it gets advantage on that. So that's 24. All right, so Clarota's tentacles wrap around your head-- (gasping)
Travis: Whose?
Matt: You immediately take 15 points of psychic damage and you are currently grappled.
Sam: And stunned.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: (sings) Grappled and stunned, so grappled and stunned!
Matt: All right, that comes to Pike! Pike, you're stunned currently, mind still reeling from the pain; go ahead and make an intelligence saving throw.
Ashley: Ugh, okay.
Travis: We're just trying to stay alive.
Ashley: I just rolled a one.
Matt: Your physical form is still unable to pull yourself out of that continuous psychic pain, you're like (groans) trying to just tear your mind out of it, unable to do so. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, I click my Boots of Haste and I'm going to-- where's the thingie, do we have a thingie here?
Ashley: What do you need?
Liam: The light.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: All right, great. How's this work? Like that. If I can run right between Pike and this little brain jerk right here, does that get me within five feet of Elder Brain if I'm there? I can't tell from the structure.
Matt: You can rush there, you would have to get up onto here.
Liam: Yeah, that's what I want to do, and then, I don't know. That's not my full double-movement, I don't know how that affects the number of attacks I have Hasted, but I just want to stab it as many times as I can, standing on top of this thing.
Matt: All right, got it.
Liam: Where's the meteorite die?
Orion: Fuck you, couch!
Liam: Using my poison dagger.
Travis: Prison shank that thing.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, I'm going to shiv him in his shank or shank him in his shiv, whichever is the more accurate phrase.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for attack twice.
Travis: Can you scream out "lobotomy" while you do it?
Matt: As a note, as you rush by, for an attack of opportunity, the intellect devourer does reach out and strike at you with its claws.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: Rolls a one. You just kick it off to the side, it rolls on its side, its brain matter (clunks) on the ground.
Liam: Do I get two or three attacks?
Matt: You get three if you use your bonus to attack.
Liam: First one misses. Second one is-- oh wait, the first was a 17, is that--
Laura: That doesn't miss.
Liam: Hit or miss, it's a brain, right, I'm standing--
Matt: Total 17? That would still-- it doesn't miss, but as you strike down for it, there's a psychic field that's defending it, and your blade is held at bay by the protective sphere.
Liam: Okay, then I'm using now dagger of venom is 26.
Matt: Okay, that does hit.
Liam: Okay, so that's four plus six is ten, because this isn't Sneak Attack or anything.
Matt: No.
Liam: That's ten plus a poison for a DC of 15?
Matt: Okay. It makes its saving throw. Rolled a 17.
Liam: So that was that, and then the third attack I'll go back to the keen dagger. 14.
Matt: 14. The second one strikes through, the poison tries to pulse through but once again it resists the impact; the third dagger comes down and before it even gets halfway towards, there's a blast of psychic energy from the inside of the containment unit that holds the Elder Brain that (boof) forces your hand back, the attack deflected entirely. That ends your turn. The other three illithids now go.
Ashley: I wish we had inspiration.
Orion: Isn't there a rope still hanging from there? Throw the damn rope!
Laura: You can climb it.
Liam: Yeah, I can probably get up 15 feet and hang there.
Travis: Yeah, I'm getting a massage right now.
Matt: This one's also going to turn around, reach forward, and its tentacles are going to attempt to wrap around Pike's head--
Travis: Don't you touch my friend.
Matt: That's going to be a 20?
Travis: A natural 20?
Matt: No, it's just 20. So Pike, you go ahead and take-- this'll be 15 points of psychic damage.
Liam: It was a good run, folks.
Marisha: What happened?
Laura: He rolled a 20.
Ashley: So he rolled a 20.
Matt: I rolled a total of 20. And you're stunned currently, so you take 15 points of psychic damage as you feel-- as you're trying to resist yourself, these cold tentacles wrap across the front of your field of vision, and you can feel this weird, toothy, pointy, biting sensation beginning to push towards the back of your skull. This one--
Ashley: That's it, that's all she wrote.
Matt: This one here is going to--
Laura: He's going to try to eat her brain!
Matt: Tiberius, that is a 15 versus AC.
Orion: Nope!
Matt: What's your AC?
Orion: 17, man!
Matt: 17, as you're rushing toward the magic carpet that just took off, yeah, you look over and the tentacles swing toward you, you duck just underneath and manage to avoid the attack. Now the two intellect devourers. One's going to go ahead and look up towards the magic carpet that's taking off and-- here we go. Oh, within ten feet? No, you're too far away. So instead it's going to go for you on top of the Elder Brain. I want you to go ahead and make an intelligence saving throw, Vax.
Liam: 20, natural 20.
Matt: Natural 20!
Sam: Needed that.
Laura: That's not to Matt, that's to the little brains.
Liam: The brains, the brains.
Marisha: Fuck you, little brains.
Matt: So you feel a similar blast of screaming energy, like you feel from the illithids, but it's more primal and more guttural. You manage to shrug it off in your mind and angrily look down at this weird, fleshy creature. The other one moves up and attempts to blast you again from the opposite side. Make another intelligence saving throw.
Liam: 19.
Matt: 19! Once again you feel from the back of your brain this like stunning impact and you shrug it off looking over this way.
Liam: (jeering) I'm smart! (laughter)
Matt: All right, that brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: I'm grappled and stunned.
Matt: Yeah, so go ahead and make your saving throw.
Travis: Come on, buddy. (cheering)
Orion: Boom!
Matt: You shrug off the stunned effect, you're currently grappled by the entity.
Laura: You're so smart!
Ashley: You're so smart!
Marisha: You're so smart!
Travis: Cardiac kid, come on now, here we go. Table's getting hot.
Liam: Aren't you inspired?
Matt: And then also make an intelligence saving throw.
Sam: Oh, Jesus. Because he's also got the things on me.
Liam: Just say 20.
Sam: Seven. (laughs) Plus two.
Liam: Big nine.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I said big nine.
Ashley: He rolled a 20, so that's gotta mean something.
Taliesin: I think a nine is a big six.
Marisha: The 20 carries over one, right? (laughter)
Travis: Residual?
Marisha: You take the one and you carry it over.
Travis: Natural 20 residual.
Liam: I personally can't wait until we roll new characters next show.
Laura: No.
Marisha: Shut up!
Matt: Unfortunately, you're still stunned.
Sam: Still stunned? Oh, so I got off--
Matt: You resisted the mind effect, but the tentacles on your head are now locking your brain in place, and your eyes are kind of rolling back in your head as you feel the illithid's mouth begin to push against the outside of your head. Grog?
Travis: I've got to break my grapple, right?
Matt: Yeah. Just go ahead and roll an athletics check.
Travis: One.
Matt: A natural one?
Sam: This guy.
Matt: A natural one; it rolled a four!
Orion: Plus your strength! Oh, it doesn't matter.
Taliesin: It doesn't matter.
Matt: Okay. So it's still holding you in place; you have your axe you picked up off the ground with your chain of returning; you can't physically move from your position as it's holding you there.
Travis: The axe is across the room, remember?
Matt: Well, no, you threw it over here and retrieved it at the end of the battle.
Travis: Well that's a good, that's a good plus.
Ashley: (frustrated noise)
Marisha: The fuck!
Matt: So what do you want to do?
Laura: You could attack with your chain.
Travis: I can attack with the chain?
Matt: You have your axe with your chain of returning, you just can't move, but you can still throw if you want to.
Orion: Oh, awesome.
Marisha: Can you chop the dude's arms off?
Travis: I have no-- it's holding me, I don't think I can be like--
Ashley: Maybe the guy that has him, his tentacles or whatever?
Travis: I was going to try and save you.
Ashley: Well. That's far.
Travis: Can I reach the illithid-- it's far?
Matt: Well, you can throw to either of them right now. They're both bent over gnome heads, they're bigger--
Travis: Where's Scanlan?
Ashley: Why the gnomes?
Matt: He's here, and that's Pike.
Ashley: Why the gnome hate?
Marisha: It's rare. It's a rare delicacy.
Matt: You guys were right there.
Travis: All right, I can't-- I'm going to try and throw it at the illithid that's on Scanlan.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll for an attack.
Ashley: Tasty gnome.
Liam: All the fans who implied that Matt went light on us the last game--
Travis: 22?
Matt: 22, definitely hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Okay, it's just one, two, three. Shit balls. 14.
Matt: 14 points of damage, all right. That one, you throw the axe, it slams into the shoulder of the illithid that's grabbing on to him. You see it look up at you angrily and a large portion of its chest is now gashed open and blood is pouring from the wound, but it's still holding tight right now. I think that's going to end your turn.
Travis: No, I'm done.
Matt: Do you want to pull your axe back?
Travis: Yes, I would like to.
Matt: Go ahead and you (grunts). Go ahead and make your check.
Travis: What do I, what the fuck do I roll, to the thing. What do I roll? A 12?
Matt: Yeah. A 20, you have to roll a d20, that was a d12.
Travis: Okay, good. (laughter)
Travis: 18.
Matt: So you pull on the chain of returning and it yanks the axes out of the wound and you catch it in midair, preparing for the next round.
Travis: (laughs) The 12 was a one. (laughter)
Matt: All right, first round of combat over. Let's roll better, guys. This is looking really dire. Vex, you're up.
Ashley: Get it.
Sam: Save everyone.
Matt: You're up at the top, you have a clear view of everyone.
Marisha: That's true, you're the only one with a bird's-eye view.
Sam: Just run. Save yourself.
Matt: As it is, these two illithids look kind of hurt, these two look really rough, this one looks really rough, both of these guys haven't been damaged yet but they have low hit points.
Sam: Save yourself, start a new race of people.
Laura: I am going to attack--
Sam: Hunter's Mark!
Laura: I'm going to put Hunter's Mark on-- oh, my brother just died.
Liam: I fainted.
Laura: On the one attacking Scanlan.
Taliesin: Not on Scanlan, on the one attacking Scanlan.
Matt: Oh right, sorry. (laughter)
Travis: What did he do?
Matt: In the confusion--
Sam: (shrieking) Help!
Orion: Friendly fire!
Ashley: That was amazing.
Laura: 14?
Matt: 14 unfortunately does--
Ashley: Plus! Plus War God's Blessing?
Matt: You're stunned.
Ashley: But can't I just do it just because?
Matt: No, unfortunately.
Marisha: Once, just this once, please?
Matt: Unfortunately, no.
Laura: But he's bent over and I've got a bird's-eye view of him.
Matt: You know what? He is grappling and he is right in the way, I'll go ahead and give you advantage on that attack. Roll again.
Laura: Yes! So I just roll again?
Matt: Roll again. Take whatever it is.
Laura: 22!
Matt: 22 will hit, okay. Because it is a stationary position, completely engulfing, and you have such a great view from above.
Laura: Right? 11 points of damage?
Matt: Okay. Did you roll your Hunter's Mark damage?
Laura: No, I did not.
Matt: Don't forget Hunter's Mark.
Laura: I won't, though. Three extra. That's for Hunter's Mark.
Ashley: 14 total?
Matt: Okay, gotcha. That's your first strike.
Laura: Okay. On my second one, should I just try to attack him again, kill him? All right, I'm going to kill him, try to hit him again. 18?
Matt: 18. Okay! So both strikes (whoosh). Go ahead and roll for damage.
Laura: 16 plus-- 19.
Matt: 19, okay. Both arrows (zoomf, zoomf), one embeds itself in the wound that Grog had left with the axe and you see the body tenses. Clarota stares up at you with this beaming angry look on his face; you realize, oh shit, Clarota's the one that's going after Scanlan. Your second arrow you bring down and release and it pierces the side of its face, gashing through and embedding itself in the chest. You can see now Clarota's looking really rough, but he's still holding taut. This horrible thought goes into your mind suddenly, a familiar voice saying, "You've all done your work. Now it's time to feast!"
Sam: (gasps) He turned on us!
Laura: I knew he was going to do that!
Sam: What? None of us knew that!
Laura: I totally knew he was going to do that.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn; Keyleth, you're up.
Travis: I don't trust Clarota. I don't trust Clarota. I don't trust Clarota. (laughter)
Ashley: Every week.
Travis: Every week!
Sam: You know who would help us right now?
Laura: Kima would help us, but she's stone.
Sam: Can we make her not stone?
Ashley: We can make her not stone, except we didn't get a chance to.
Liam: If we live, we're in store for so much I-told-you-so. (laughter)
Liam: It's a big if.
Sam: Maybe we should leave her. I don't want to deal with that.
Travis: Who's up?
Marisha: I can make, I'm going to-- aw, crap. I'm going to phase down, and I'm going to pop up, and I'm going to break the well that's holding the Elder Brain.
Ashley: Get it!
Matt: Okay, so you're going to pop up here? Over here?
Liam: No, not there!
Matt: Right there?
Marisha: Not where I might hurt Vax.
Sam: Well, that's anywhere.
Laura: Just do the other side!
Marisha: You might have to do, like, a flippy-poo off it.
Matt: So what are you doing on the well, you're just grabbing it?
Marisha: Can I? Can I flip?
Matt: No, it's embedded in the ground. What are you doing?
Marisha: Oh, okay, so I want to take and I want to just punch to crack a big side of it to help spill out the brains.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make a slam attack on the side
Marisha: Bust the side of it open.
Ashley: And then we'll stomp on him and make brain juice.
Marisha: I mean, it's an item, it's a stationary rock, so what do I add? Oh wait, I add-- so plus-- sorry, I'm not used to this. Plus eight, 16?
Matt: 16? You slam into the side of this; you're not attacking the brain, you're attacking the stonework. You can feel there is some psychic resistance, but because you're not attacking the brain directly, your fist slams into it, making purchase in the stone. Go ahead and roll damage against the stone.
Travis: Come on!
Matt: Double damage on this.
Ashley: Big damage!
Marisha: 20 damage.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: 20 damage. The side of the stonework crumples inward. Pieces of the stonework itself seem to be jutting in toward the Elder Brain, but it's stopped by some sort of psychic resistance, but the whole side here to here is now just open entirely, and you can see now the hole, the mass of-- there's probably hundreds of various illithid brains that have slowly congealed into one large brain structure as now you can see the underneath area. The liquid it kind of sits in is now pouring out, down the side of the structure.
Marisha: Hope they have flood insurance. (groans and laughter)
Travis: That was the worst Schwarzenegger action line ever. (Terminator voice) Hope they have flood insurance, ja.
Marisha: The Geico slayer!
Travis: Holy shit. That was amazing.
Marisha: Flo just got real, all right? Flo just got real.
Taliesin: That's no better, actually.
Marisha: From Progressive Flo? All the flow of the-- you know what, never mind.
Matt: So you only have the one slam attack? Earth elemental doesn't multi-attack?
Marisha: Yes, just the one. My slam attack is--
Matt: Right. Cool.
Marisha: Oh no, wait! I have multi-- earth elemental makes two slam attacks!
Matt: That's good to know. Go ahead and make another one.
Marisha: I could have done that last time?
Matt: Are you attacking the stonework still?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm just going to take the other chunk and punch it.
Matt: Okay. So we'll say you used some of your movement to move this way. By the way, guys, you can break up your movement. You can move, attack, then move if you want to.
Marisha: You can?
Matt: Yeah!
Travis: Unless Tickle-me-Elmo is holding you by the cage.
Marisha: It's cocked. 16 plus eight, so 22.
Matt: That'll definitely do it; go ahead. Is that total damage? Oh, that's the attack. Okay, go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: Ugh, four plus-- 18 damage.
Matt: 18's fine. So you break out the second half and now the entire side of it is open. All the fluid just spilled out the side and you get the sensation this is very frowned upon. (laughter)
Matt: That ends your turn. Tiberius, you're up!
Travis: A tentacle frown.
Orion: So I rush up, and Percy takes off?
Matt: As a note too, just so you guys are aware--
Taliesin: I didn't know you were coming to the carpet, sorry.
Laura: Oh no, we never closed the other door!
Matt: You start seeing a series of other entities slowly making their way up from the downstairs tunnel area.
Sam: I think we can beat them all.
Orion: Seeing what's going on-- there's an illithid right behind me, right?
Matt: There is. Right behind you, yeah.
Travis: I thought she closed the door.
Laura: No, we didn't.
Matt: Yeah, the other door is open.
Marisha: I closed the one, but then he said that they could levitate so I decided it wasn't worth it.
Sam: Hey, man. Grog's being held prisoner by an 80-pound dude.
Orion: So I'm running off and then Percy takes off? So I can't get to him?
Matt: Yeah, he's (whoosh), you can't get to him.
Orion: Awesome.
Travis: I'm so ashamed right now.
Orion: I need a technical question. Can I move the Horn and let go of the spell so I can then do my turn? Or does that take a thing to do that? Like, I want to let it go--
Matt: No.
Orion: Good. So as I'm running up to the carpet, I see Percy go and I'm like, "(growls) Damn Tiamat-lover!" So I bring over the Horn and right at the tip, on the carpet, I let it go. "You deal with it then!"
Matt: Percy? (loud clatter)
Laura: Oh no, K'Varn!
Matt: That's what you get!
Orion: I don't give it to Percy, I let it land on the carpet.
Matt: I know. I'm saying it's on his carpet right now, staring at him from the side.
Ashley: Put it on, Percy!
Orion: I see the-- oh god. Okay, I can only do this once. I see the-- they're not inside yet, right?
Matt: No. They're just starting to get to the doorway. You can see them right there.
Orion: Awesome. Okay, that is a-- and this is a-- Okay.
Matt: What you got, Tiberius? (laughter)
Travis: (Tiberius voice) Poppycock, poppycock.
Orion: Right. I have-- I blow everything. I'm going to blow everything.
Travis: Yes! Blow everybody. (laughter)
Matt: How diplomatic of you!
Sam: I'm stunned!
Orion: You cannot resist!
Matt: So, Tiberius.
Orion: As I leave the Horn there, I turn to where the door is. Obelisk of Stone. I seal up the entryway.
Matt: How many with that, what level are you using it?
Orion: Well, how wide is it? Like 15 feet?
Matt: It's a little over five feet wide.
Orion: Great. I only need one, right?
Matt: Technically, yeah.
Orion: Okay. So I seal that one-- I'm going to use all three right now.
Marisha: Seal the other one, too. I only partially sealed it.
Orion: I'll seal the other one.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: And I'll use the other one on myself.
Matt: Okay!
Orion: And I'm going to use-- I only have three left. Yeah, okay. And I'm going to use my last three sorcerer points that I have, and I have zero points after this, and I'm going to cast Blur on myself. And that's my turn.
Matt: All righty. You now start hearing (boof, boof) slamming sounds from the other side of the stone walls. Both sides of the walls are now sealed off with pillars, and a large pile of rubble on that side. All right, Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: All right, before I go anywhere, I'm taking a shot at Clarota.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Betraying bastard.
Taliesin: With Sharpshooter, that's 13, 14, 15, 16, 17. 19 points?
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: That hits, and let's do my damage. That's 22 points of damage.
Matt: Okay. So, Scanlan, as you're stunned, you feel the tentacles swirling around the back of your head. Teeth are grinding into the back of your skull, and you feel this horrible pain as all of a sudden, Clarota's mouth is beginning to find a way towards your skull. (laughter)
Matt: And then the tentacles suddenly go limp as the back of Clarota's head (gunshot) becomes a mess.
Taliesin: Traitor!
Marisha: Traitor!
Laura: I can't believe we killed Clarota!
Taliesin: Some people have no sense of fucking honor! (laughter)
Marisha: Traitor!
Travis: Oh, Percy!
Matt: In a split second, your longtime ally, now turncoat, is scattered across the stone floor. You're released, you're no longer stunned.
Sam: (gasps) Hi, guys!
Taliesin: I still have another shot.
Matt: You do.
Marisha: There's someone on Pike, right?
Matt: There's still one on Pike right now, yeah, right here.
Taliesin: I'm taking a shot there.
Travis: Come on, Perce!
Ashley: Perce!
Marisha: Pew pew!
Taliesin: Oh yeah! So that's 17-- 17, 18, 19--
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: Okay, that just hits, all right. I'm trying to use Sharpshooter, so it changes everything. And that's 18 points of damage.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And did we get a short rest before this fight happened?
Sam: No.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: Fuck, never mind.
Matt: No you did not.
Marisha: That's why we're all burnt out on spells.
Taliesin: That's why we're all burnt out on shit, okay.
Orion: Except me.
Matt: Yeah, the other one--
Taliesin: I'm going to go up further.
Matt: Even further? Okay.
Laura: "Because I didn't help you guys!" Thanks, Tiberius!
Ashley: "I abandoned my troop!"
Orion: It's going to come in handy now!
Taliesin: Am I high enough yet for her to jump down onto the--
Matt: Yeah, you could probably pull it off.
Taliesin: So, if you and your bear want to jump on?
Matt: It'd be an acrobatics roll, but yeah.
Sam: Wait, why would you-- you've got to come save us!
Laura: Yeah, no, go down and save them, honestly, because I'm staying up top for right now, unless we can teleport out.
Taliesin: Oh, in that case, instead of going up I'm going to go fly to the right, then.
Orion: Pick up Vax!
Laura: Why?
Orion: I said Vax.
Laura: Vax?
Marisha: Vax? Pick up Vax?
Orion: Yes.
Taliesin: Yeah, so I'm going to fly down towards Vax, as well.
Matt: Okay. So you're going down to here instead?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, you can get about-- we'll say, if you're just going--
Taliesin: Yeah, go there.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Hi.
Ashley: Hey you guys!
Taliesin: Hey you guys!
Marisha: Hey you guys!
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn. That brings it--
Ashley: Did anything happen to the guy that had me--
Matt: He just took damage, but he's not done yet.
Ashley: He just took damage, he's still (slurps).
Matt: So, Pike, it's your turn.
Ashley: It's my turn.
Matt: Go ahead and roll to get rid of the Mind Blast stun.
Ashley: Come on.
Sam: Come on, Pikey.
Ashley: Fuck. It's seven.
Matt: Seven? Nope. You're still locked in place.
Taliesin: Can you heal yourself?
Matt: She cannot move. Her entire brain is locked in with a searing clenching pain, psychic energy is just clutching her brain and holding it hostage.
Sam: Still beautiful, though. (laughter)
Matt: You feel, once again, the teeth beginning to pierce the back of the flesh. You feel the teeth of the mind flayer beginning to scrape against the skull, the actual bone it's found in the back. Vax, you're up.
Liam: What did Clarota do with his hat?
Matt: Oh, it's somewhere on the ground over here.
Liam: Over behind--
Matt: Over behind this.
Liam: Okay, I'm still Hasted, I'm going to run down the center over Clar-- I'm going to step on Clarota's-- I don't know if he has nuts, but whatever's there, I'm going to step there, run around Scanlan, and place his fucking hat on my head.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And then run up behind that third mind flayer, who I don't think has taken a hit yet, and just start stabbing him in the back.
Matt: Right here?
Laura: No, on Pike!
Liam: I can't get back there.
Laura: You can't?
Liam: I don't think so.
Laura: Would he be able to make it?
Liam: Well it's up to-- oh dear.
Matt: You can't, with the speed you're running there, because your Hasted speed is doubled, so it's 60 feet.
Liam: I'm Hasted, I can run 12 spaces, so if you think that I could have run around the mind flayer, put on the party hat--
Matt: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, 11, 12. You can move right there.
Liam: Okay, great. So I'm going to start stabbing him in the back, angrily.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Okay, yeah, so, first one is a 15?
Matt: Unfortunately-- no, that does just hit.
Liam: That's a Sneak Attack, because she's next to him. There's nothing in the rule book about stunned, or unconscious, or anything.
Matt: How Sneak Attack works is if they're next to someone that's aggressive toward them; they feel like they have people on two fronts, which is why you get the benefit.
Taliesin: He is, to be fair, very occupied.
Matt: I will say, circumstantially though, because he is currently grappled on to Pike, and is in the process of trying to grind into her brain with his mouth, he is a little preoccupied at the moment.
Travis: He's sucking head.
Matt: So I'm going to go ahead and make a perception roll versus your fast movement. Go ahead and make a stealth-- roll stealth to see whether or not he takes notice and changes his position in defense.
Liam: I rolled a 24.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead. The first attack you rolled was a 15, that hits!
Liam: Okay, thank you.
Matt: And that is a Sneak Attack, he did not see you coming that quickly.
Liam: All right, so that is four, plus seven is 11, plus-- okay, that's 17, 21, thank you. 26, 30, 33. 33 with keen dagger.
Matt: 33 with the keen dagger?
Liam: And I'm sticking that in the back of his neck.
Matt: Okay. That was your first attack?
Liam: That's the first attack.
Matt: Okay, so the first dagger (shnk) sinks into the back of the neck. You just manage to miss all the seriously vital stuff, but you carve a giant section out of the side of its head. The rest of its leathery black outfit's now slick with its own blood. You see it angrily growls, almost this weird guttural, this (gurgling growl) sound as it still remains taut and clenched on Pike, its eyes glaring at you, basically telling you, "Look what I'm about to do to your friend."
Liam: Okay, so good thing I have more knives. So I take the other one, flip it in my hand and then stick it into the neck afterwards. That's a 24.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Yeah, it does. That's eight. Fire damage, I don't know if he takes any fire damage, and I'm going to then stick him with my poison dagger, which isn't going to poison him. But that is a 26 which hits as well.
Matt: That does hit.
Liam: And that is eight.
Matt: Eight points of damage. So the first one you stab in the side of the head, you pull back and toss it in the air, catch the second one. As it bursts into flames you place the searing dagger down into the center of its back between its shoulder blades. Its back tenses, and as it does it reaches back and tries to grab for the dagger as you pull back the third one. As it looks back at you it brings up one arm to stop you as it goes in to directly go after Pike's head. The third dagger you then stab it right in the front of the skull. Its eyes roll back in its head and its tentacles limply drag off. (cheering)
Liam: As a bonus action, I would like to Goodfellas-kick him about eight times in the ribs. (laughter)
Marisha: Yes!
Matt: I'll allow it. Oh my god. Because that guy was next! If we didn't kill him this turn, she would've taken 55 points of damage.
Travis: 50-- Let's not even say the number.
Ashley: You saved my life.
Matt: Yeah. And if it takes you to zero hit points, they extract the brain and eat it.
Laura: Now we've got to squish those little brains.
Liam: There's still a mind flayer.
Travis: We're coming real close.
Matt: Let's see if they get their Mind Blast back. Nope. Nope.
Liam: This show is not good for my blood pressure.
Marisha: I know! It's like constant fight or flight.
Travis: I think I'm going blind in my left eye.
Marisha: This should fix your sleep schedule though, right?
Travis: Yeah, totally.
Matt: Seeing both of them get immediately slaughtered, both of these illithids just Plane Shift. A defensive standpoint, self-preservation is kicking in. However, intellect devourers do not have self-preservation. They're there for a specific reason. So this one here is going to move over to this side and is going to attempt to make a Devour Intellect attack against Keyleth. Keyleth, go ahead and make an intelligence saving throw.
Marisha: I'm an elemental, so.
Matt: You keep your intelligence score as you.
Marisha: Oh, I do?
Matt: The physical attributes you get from the elemental form. You keep your intellect, wisdom, and charisma.
Marisha: Okay, then 18.
Matt: 18, Okay. You resist the blast of mental impact from the intellect devourer, now on the ground with its four feral legs, its brain form rippling. The second one is going to turn over here and saw the two shots, the one that took out Clarota. It turns up towards Percy, as you've lowered on the magic carpet, Percy. Go ahead and make an intellect saving throw.
Taliesin: Eight.
Matt: Eight? All righty.
Sam: Oh boy. That ain't no good.
Matt: You take 11 points of psychic damage.
Taliesin: There's an "and" there, isn't there?
Sam: And it's undone immediately. (laughter)
Matt: And you take eight points of intellect damage.
Laura: Oh, this is what happened to Grog!
Travis: You're better off than six, right?
Taliesin: Eight points of intellect damage. What does that mean, precisely?
Liam: Minus from your intelligence.
Sam: You would know if you had more intellect.
Laura: Forever?
Matt: No, no, no, no. For this, it basically-- what's your intelligence?
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16? Yeah, the blast hits you and you just shrug off the impact. It has to exceed your intelligence.
Taliesin: So do I still take eight more points of damage, though?
Matt: No, no no. You just the additional--
Taliesin: I just, I'm just going to go duh-duh. (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, the intellect damage is not permanent.
Taliesin: I like purple.
Matt: Not quite that bad.
Travis: I can't not do it.
Matt: All right. That ends their turn. That brings us to Scanlan. You're no longer stunned. You now have full capacity of yourself and you're looking around, oh shit.
Sam: Do we get out of here or do we try to kill these things?
Travis: Can you get us out of here?
Sam: I can get some of us out of here.
Marisha: Start getting us out.
Sam: Are we getting out or are we fighting?
Travis: Getting us out.
Marisha: Because we still have these fuckers we have to--
Ashley: Because Tiberius can get some of us out, right?
Liam: It's just the brains. Just the little brains.
Sam: It's just the little brains. For now.
Matt: Make a perception check, by the way.
Marisha: For now, but people can beat through those doors. That's not a permanent thing.
Taliesin: We need 60 seconds to get out of here is what we need. We need 60 uninterrupted seconds.
Marisha: Well, we can start gathering our shit and packing up.
Taliesin: Oh, yeah.
Marisha: We can start packing up.
Sam: Am I leaving or am I staying?
Travis: You do what you want.
Liam: Do what you want. It's chaos.
Sam: (sighs) All right. Then I'll attack.
Matt: Swarming thing that drift up the sides of the temple from the floor. Coming from inside the temple and out toward the top.
Laura: We should probably get out of here! They're coming up the sides!
Ashley: We can't get you out of here if you don't come--
Sam: I run up to Pike. I grab her hand. I say, "I want to have babies with you." (laughter)
Sam: Let's get out of here. (sings) So now I come to you with Dimension Door.
Ashley: Wait! Can I do a Mass Cure Wounds before we leave? (laughter)
Sam: And we get out.
Matt: You're still stunned from the Mind Blast. You haven't made your save.
Sam: We're going up to the top of the-- to the thing. Just to the roof there.
Laura: They're coming up the sides!
Ashley: We've got to go somewhere else.
Sam: Well, I didn't know that. (laughs) It's done.
Orion: It's fine. It's good that they're up there.
Sam: And, as a bonus, I'm going to send some inspiration to Grog.
Matt: Okay, as you Dimension Door you just go ahead and look back. Using the song of love you gave to Pike, you give back, give a wink to Grog. Grog, you take a 1d10 inspiration. 1d10 inspiration dice to you.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Grog, we would like you to rage.
Travis: I'm already there. I'm just being fucking grappled. Is it my turn?
Matt: It is now.
Travis: Oh, can I try it for the third time to break free?
Matt: You can. Go ahead and go ahead and make your athletics.
Liam: Use that inspiration die, man.
Travis: I'll use the inspiration die just in case I rolled balls again.
Matt: Well, you can use it after you do it. See what you roll and then add it.
Travis: It's athletics, right?
Matt: Athletics, yeah.
Travis: 18.
Matt: 18?
Liam: Come on.
Matt: Yeah, you (boosh) break out of the creature's grasp. Suddenly it's reaching at you from behind the bars. You can see there's this slick, brackish oil on your body from where it was holding you. Fleshless arms clutching you to the bars.
Travis: So is everybody leaving? Should I climb up the rope?
Matt: There is Lady Kima who is turned to stone.
Marisha: We've got to get Kima out.
Travis: Fuck Lady Kima!
Orion: Pick her up!
Laura: I thought you had a crush on her?
Ashley: Can he grab her and climb?
Matt: You can. She's not a big stone structure.
Travis: Okay, cool. I pick her up and start trying to climb up the rope.
Matt: Okay, so you rush, you grab the stone form.
Sam: Put her in the Bag of Holding!
All - sam - matt: No!
Travis: She's stone! It doesn't matter!
Orion: Don't do that!
Travis: I take her and-- oh, fine. I'll hold on to her.
Sam: No, put her in the bag!
Marisha: Can you make one of those baby slings? Stuff her in your belt?
Taliesin: It's not time for arts and crafts.
Matt: You run up. You grab Lady Kima. You grab her in your arms and you rush. The rope is currently dangling from this side where you guys first came in.
Laura: Stomp all over the brain to get to it.
Matt: 50 speed. You can get up to here. You can just get up to the rope and we'll say as your dash action you can begin to climb, if you'd like.
Travis: I would like to climb.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I would like to raise.
Travis: I would like to rage. Rage climb.
Matt: It gets you about there. Rage climbing like (grunts).
Orion: Yes!
Matt: One-handed up the rope. That's pretty intense. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Marisha: Yes. That Crossfit training come in handy.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17. Yeah, it's sore. You know that arm is going to be dead tomorrow, but right now it doesn't even matter. You're just clutching Lady Kima, still locked in her attack pose, in one arm as you're overhand grabbing the rope and getting yourself up as fast as you can.
Travis: You better remember this when you wake up. (laughter)
Matt: Rage-climbing up the rope.
Liam: He's climbing the Cliffs of Insanity! (laughter)
Matt: That brings us to Vex.
Laura: I should just stay where I am, right guys?
Taliesin: And you should shoot things.
Laura: I'm going to do that, yes. Is there any other-- there's just a little brain in there right now?
Matt: Right now there's two brains, and you can see just in the outskirts of the temple's side here, two more illithid that are making their way up the side of the temple.
Laura: Oh, fuck me.
Matt: With about a hundred or so just now gathering towards the bottom of the temple base.
Laura: Jesus. We're going to get out of here real fast! You guys are listening to me, right? Because things are coming up the side and we need to get out of here.
Sam: But what if there's gold down there to find?
Laura: I don't give a fuck! I'm going to Hunter's Mark a little brain. Or should I keep attacking the Elder Brain? What do you guys think?
Taliesin: Elder Brain is spilling out the side now, isn't it?
Matt: The Elder Brain is still inside, just the stonework on the outside of it is currently knocked out.
Taliesin: Yeah, I have a carpet anyway, so let's just jump on it.
Liam: I mean, it might get sent reeling, that brain.
Laura: I know, that's why I'm kind of like, hm.
Liam: Maybe if-- we should try to get out of here, but maybe if we can frigging hurt that brain it'll stun them or send them reeling or something, or make them mad.
Laura: All right. I can do Hail of Thorns on it again, so I'll Hunter's Mark it and then I'll do Hail of Thorns on it.
Matt: All right.
Laura: 27.
Matt: That'll hit. Releasing again, in midair you can see all the thorns appear out the sides of the arrow shaft. It explodes into a giant conical-- just a ray, almost like a blizzard of thorns.
Liam: Get it.
Laura: I don't add-- do I add Hunter's Mark to that damage, or just my regular and then that?
Matt: At the end of all the damage you dealt with the attack, you then add Hunter's Mark to that.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: Big money.
Laura: 22. 24.
Matt: 24, all righty. Keyleth, go ahead and make a reflex saving throw.
Marisha: What's happening?
Laura: Oh, right, because you're right next to it, sorry Keyleth.
Marisha: Oh, it's okay. My reflex-- I use my dex modifier for my elemental, correct?
Matt: Or deflect, yeah, sorry, old carryover, it's dexterity.
Marisha: Ten.
Matt: Ten? Versus your spell save of--
Laura: 14.
Matt: Yeah, so you take the same damage. You take 24 points of damage.
Laura: Sorry. Oh right, you're really, really strong.
Marisha: Yeah, I've got 100 hit points still.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: So how many points? 21?
Matt: 24. So, all the thorns explode against your rocky physical form; you just shrug it off, like it's nothing. (laughs) It tickles a little.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm good.
Laura: So I'll try to-- I guess I'll just attack it again, because I've got nowhere else to go.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Yeah.
Laura: 17?
Matt: All right, 17-- actually no, 17 will miss.
Laura: Oh really, with it oozing out and everything?
Matt: The second, there's some sort of psychic protective field in the brain. As you fire down, the arrow looks like it should strike and then it just arcs off to the side nonsensically, and then just splinters against the stonework next to the--
Laura: Fudge!
Travis: Fudge.
Matt: You going to stay where you are? You going to move?
Orion: Get on Trinket!
Laura: I'm going to climb onto Trinket for some reason, because that makes sense.
Matt: Okay, you climb onto Trinket's back. That brings us to Keyleth. You're up.
Marisha: Okay, what's the situation with the brain soup?
Matt: The liquid is poured out.
Marisha: And how are the brains? Are just brains just floating downstream?
Matt: No, it's actually all-- at a long distance, it looks like one giant brain, close up it looks like all of these smaller brains have all congealed into one giant mind.
Laura: It's like a jello mold of brains.
Marisha: Like a jello mold of a brain. And there's fluid coming out from underneath of it?
Matt: Yeah. Literally the fluid it was sitting in, it was mostly submerged in, is all now poured out onto the ground near you, beginning to get slick.
Marisha: Okay, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to be like, phase under, phase down, and I'm going to get under where the brain would be, and I'm going to Superman punch it!
Laura: Yes!
Orion: Yeah!
Marisha: From underneath.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make an attack roll.
Travis: Come on, punch it in its big brain anus.
Marisha: 23!
Matt: 23, that hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: (laughs) 11? Wait, is that my--
Taliesin: No, 22.
Marisha: Oh, 22! You're right, 22.
Matt: It's not double damage, because you're not hitting the structure. So 11 points of damage? All right, now I want you to go ahead and make a strength check.
Marisha: Okay, that sounds fun.
Matt: So just roll and add your strength modifier of the earth elemental.
Marisha: 14?
Matt: Okay, as you punch upward, you're still partially absorbed into the earth, but your fist comes through and it slams in, and you feel this sickening thud sound as your fist hits the interior of the brain. It still moves a little bit but it stays in its place held aloft by its own psychic defense mechanism. Make your second attack.
Marisha: Okay, yeah, same, 21.
Matt: 21 hits. Go ahead and roll damage on that one.
Laura: Big damage!
Marisha: Come on.
Taliesin: Big money.
Marisha: Oh, that's better. 16.
Matt: 16 damage. Go ahead and roll another strength check.
Marisha: Eight.
Matt: Eight? Okay. Once again, you slam your fist into it and you feel like the impact is absorbed partially by the psychic field around the brain. It holds itself in place. It's still not moving from within that small--
Marisha: Do I stay or do I get out?
Laura: Get out.
Orion: Get out.
Matt: You still have about-- I'd say it only took you about 15 feet of movement to get underneath it.
Marisha: In my burrowing speed, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: So, I'm going to start burrowing up the side of the mountain-- up the side of the temple, so I can pop out next to them.
Matt: Okay, so we'll say 25, 30, 35, 40, 45. What's your total burrow speed?
Marisha: 60.
Matt: So you'll be about there.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: So you're about as high as Tiberius is, partially up the wall.
Marisha: I'm in the wall.
Laura: They won't see you.
Travis: Vax, you're still on the floor, right?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Up on there. As you glance in, you kinda have a brief look at the outside of the wall and on the opposite side there are two other mind flayers. One more coming up on the side and another troll behind it. And the troll's slamming onto the bricks you left up. And these two illithids are starting to look up and see you moving up, and their eyes go up and they can see the opening in the top of the-- where the wall collapsed earlier. And they both look up and kinda start drifting up towards it. So that ends your turn. Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: What's the order after me?
Matt: Well, it's Percy, Pike, Vax, and then they go. Then Scanlan, Grog.
Taliesin: I was going to hold my turn to get everybody on the carpet.
Liam: I'm coming.
Orion: Okay, okay, good. I cast Fly at 5th level. I cast it on myself. I cast it on Grog. And I cast it on-- you're not there.
Laura: Trinket!
Orion: Trinket. (groans)
Travis: She's on Trinket.
Laura: So I can fly if I'm on Trinket, right?
Orion: Yeah.
Laura: Sweet!
Matt: All right, so Grog, Trinket, and--
Orion: Me.
Matt: Yourself. Okay.
Orion: And I (flying noise).
Matt: What's the fly speed on that?
Orion: Um, outside?
Liam: A skillion.
Orion: I dunno, it's right here. It's right here.
Matt: It's on the card, the cards I gave you.
Orion: The cards! Look at the cards. It's 60 feet.
Matt: 60 feet. You make your way up top and you're now hovering. Trinket's now having another Peter Pan moment with you on his back awkwardly. It's just gotten used to flying on its own, that one time it had. Now it has an extra weight on its back. (bear noises)
Laura: You can do it, buddy. You can do it.
Ashley: You got it, Trink.
Matt: All right.
Orion: Oh wait, hold on-- I want to turn to to everybody and go, "Fly, you fools."
Matt: It's a free action, I'll let you do that. (laughs) Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm holding my turn.
Matt: You're holding back?
Taliesin: I'm holding my turn.
Matt: Okay. Percy, holding back. Pike, go ahead and make an intellect saving throw.
Laura: Yes!
Ashley: 19.
Matt: 19. You finally shrug off the effect of the Mind Blast. Your eyes clarify.
Sam: Does she fall in love with the first thing she sees? (laughter)
Matt: (laughs) The first thing you do see is Scanlan holding you. You're now outside of the temple. There's the dark, kind of dull glowing green atmosphere outside the entire Yug'Voril city around you, with bits of blue crystal, you know, against the cavern walls. It's scary. You look around you, you can see illithid charging up the side of the temple, just gliding toward you angrily. You look forward and on your shoulders, clutching you, is Scanlan, blood streaking down the front of his face with a big smile.
Ashley: (gasps) Scanlan, are you hurt?
Sam: I'm fine, baby. How are you?
Ashley: I'm great. Well, not really, but I'm just going to pretend I'm happy so that everybody can be okay. (laughter)
Orion: That's right, Pike. Bury it deep inside.
Ashley: Well, can I do a spell? Okay, Mass Cure Wounds.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: For the, well, hold on a minute. How low is everybody? Not really that low?
Laura: Nobody's really low.
Travis: I'm at 32.
Ashley: He's pretty low.
Taliesin: You two are the only ones.
Laura: Yeah. Can you cast something on Kima? Oh, no. We should just keep her stone for now.
Sam: You're low. You're super low.
Laura: Yeah, cast it on yourself, man.
Travis: Heal yourself.
Taliesin: She can hold this part of her turn until everybody's up there.
Matt: Mass Cure Wounds on yourself? Because Mass Cure Wounds is for multiple people.
Ashley: No, can I just do--
Matt: You can cast Cure Wounds on yourself.
Ashley: I can?
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: But he needs it, too.
Matt: It's your choice. It's also touch. You have to be next to him to do that.
Ashley: Shit.
Travis: Just do your thing. You need it.
Ashley: All right, I need it? Oh no.
Matt: At six hit points, I'd recommend it to you.
Travis: The DM recommends it. (laughter)
Matt: You were so close to dying again. I was so scared.
Travis: I stringently urge you.
Liam: Four out of five DMs recommend. (laughter)
Ashley: All right, 17.
Matt: Okay, so you heal yourself 17 hit points. You clutch your holy symbol. You feel the warmth fill your body and your wounds seal up slowly. You feel a little better, because you were on death's door there. All right. You want to move at all? Anything else you want to do this turn or are you good?
Ashley: Now I'm at 23. Wait, so bonus action?
Orion: Get on the bear!
Laura: No, he can't--
Matt: You don't have to.
Ashley: He can "bear-ly" hold one. (groans and laughter)
Laura: Ba dum tss.
Ashley: I can't do that, right?
Matt: What?
Ashley: I can't get on Trinket?
Matt: Right now, Trinket can barely hold Vex.
Ashley: So as a bonus action, I'll give Scanlan a kiss on his cheek.
Sam: Oh! Do I get an inspiration for that?
Matt: You do. (laughter)
Matt: A d6 inspiration dice.
Sam: I'm never going to wash it again.
Orion: You never wash it to begin with.
Matt: It's this strangely romantic moment as she reaches forward, grabs him and kisses him on the cheek and pulls away and he looks at her with this beautiful smile, and then the sound effects kick in again, of the bats screeching ahead and the (inhales) of all the illithid swarming up the side of the temple.
Marisha: Oh god, we're still in a war zone!
Ashley: Oh no, we got to get it together.
Matt: All right, Vax.
Liam: Okay, I run up the dais, land on the brain. I'm on my way, but before I go, I'm going to kiss you goodbye. Dagger, dagger, dagger. Stabbing into the brain before I leap onto the carpet. So here I go. First one-- misses. Second one is a 25.
Matt: 25, okay.
Liam: Which gets nine damage.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And last dagger is a 13.
Matt: No.
Liam: Okay, so I'll give him a little cut, a little nick, and then jump on the flying carpet.
Matt: Jump on the flying carpet. All righty.
Liam: And I grab Percy around the neck and kiss him on the cheek, and say, "Let's get out of here, you bastard."
Taliesin: Do I get an inspiration point for that? (laughter)
Matt: No.
Laura: That's a double standard.
Taliesin: You know how I feel about you.
Liam: Fight the patriarchy.
Matt: Down the road, maybe. This is the start of something beautiful.
Taliesin: I'm feeling something new.
Matt: Let the seeds germinate for a while. Then the dice may come naturally. So you're holding your turn? Percy, you want to go now?
Taliesin: I want to go now.
Matt: All right. So, that brings you here. Percy, go ahead.
Taliesin: I'm just going to reel straight up. And on my way up, I'm going to take two more shots at the brain.
Matt: Okay, okay. We'll say here for the purposes of this. Taking two more shots?
Taliesin: 16.
Liam: Oh, I'm suffocating in the brain!
Matt: Oh no, it's fallen over. What's the first roll?
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16 does hit. Oh, it's not even flat, okay. We're just going to put it down there.
Taliesin: And 19.
Matt: 16 doesn't hit. The 19 just barely hits it. It pierces through the psychic barrier. (zoomf) The bullet sinking again into the fleshy membrane.
Taliesin: The second one has a bonus die, yay.
Matt: Ice shot.
Taliesin: Ice shot.
Marisha: Maybe you'll freeze it.
Liam: Percy and Vax, ship it!
Taliesin: That's 13 points plus two points of ice damage.
Matt: Okay, so 16 total. All right. As it blasts inside, you can see the ice, these strange crystals of frozen liquid, they burst out, almost like it actually freezes the blue explosion in place for a moment, and then the ice just slowly melts away. Yeah, there's some damage dealt to it, but this is a hardy sack of hit points. And it's coming online. So with the end of your turn, the brain, now taken a bunch of hits, begins to pulse with energy, now that it's been freed from its control and it's slowly brought itself out of this trance-like slumber that it was placed in by K'Varn. The Elder Brain is now becoming conscious once again.
Liam: Oh dear.
Taliesin: Can we go up there? Can you put us at our height now? (laughter)
Marisha: Can you represent us accurately?
Matt: So at a 30-foot radius, which you guys are, it gives off a pulse of energy, (boomf) this giant psychic burst of purple-ish, psychic blast just cascades out of the center and just fills the room for a second with this large dull thud-like "thoom" sound. All of you instinctively look down and see this explosion that just dissipates as it crests the bottom of the magic carpet, which is just out of range.
Taliesin: You're wearing the helmet, at least.
Matt: At which point, you guys who are at the top, looking off to the side, all the illithid that are rushing up the tunnel, there's a sudden flash of purple energy in their eyes simultaneously. Like now the Elder Brain has come back online and has reconnected with its people.
Laura: Out, out, out!
Matt: All right, that brings us to Grog. Grog.
Travis: I can keep flying up?
Matt: All of the sudden, the rope is really easy to go up. It's nothing, you're just going hand over hand.
Orion: You can fly, Grog!
Travis: I have one more level three, whatever it's called, level three healing potion. They're called called superior or something? What's the word for it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I'd like to take that.
Marisha: I have so much adrenaline during these kind of fights.
Taliesin: I know.
Matt: They're moving around, they're angry, they can't quite get to their targets.
Travis: I heal 24 points of hit damage.
Matt: Fantastic. Rolling for the bottom of the attack round. Okay. The troll bursts through the door, filling in with the two mind flayers behind it. They both look up, frustrated. And both begin to drift up.
Laura: No!
Matt: As far as they can get.
Travis: Fuck this house of horrors.
Ashley: How do we get out of here?
Laura: How are we going to get out of here?
Matt: They are going to attempt two Mind Blasts. All right. That's as high as they get with levitation. With the full height that takes the top, because technically you guys are up here, I just couldn't put the structure that high up. The only people-- The only person that's in the radius would be Scanlan and Pike. Again.
Ashley: All right.
Matt: Both of you guys make intellect saving throws again.
Sam: I'm just looking into her eyes the whole time.
Ashley: Can you sing?
Marisha: You've got that inspiration die.
Sam: Oh, I do. I don't need it though.
Matt: What did you roll?
Sam: I'm at 20.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: 14.
Matt: 14? All right.
Sam: Can I sing for her?
Matt: (laughs) Unfortunately, you have to do that on your turn. You manage to resist the effects of it. You take 22 points of psychic damage and once again your brain clenches--
Laura: Good thing you healed yourself, Pike!
Matt: Damn good thing you healed yourself.
Sam: She was at 23! That's 22. That's one point!
Laura: Yeah. That's the second time this round.
Matt: You feel all of the sudden, the blast hits you and you see her eyes roll back in her head as she reaches up and grabs the side of her head again, nearly dropping her shield and mace, which you manage to catch before they clatter down into the temple.
Ashley: Okay.
Sam: Baby, come on.
Ashley: Maybe we'll be okay?
Marisha: Do you want some more dice?
Matt: All right, Grog, you're up. Oh no, you're up there, they went. That brings it to the top of the round. Vex, you're up.
Marisha: Take it, take it. Give it to her, please.
Orion: Head to the beach!
Sam: Wait, top of the round?
Matt: Yeah, we're at the very top now. At the very end, the new guys burst in and attacked.
Laura: I'm going to-- (sighs) Is that brain fluid still floating around it? Like, out and stuff?
Travis: Well, we woke it up.
Laura: I know.
Liam: But now it's awake, so--
Matt: Percy shot-- No, actually, you didn't do your turn on that one. I'm sorry, I think we skipped Scanlan.
Sam: Should I kill the brain, or try to kill the brain?
Liam: If you can also flee at the same time.
Orion: Well, he has to wait for the carpet.
Sam: The brain is down there in the puddle? In the pool? Is that big scaffolding still hanging over it?
Matt: It's currently dangling over to this side. Because it's been busted from three different corners and it's precariously hanging.
Sam: But it's not right over the thing?
Laura: But it might fall and tip.
Sam: Or it could not.
Ashley: Could somebody also use Telekinesis to pull it to fall the other way?
Orion: I do not have the necessary item to do two concentration spells at once.
Sam: Is it super heavy?
Matt: It's pretty heavy. It probably weighs close to 700 to 1,000 pounds.
Marisha: What does?
Matt: The giant brass structure.
Sam: And how high above it is it? Like, would it get a significant amount of force?
Matt: It would fall down and then topple over.
Sam: Unless I made it fall--
Matt: Unless you made it fall. In that case, we'll see.
Sam: Do I do that or do I just Lightning Strike? Okay.
Liam: It's your decision.
Marisha: Go bold!
Travis: Do what you were going to do. Do it.
Sam: I'm feeling handsy. (laughter)
Sam: (sings) Bigby's Hand! So I take Bigby's Hand and I sort of try to wrench it off the last thing that's holding it up, but in the direction of the--
Matt: Okay!
Sam: Of the brain.
Matt: Go ahead and make a roll, adding your plus five for your casting ability.
Sam: Well, that's not good.
Orion: And inspiration!
Sam: Oh, yeah! Okay, so that makes it 13 plus what?
Matt: 13 plus five, which is your charisma.
Sam: Okay, then 18.
Matt: 18. As the spectral Bigby's Hand reaches over and grabs the top of the structure, you can see the weird bit of bent metal that was once part of the mostly-destroyed structure that held it aloft in the center of the temple (metal creaking) wrenches forth and snaps as the entire structure begins to be pulled at an angle.
Sam: (sings) It's Bigby's Hand.
Matt: It slams down at an angle into the side of the brain and coming to rest on top, crushing even further the corpse of Clarota, currently smeared across the ground. Oh, man. Go ahead and roll 6d6 force damage on that. Crushing damage, as this heavy thing jams itself into the brain.
Liam: Six cubes, Sam, six cubes.
Sam: Orion's my dice bimbo.
Orion: Here you go, boss.
Ashley: There you go, boss!
Sam: 16.
Matt: 16, so the structure slams into the Elder Brain, and you can see like a bit of purplish black liquid kinda squirts out to one side and for the first time you can see a part of the brain is actually torn open, and the purplish glow that you see throbbing in the middle of its folds is now visible from the interior. You can see now, it's taken some real damage. Immediately the two mind flayers that were floating up look down, freaked out, and begin moving towards the brain now, instinctively, to defend it.
Sam: And bonus action, can I pour some superior healing potion down Pike's beautiful throat?
Matt: You can. (laughter)
Matt: I'm not going anywhere with that.
Taliesin: Yeah, no.
Sam: I'm just pouring my potion down Pike's throat.
Matt: Anyway. All right, so Vex, what're you doing?
Sam: I don't know what superior is.
Matt: Oh, it's a superior one, superior goes to, it's 8d4 plus eight.
Sam: Do I roll or does she?
Matt: You roll.
Sam: Oh!
Matt: It's your potion.
Sam: 8d4 plus eight.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Holy bajeez. One.
Matt: Five, nine, 13.
Sam: 15, 18, 21.
Matt: 15, 18, 21.
Matt: One more.
Sam: 22.
Matt: Plus eight, 30. You heal 30 hit points.
Ashley: What? Awesome.
Sam: I got some good potion.
Matt: Very, very expensive potion used. All right, so. Vex? You're on Trinket still, do you want to hold your action and wait for the rest of the carpet, do you want to attack anyone, what do you want to do?
Laura: I want to attack the Elder Brain.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Laura: I'm going to-- I think all I can do is a Conjure Barrage.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: So it's the cone of attack.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: So that will get hopefully all the things, because I'm shooting down, right?
Matt: Well, how big is the cone?
Laura: It's 60 feet.
Matt: 60-foot cone from your angle here, if you're going for the brain it'll catch this guy, maybe, as a cone that goes down this way.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Unless you want to go this way and hit these guys, or this guy.
Liam: You could get the edge of the brain.
Laura: Yeah, can I do the edge on the brain and get--
Matt: Yeah. You can get, you can get probably these guys there.
Laura: All right, let's do that.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So they get saving throws, right? How does that work?
Laura: Yes, they get saving throws.
Matt: So roll damage, and we'll see what their saving throws are.
Laura: Okay. But do I have to roll to see if it hits, or it just hits?
Matt: No, for that one, it's just a barrage and they get to roll a saving throw against it.
Laura: Oh! Okay, cool. 17?
Matt: All right.
Laura: Plus Hunter's Mark? On the Elder Brain.
Matt: Yeah, so the Elder Brain takes additional damage.
Laura: Three additional. Do I get plus two for the bracers on that Conjure Barrage?
Matt: Technically, yes you would, because they're ranged.
Laura: Okay, so that would've been 19.
Matt: 19. All right. Cool. And then this guy fails its save, so total damage on him?
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19 on him? Okay. So it's still alive, just looking really, really rough. The brain's just now pierced with a bunch of arrows, some of it, it's barely holding itself on top of its feet. And the troll also takes the damage as well, just seems to shrug it off, just seems to angrily-- roars up from the bottom of the temple at you, now seemingly helpless in the current circumstance.
Laura: So then I want to attack the Elder Brain again.
Matt: All right. So you release it down.
Laura: 20.
Matt: Very nice, that hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: All right. 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage, all right.
Laura: Oh, wait, wait! No, lies! 13.
Matt: 13, okay, there we go.
Travis: (laughs) No, lies.
Matt: (laughs) Reach down again, release this one, aiming towards the now torn-open wound on the side of the Elder Brain as the arrow now sinks in, there's another pulse of purple energy, and you hear, all of you simultaneously in your heads this scream, this screech (screech) that echoes through your heads. As it does, the two illithid that were hovering towards it grab their heads momentarily out of frustration and glare up at you angrily.
Orion: Ooh! I took notice of this.
Matt: That brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: I'm going to take the rest of my burrow speed to get up to the top.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: I'm assuming I'm there?
Matt: You just manage to make it to the top of the temple, yeah.
Marisha: Okay. Drop earth elemental.
Matt: All right. Keyleth is on the field.
Marisha: Would you say--
Sam: Oh boy. (laughter)
Matt: Nothing good ever comes out of this. What do you got, Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Theoretically.
Matt: Theoretically?
Marisha: Our brains are made up of water, right? Would you say that there is water in the like jello brain mold, like water molecules would be in it?
Matt: Make an arcana check.
Marisha: Okay. I don't know much in terms of arcana, but I can try. Ten.
Matt: You have no idea. You have never encountered an Elder Brain before.
Laura: Yeah, give it a try!
Taliesin: Give it a try!
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to cast Control Water. I'm going to assume that there's water, it's 300 feet, I got the range and I'm going to take the brain where it's already kind of sliced down the middle where Vex has already made progress, I'm going to take it and I'm just going to rip it apart.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier to it.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Wait, you're saying brains are made of water?
Taliesin: Whoa!
Marisha: 23.
Matt: Okay. There is an element of liquid to its structure, however it is difficult to extract it from a form that you're unfamiliar with, let alone one that's this stable. You manage to find a way to pull moisture out of parts of it and actually deal damage to it as you're beginning to shrivel sections of the brain. Go ahead and roll 3d6. You do 3d6 points of dehydration damage.
Marisha: I'll take it, I'll take it.
Ashley: Make some brain jerky.
Marisha: They'll have a really bad hangover tomorrow.
Matt: Oh yeah. Oh, you don't even know the half of it.
Marisha: Ooh! Just 3d6 or plus anything?
Matt: Just 3d6.
Marisha: 15.
Matt: 15, all right. 15 points of dehydration damage to the Elder Brain. You can see now the portion of the wound that's been opened, the corners of it kind of shrivel in and tuck in and the actual purple glow in the inside dulls slightly. And you now have, currently, in the air, a small amorphous globule of brain fluid that's just kind of floating there in this, in the air.
Ashley: Awesome.
Laura: Gross.
Marisha: Cool. (laughter)
Marisha: Scanlan, smell it! Smell it!
Sam: No, thank you.
Matt: Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: Did you say there was illithid coming up on the sides, too?
Matt: Yeah, they're swarming up the side. They're probably about halfway up.
Orion: Okay. I turn to the group. I suggest we go to the beach immediately. There we can shore up defenses and I can cast a spell and get us out of here. As I say that, I go (fwwt) and throw a Fireball right at that fucker's head.
Matt: Okay. Are you using your movement to bring the carpet, to take control of the carpet from Percy and move it up higher?
Orion: No, I'm up top. I have Fly on myself.
Matt: Oh, that's right. Sorry. Yeah. All right, so.
Orion: Yeah, I just let a Fireball down on the brain.
Matt: Into the brain, all right. All right, so that's enough to get both of these guys. Go ahead and roll damage. And they both failed their save, so full damage.
Travis: Crush the nuts.
Ashley: Little brains.
Matt: I like that, good.
Orion: 40.
Matt: 40?
Laura: Whoa!
Ashley: Yeah!
Matt: Those incinerate. And 40 points of damage to the Elder Brain as this giant echoing explosion blasts up from below. All of you at the top, you are underlit momentarily from the flash of red and yellow flame. As you look down, there's now a sizzling sound and this like smell of horrible burnt flesh as part of the Elder Brain now that was originally dehydrated is now also burnt and singed. You can see now, it's looking a little rougher and it's very very unhappy with its current circumstance.
Laura: I want to kill it before we leave now.
Matt: All right. Pike, go ahead and make a saving throw.
Marisha: Come on, Pike!
Laura: Why a saving throw?
Matt: Still trying to get rid of the stun.
Laura: Oh, right.
Matt: So intellect saving throw.
Ashley: 16?
Matt: 16. You shrug off the effect--
Ashley: Yeah! Man. Thanks, Keyleth. Much better now.
Marisha: New dice!
Sam: What? I've been doing it wrong this whole time.
Ashley: Can I do anything, or that's my turn?
Matt: That's your turn.
Orion: My movement, by the way is I head to the beach.
Sam: You're ghosting?
Orion: Yes.
Matt: You just get the fuck out of Dodge, Tiberius is that way.
Ashley: Wait, where do we go? Nobody's taking us?
Laura: No, you've got to hop on the carpet when it comes up.
Ashley: Oh, okay, got it.
Marisha: Classic Tiberius.
Taliesin: All right, here's a question  can everybody still fly?
Matt: Vax?
Orion: As long as I'm thinking about it.
Liam: Well I'm still sitting, still kneeling on the flying carpet with Percy, so I'm just throwing daggers at the bacon brain.
Matt: Okay. They're at disadvantage at this distance.
Liam: Okay. So that means, aw man, 17 on the first.
Matt: 17? (ricochet sound) Reflected, deflected by the arcane shield on the brain.
Liam: All right, so then the second one does as well, and the last one definitely does, so.
Matt: Yeah, so all three just (ping, ping, ping).
Taliesin: Take the wheel!
Matt: As it gets more and more damaged, it's waking up more and more and it looks like it's actually gaining power the more it does.
Liam: Okay, and then Percy yelled in my ear, so I take some of the little carpet tassels.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. So as your movement, you manage to move the carpet all the way up, it swoops up into the center of--
Laura: Grab the gnomes!
Matt: This right here. You guys are all looking precariously at this carpet that is now floating up from the center of the temple. As you get to the top, you look over and you can see there's probably close to 20 mind flayers that are swarming up the side. That brings us to, Vax, Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: All right, I pull out Bad News. And I'm going to lie down on my stomach, hanging off the edge of the carpet.
Sam: Hanging brain!
Taliesin: And I'm taking a shot straight down.
Matt: Okay. I'll say it takes you your--
Taliesin: My movement.
Matt: Movement to get it out. So you're there, you're unable to move the carpet, you pull the Bad News out, you get down, you're precariously off the side of it, and it is sagging as your weight touches it, you get ready, go ahead and fire.
Taliesin: Firing a deadshot.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Oh, come on.
Taliesin: That's 18.
Matt: As you fire, the blast sends you up almost onto your feet on the carpet again, and you hear this impact sound, this (crash) of the blast hitting stone as the psychic field around it deflects the bullet, sending it into the ground.
Laura: I thought 18 was the number that we were aiming for-- shit.
Taliesin: Wait, did I have an inspiration dice from last-- fuck.
Orion: You did.
Taliesin: I did have an inspiration dice from last game! I did! What do you give people with it?
Sam: d10.
Taliesin: d10? Oh fuck, that's right.
Orion: Can he add it now?
Matt: Yeah, I'll trust you on that.
Taliesin: I did! I did, because I'm always excited when I get them, because I never get them.
Matt: That's true, okay, yeah. All right. Go ahead and roll for that.
Taliesin: 21!
Matt: That'll do it.
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Matt: As the brain continues to wake up, it improves its defenses, improves its capabilities--
Laura: Oh, I understand.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: But that will hit. So go ahead and roll damage on that.
Taliesin: Okay.
Orion: It's Hulking?
Matt: Essentially. So as you release the blast, it hits the psychic field, the first impact you hear is it hitting the psychic field and pushing through into the actual brain matter.
Marisha: Come on!
Taliesin: Let me double-check that I'm doing this right, hold on, deadshot's weird. Plus weapon damage. Okay, so that's eight, nine, ten, 11, 12, 13... 25 points of damage.
Matt: 25 points of damage. Boom! You see the section of it that's kinda charred and burned gets blown off, and now there's a corner of the brain that's just an open and gaping wound. The purplish glow on the inside is pulsing more and more angrily. It's taken a beating, but it's hanging in there.
Taliesin: Oh my god!
Marisha: Will not die.
Matt: This is, you guys have left a good mark on it. You get the sensation, with the swarming incoming, you may start to consider self-preservation, because the Elder Brain looks like it's taken some hits, but it's not on death's door yet.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Marisha: Let's get out.
Laura: We need to go.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Scanlan is up?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: We're out of here?
Taliesin: We need everybody to hop on the carpet first.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: You're hopping up?
Sam: No, I'm going to turn into a huge pterodactyl and carry some folks.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: What?
Laura: You can do that?
Sam: Sure, why not?
Marisha: He's got Polymorph.
Travis: Yeah, turn into a batwing.
Matt: Cool, so we'll say for the time being, we'll use this as Scanlan.
Sam: Great.
Matt: You are a giant pterodactyl, a creature that you've read in books in the past, you haven't actually seen in person. And what are you doing?
Sam: Who can I carry?
Matt: You can carry one person with your claws. You haven't used this form before, and this is you figuring it out, so pick one and you can take them with you.
Sam: I'm going to take someone heavy.
Liam: Grog.
Matt: Grog can fly.
Laura: I can fly on Trinket, yeah, everybody's covered, man.
Sam: There's only one person I can take.
Matt: As the pterodactyl Scanlan swoops down and both its claws grapple on your arms and lift you off the top of the temple, flying after Tiberius.
Taliesin: How do you make that weird?
Matt: All right, so they're now out of harm's way. Very top of the round, that brings us to Grog. Still carrying Kima under your arm.
Travis: We're getting out, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: So I don't have to worry, so up and out.
Matt: So you just awkwardly fly with Kima under your arm, off with the rest of the group.
Liam: (sings) Sweet bird of prey, fly, fly away.
Sam: (sings) Up, up, and away, I'm a beautiful pterodactyl.
Matt: We'll get these guys off the board here because you do have two Illithid that get up to the edge here. They're going to attempt a Mind Blast.
Liam: We're gone, man, we're gone!
Laura: Not yet.
Matt: Still holding back. So--
Liam: I jump up to get out of range.
Matt: That can just get Trinket and Vex, if you can go ahead and make an intelligence saving throw for both of you.
Liam: Don't fuck with my sister.
Orion: Trinket and Vex are still there?
Laura: Yeah. I know, I didn't get to--
Sam: They never flew.
Laura: I know, I didn't use the movement on the last turn.
Matt: Nope.
Laura: I just didn't say it because I'm an asshole.
Sam: You are.
Liam: What kind of saving throw?
Matt: Intelligence.
Sam: Intelligence.
Laura: Ten? On me.
Matt: Okay. Roll for Trinket.
Liam: You rolled nine, plus two is 11.
Laura: Oh. Okay. 11.
Matt: So go ahead and roll for Trinket.
Laura: Oh! I rolled a nine, plus two, plus two.
Liam: For what?
Laura: For my ring that I'm wearing.
Liam: Okay.
Laura: So whatever that was.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 13.
Liam: 13.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: For me.
Matt: And roll for Trinket.
Laura: Which is going to be a major fail because Trinket is the dumbest. (laughter)
Sam: Don't talk about Trinket like that.
Travis: Is he the dumbest?
Laura: No, that's a minus four. So that would be a nine for Trinket.
Matt: Nine for Trinket.
Laura: Who is, by the way, my only way to get out of here right now.
Matt: So communally, both you and Trinket freeze in place, and Trinket, who is flying, slumps onto the top of the temple, limply laying across the edge, about to tip over off the temple.
Sam: (whispering) Told you we should've left Trinket behind.
Matt: That ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: A lot of Sandmen in there.
Marisha: Well first and foremost I'm going to get on the carpet.
Matt: Okay. So you leap up here with these guys.
Marisha: Secondly, I am going to-- Okay, wait, Trinket's stunned?
Matt: Trinket is currently catatonic (moans), just barely holding herself right there. You can see she's struggling with the flight spell, like she's kind of levering herself into the ground--
Laura: Trinket's a boy.
Matt: Him, sorry. I was thinking of you.
Laura: If he's about to die, at least get his gender right.
Matt: I apologize, Trinket. I'm sorry.
Marisha: Wait, shove him?
Taliesin: Shove him onto the carpet.
Marisha: No, I can't shove him.
Sam: Wait, he's floating.
Marisha: Okay, can I do this? Okay, here's what I'm going to do. I'm on the carpet. I'm going to cast Grasping Vine from the carpet and wrap around Trinket and have a Trinket tow vine.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Like the Macy's Day parade!
Matt: So as you leap onto the carpet, you reach down, and the fibrous nature that the carpet was originally made from, you manage to pull the essence of that out to create a vine of similarly patterned color of the actual magic carpet material. The various silks form into this tendril that wraps around both you and Trinket and pulls you guys hanging behind the carpet, so you guys are essentially now towed to the carpet.
Marisha: Let's go!
Orion: Can she take control of the carpet, too?
Marisha: Can I now use the rest of my movement to be like--
Matt: You currently do not have control of the carpet because you used your action and everything to use that spell and your concentration at that point.
Marisha: Okay, I'm just holding.
Matt: You're just holding them there. That brings us to Tiberius, you're off, flying off. Pike is off, Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm steering us the fuck outta here, man.
Matt: You tow Trinket and Vex out behind. As you guys pull off at full speed, the rest of the illithid swarm to the top, you can see about 15 or so get to the front top here, look down at the Elder Brain, look up at the rest of you with this angry look, and as you're pulling away, your eyes adjust to the darkness of the cavern and you look down and you swear you can see hundreds and hundreds of sets of purple glowing eyes just staring up from the city as you all slowly fly away to the far end of the cavern. As you're moving, so are the eyes.
Laura: (sings) We've made some enemies. They're coming after us.
Orion: I want to make a note, because I'm way ahead of everybody at this point, as soon as I land on the beach, I cast Circle of Teleportation.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Barring that there's nobody there, but I do that immediately.
Matt: All right, so. A few minutes go by, you guys are moving past and over the water channel that's between the north side of the island and the beach where you guys previously set. (laughter)
Matt: As Tiberius, you land on the dirt. You land, immediately begin casting the Circle of Teleportation, you begin scrawling this circle on the ground, running your finger across the gravel surface to build the runes. As your fingers drag across, you can see the arcane light beginning to glow and form the sigils and the runes as you're drawing them feverishly. The rest of the group eventually catches up to you about 30 seconds into it. As you all eventually get back, you and Trinket manage to shrug off the effect. And you find yourselves halfway through being towed by this vine awkwardly.
Laura: What is happening right now?
Marisha: Stupid wrench.
Matt: A few seconds pass, you finish the incantation, you place your hand down on the center of the sigil, this wave of arcane energy blasts off, and suddenly, above this circle, this tearing sound pulls out of the middle of the ether, and this kind of purple shimmering doorway opens above the circle sigil that he crafted on the side of the beach.
Orion: By the blessings of Bahamut, I choose Emon!
Matt: At which point, the doorway that he just created takes some sort of a solid form and from what you can see on the other side, there appears to be some sort of low-lit room.
Liam: Greyskull!
Laura: (gasps) Greyskull!
Orion: I run right through.
Matt: All right. Tiberius runs through. Everyone else?
All: Yes!
Sam: Are we there?
Matt: You guys have all landed on the beach as he finished casting this, yeah.
Laura: Run!
Marisha: Run!
Matt: You all rush through the portal, one after the other, towards the very end is Grog, you bringing up the rear, holding Kima, you go rushing towards it as it begins to slowly close, this only lasts a round, you barrel through just in time as it closes behind you with a sparking sound.
Taliesin: We are time bandits. (cheering)
Travis: Oh, fuck. I just caked my pants.
Taliesin: Squish-squish.
Laura: I hate that phrase.
Orion: That was something, now, wasn't it?
Taliesin: That was fantastic.
Travis: Chocolate cake.
Matt: You all emerge within a small 20-foot-by-20-foot white stone chamber. You all are kinda crammed in this space currently, but you are all apparently safe and sound. As the doorway closes behind you, you turn and look, and on the ground there is a similar circle across the stone flooring, different patterns, different, you know, arrangement to the one that he had drawn, but with some similarities that are kind of a reminiscent glow, almost like a code to this circle, fade away, based on what he had drawn previously.
Laura: They won't be able to open that back up?
Orion: We are safe.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Just a quick request  she is made of stone. Holding Lady Kima.
Ashley: Yes! I'll go over and cast Greater Restoration on Kima.
Orion: Hold on just one second.
Travis: Hold on.
Orion: We still have the Horn to deal with.
Taliesin: The Horn is on the carpet. It has been specifically not touched.
Matt: So it's just kind of sitting there. The carpet's bunched to the side now as you guys kind of flew into the portal and kind of left it there and the Horn's just resting there.
Orion: I think we should get it out of her view before--
Taliesin: I think we should put it in the Bag of Holding.
Travis: Sure, yeah. Do you want to teleport it in the bag?
Ashley: If your crushing couldn't kill it, the thousand pounds?
Orion: We can store it there.
Liam: Where are we? You said we're in a room.
Matt: It's a small yellow room, sorry, a small white stone room and there is a kind of yellowish brown stone doorway that is closed. There's some very faint white orbs that are locked into the wall. So you're not in Greyskull Keep now.
Marisha: Oh, we're not in Greyskull.
Matt: You guys don't have a teleportation circle installed in your Keep yet. You don't know where you are.
Sam: We're in a room right now?
Matt: You're in a room, you're in a 20-foot-by-20-foot room, with two small white orbs on the sides that are kinda set into the walls to give off a faint white arcane glow. There's a single doorway that exits the room that is currently closed.
Orion: The way Circle of Teleportation works is when I learned it I get to pick two locations that I know innately. I picked Emon as one of them.
Laura: Oh, okay. Okay.
Marisha: So we're somewhere in Emon.
Orion: But I just had to pick the two.
Marisha: So we could be in someone's living room right now?
Orion: I'll use Telekinesis to lift the Horn off the carpet.
Matt: Okay. You still have the spells?
Orion: Yeah, I can burn one from my Ioun stone.
Laura: Should we wrap it at all?
Taliesin: It'll be fine in the Bag of Holding.
Liam: Not knowing what else to do, Vax is going to go to the door and just inspect it, see if it's trapped.
Matt: Roll a perception check.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24. All right, the door does appear to be locked. It is not trapped.
Liam: Not trapped. Okay, I'll get to work on it, then. 32.
Matt: Okay, 32. You, relatively easy, the door comes unlocked, the small, it's like a very very intricately carved brass handle that has swirls upon it, like it's almost like a burst of wind being blown and frozen in gold. You turn it and the door opens slightly.
Liam: Pull up, I'm still wearing my tin hat and I pull up my hood from my elven cloak, and I go stealth. And I am stealthed, because that's a 32. And I have a look around outside the door.
Matt: Okay. As you open the doorway, it leads into a secondary chamber. This is an 80-foot-diameter circular chamber now, so you're entering the edge of a giant circle. There are a series of other doors, almost in respective rows next to each other, and you also see, in the center of the room, a vibrant chandelier made of white crystal like the spheres you saw in the previous room you were in, giving off a warm, atmospheric glow to the entire room. In the center of the room, there is a semi-circle desk that is also made of a similar white stone material that the rest of the room is made out of, with polished gold leaf trimming on the edge, and you do see what looks to be an elven man sitting at the desk, longish gray-white hair, he's wearing robes that are finely dressed, and he's half-falling asleep at a desk with a series of books kind of piled up on the side. As soon as the doorway opens, he looks up, and you hear a slight little arcane tinging sound, like a little bell being rung, as you open the door. He looks up for a second.
Laura: Say hello.
Liam: Yes yes yes. I just walk forward and pull down the cloak and say, "Hello."
Matt: "Stay right where you are! Do not move!"
Liam: Hands up in the air.
Matt: "Do not move!"
Liam: Nothing in them. No threat, no danger here. A little lost, apparently.
Matt: "Apparently."
Liam: Yes.
Matt: "Who else is in, who else goes there? Who else, please, step outside! Reveal yourselves!"
Liam: They're--
Laura: Hi!
Marisha: Hi.
Ashley: Hello.
Sam: (pterodactyl screech)
Matt: As soon as he sees you, he goes, (screams).
Orion: I cast Dispel Magic on Scanlan.
Sam: Do you have it anymore?
Orion: Yeah, I do.
Sam: You just did it to me earlier in this round.
Orion: No, Counterspell, and I Silenced you, this is Dispel Magic, which ends your spell.
Matt: Okay. (laughs)
Sam: Oh. Hello.
Matt: So as you cast the spell and transform, he stops in the middle of casting a spell reflexively and goes, "Oh. And a bear. Interesting."
Orion: He's friendly.
Sam: He's real.
Liam: I have a very long, very strange story, every word of which is true, and if you will give me five minutes, I swear I can convince you--
Matt: He opens a book and starts thumbing through the pages.
Liam: No ill intent. Intent? Yes.
Matt: "We have no expected arrivals at this hour. I need to know your business, your names, and your affiliations immediately."
Marisha: We will totally do that when we know--
Laura: We are affiliated with the king.
Liam: Yeah, emperor. Just tell the emperor that Vox Machina has returned from Kraghammer, and we have news for him, and--
Matt: "Well."
Laura: We were on very secret business for the crown, actually. And that is why you weren't informed of our business.
Orion: Yeah, I'm Tiberius Stormwind. How are you?
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Did you wink?
Orion: I'm responsible for casting the spell to get us here to begin with.
Laura: (laughs) With advantage.
Liam: Yes.
Laura: That would be a 20-- no. 35.
Matt: All right. He looks to you, as you guys are saying, he--
Laura: That's not possible. 25.
Matt: 25. (laughter)
Matt: He stands up from the desk and gives you all a look-over and says, "Well, I am Gatekeeper Xanthas, I am the evening keeper of the Traverse Junction here in the-- it's the Traverse Junction."
Orion: Gatekeeper?
Matt: "Here within the Lyceum. The hour is late. We are two hours past midnight."
Taliesin: Well, I am Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III, and, hello, and we would love to report to the emperor of your great hospitality at this unfortunately early hour, and we would look forward to reporting of all of your kindness and good housekeeping.
Liam: I imagine he would be very upset if we were delayed. We come with very grave news.
Taliesin: I would hope not to imagine it.
Matt: "Well. I'm certain the Headmaster would like to know your business in the morning."
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "Headmaster Thurmond. He runs this Alabaster Lyceum within the Erudite Quarter. If you would please submit a report for your reasons for using the Lyceum Junction property by tomorrow, I'm sure that would suffice for the required paperwork."
Laura: Of course we will.
Taliesin: You are too kind.
Laura: In the meantime, we'll just go to our Keep that we have in town.
Orion: Greyskull Keep.
Matt: Gives you a very, a disbelieving look and kinda goes, "Very well."
Taliesin: Good day, good evening.
Sam: I cast Friends on him and I tell him, "You know of our Keep, don't you?"
Matt: Okay. He goes, "I seem to recall hearing about a Vox Machina at some point discussed, but I don't get out very often. Running the graveyard shift here at the Lyceum has taken its toll on my social life."
Laura: You poor thing, you should get out more.
Matt: "Well here, let me show you out." And he walks you through the rest of the hallways. It's a beautiful, beautiful kind of domed center chamber into a long series of white stone hallways, similar material to what the first room you arrived in looked like. Eventually to a main foyer area, which has a very high ceiling and a series of beautifully carved pillars that show different creatures, almost like devas and demons battling each other as they spiral up these pillars, to the front doorways. There are two guards that are adorned in kinda silver and gold armor with these very high, elven in design-shaped helmets, and they step to the side as the doors open on their own.
Laura: Love the hat.
Matt: Guards do not respond to you whatsoever, they just step to the side. Gatekeeper says, "All right, well, here is your way out, have a wonderful evening and do please return for your report on the morrow."
Laura: Of course.
Sam: Oh, one more question before you leave, what district are we in right now?
Matt: "The Erudite Quarter."
Sam: Thank you.
Travis: Gesundheit.
Matt: "Good night." The doors slam (boof) behind you as you guys exit, and you're now--
Laura: Holy shit, we survived! What was that?
Marisha: Oh my god! Keyleth just goes down on her knees and starts kissing the ground.
Taliesin: Well, that could've gone worse.
Marisha: Oh, we're home.
Ashley: I just want to get in my bed so bad.
Marisha: Look! Stars!
Matt: You look up and, for the first time in close to a week, you can see stars, you can see a crescent moon, probably just past its single quarter phase. It is a sight for sore eyes right now.
Ashley: I'm so happy.
Travis: Would you say it's a beautiful sight?
Matt: Currently? The most beautiful night sky you've seen in all of your years.
Travis: I ruin it with a fart. (laughter)
Orion: I'm glad you held that the whole time we were down there, Grog.
Travis: I've had horrible stomach pains this whole time, I'm sorry.
Laura: What, are we just carrying around this stone Kima with us, or are we taking her back to our--
Liam: Yes, but don't stand right in front of her when you undo the stone.
Orion: Actually, hold on a minute, let's all rest before we deal with this one.
Travis: Yes.
Ashley: No, because I want to be able to have an extra 5th-level spell.
Travis: Oh, right.
Laura: But we're in town now, so we're safe.
Ashley: Yeah, let's go to the Keep.
Laura: Yeah, so it'll be fine.
Ashley: Yeah.
Sam: It's a long way. We've got to go across the whole town to get there.
Laura: Well, we've got a fucking flying carpet.
Sam: We do have a flying carpet.
Taliesin: The metro's running at this hour.
Liam: We can probably flag down a wagon, too.
Laura: Yeah, we're in town!
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Fuck it. Everything's possible.
Taliesin: Let's go drinking.
Marisha: I was going to say, what bars are open?
Liam: We've got a lot of bling and a cursed Horn. The sky's the limit.
Ashley: I know, should we go to a tavern and get some ale?
Sam: What, who are you?
Travis: Really? You mean it?
Ashley: Well what do you mean, do I mean it?
Travis: It's all empty, can we fill it please?
Ashley: It's all empty?
Marisha: We should get some ale. Wait, maybe we should drop off the Bag of Holding so we're not carrying it around.
Travis: And the stone gnome.
Marisha: And then go out drinking.
Liam: We don't want to lose it in a game of cards.
Marisha: Yes, exactly. Exactly.
Travis: And stone Kima.
Sam: We'll be fine, we've never lost it before. There's eight of us, we'll be fine, let's go drinking.
Ashley: How far is the Keep from here?
Matt: I'd say it's probably a good hour walk.
Marisha: Oh, we've got time.
Taliesin: We could do a pub crawl, we'll just have a beer at every pub we hit on the way back to the Keep.
Marisha: Yes, let's do that! Pub crawl!
All: Pub crawl!
Marisha: We're going to pub crawl back to the Keep.
Liam: Starting here at Geek & Sundry.
Ashley: But should I go just in a bush just behind and--
Sam: Do you have to pee or something?
Ashley: No, and cast Greater Restoration on Kima?
All: No!
Sam: We want to enjoy this.
Orion: She doesn't have a sense of time, she won't know.
Sam: Or humor.
Travis: Let's put her in the bag. She's made of stone!
Laura: We won't tell her how much time has passed.
Taliesin: We'll un-stone her once we're back at the Keep.
Travis: She's stone. Stone doesn't breathe. Right?
Taliesin: It'll be fine.
Sam: We don't know.
Laura: Do not put her in the Bag of Holding! Do not. (laughter)
Liam: For the record, I think she'd be fine, too. But we could bring her around and introduce her; it could be like Weekend at Bernie's. (laughter)
Travis: Ah, yes! I put a fancy robe around Kima's stone statue.
Laura: This is so messed up.
Matt: All right, so as you guys begin making your celebratory pub crawl, starting with the Laughing Lamia Tavern, you buy drinks, laugh, chatter, and kind of take in the lively atmosphere that you would find at 3AM. Which is a little, at this point most of the fun folk are pretty drunk, but at this point you don't care, you'll take your own, and we'll take a quick five-minute break to use the bathroom and we'll pick up from there in just a moment, we'll see you guys here in five minutes to continue.
Travis: We lived!
Marisha: We lived!
Matt: Holy shit, guys.
Orion: I was fine. [dramatic music]
Travis: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (chuckle) (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and (chuckle) shiny things! Also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this-- well, this terrified little thing. And his disobedience cost him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die, exiled from his herd. It was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for lady favors. Also ale!
Marisha: A first impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. (chuckle) Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder) Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally! (soft chuckle) Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader to be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself, not knowing when, or if, she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays on repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attentions to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gunshot)
Ashley: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream: a dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal though divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were the best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time, Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. (roar, crunch) After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Sam: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter and joined Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he learned the ways of the world and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down, Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood, unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia. From a politically respected family, at the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time.
Matt: Welcome back. We got a little refresher here and apparently our Overlord has an announcement.
Zac: You guys, we're only four away from another giveaway, which is--
Lucas: Two away!
Zac: Two away, you know what, I'm guessing this is, we're going to get that before I even get back to my seat, so we're going to go do the giveaway. It's the shirt, the dice, the handbook, and the starter set. The handbook and the shirt will be signed by the cast.
Matt: Yep.
Zac: And we still have, if we get to 400, correct, next? Lucas?
Lucas: Yeah. 3,400.
Matt: 3,400.
Zac: If we get to 3,400 by the end of the night, we'll give away a whole other kit like this, with the signed stuff, so you get to subscribe and it supports the channel, keeps us running. I'm not going to interrupt these guys, so when we hit the number I'm just going to give it away through the chat room.
Matt: Awesome, guys. Well done and congrats to whoever ends up getting that, real fast I hope. So, thank you Overlord.
Taliesin: Oh wait, this is in here. Can I throw this? Oh no.
Matt: Pass it off, it's fine.
Taliesin: You get the horn.
Laura: Can I hold it for a second?
Travis: No.
Orion: No. Oh, I mean in real life. Yeah.
Marisha: No.
Orion: I was like, don't touch it.
Matt: So. Eventually you all manage to make your way towards the outer wall of Emon to the southern portion of the city. The guards let you through. Two of them recognize you from the Winter's Crest celebration that occurred about seven months beforehand. Don't do that, that's going to end poorly. You make your way around the bend to the large grass hill that is surrounded by the river that skirts the outer southern portion of Greyskull Keep. Looking up, you can see against the moonlight the very welcome sight of your home there, beckoning to you to rest. You make your way to the front gates that surround the outskirts of it, and an iron bell kind of goes off for a second, and as you look up, you hear a voice go, "Who goes there? Speak your mind, or a bolt to the throat you'll find."
Marisha: Shayne, is that Shayne?
Orion: Is it dark right now?
Matt: It's dark, yes.
Orion: I cast Light. "It's us!"
Matt: Okay, a light pierces off, and you guys look up and you can see, sitting on kind of the watchtower perch--
Marisha: Or wait, is that Jarett?
Matt: No, you see up there, short, rough red hair, Shayne Tranter, one of the mercenaries you hired--
Marisha: Oh, it is Shayne, I was right the first time!
Matt: She's got her crossbow ready to go, and she's just kind of sitting back and pointing it at the group, and she goes,
Liam: Hello! Hi!
Laura: Hope you remember us!
Marisha: Shayne!
Taliesin: We're drunk!
Sam: We pay you!
Matt: She laughs. Takes her crossbow, sets it to her side.
Ashley: We forgot our key!
Matt: "Well, aren't you a sight for sore eyes? It's been nearly a week since you left."
Laura: That's it?
Sam: Feels like a month.
Ashley: Feels like three months.
Taliesin: Feels like eleven weeks. It feels like a very long time.
Matt: "Well, it's probably closer to two weeks. Fair enough. Either way. Open the gates! Cordell, open the gates!"
Sam: Cordell? I don't remember the names of any of our guards.
Matt: Cordell, he's one of the other half-orc guards that you hired when you left.
Marisha: We have Shayne, Cordell, Jarett, Kendrick, and Nitebe.
Laura: Jarett was the one we appointed as the head guard, right? Captain?
Marisha: Jarett? I think so. I didn't write that part down.
Laura: I don't remember about the little fellow.
Sam: Our staff is so unappreciated, guys.
Matt: So as the gate slowly opens, Cordell walking out, this is the hearty half-orc merc dressed in scale armor, and he has a large sword slung on his back, just shoves it open to about a two-foot distance. "Come on. Welcome home." As each of you guys walk through, he kinda claps you on the back as you walk in. You make your way into the small courtyard leading to-- making your way into Greyskull Keep. Towards the front door, as you get there, the front door opens on its own as you're about ten feet away and peering from the inside of the low-lit interior you see a woman's face, a plump blond woman's face, peek through. This is Laina. Laina goes, "Oh, you're back, fantastic! It's early." And she rubs her face and you see as she pushes the door open a little more, she's wearing her nightgown, and she's excited but still very tired. "Come in, come in, come in, please, please! Who's that?" And points to the large stone statue you're dragging behind you.
Laura: Oh, we decided to get a statue for the garden.
Taliesin: Garden gnome.
Matt: "Very well, very well, come in."
Ashley: Hey! (laughter)
Travis: He's drunk.
Taliesin: I'm drunk!
Matt: So the human woman leads you all back in.
Laura: Put the gun down, Percy.
Ashley: Bad News.
Liam: It's not Cinco de Mayo.
Matt: She steps back with her knitted boots; she's definitely in comfortable mode. She eagerly hugs each of you as you enter, happy that you've all arrived, she's like, "I swear it's-- I've not had an employer leave so quickly after my hiring. But glad to see you're all safe. Shall I make everyone a meal, are you hungry?"
Marisha: Starving.
Travis: Yes.
Matt: "I'll get right to it." And she turns around, and you see further down the hallway Erwen Dastell, your older halfling servant who shuffles up with his nightcap on, it's long and dangling off his shoulders, he's got this long night robe on, he's kinda carrying a small candle. "My goodness. The hour is late of your arrival, but I can't say I am not excited to see you. Come in, your beds are ready, everything's been cleaned and made to your specifications. Laina! To food!" "I'm already on it, Erwen." She kinda smacks him on the back. He says, "Very well, then."
Sam: I love their banter.
Laura: Yeah, they're so cute.
Matt: "I will go back to bed, if that's fine with you."
Sam: Is there any urgent, oppressing news, any visitors that we should know about who came while we were gone, anything before you retire for the evening?
Matt: "No, I believe your friend, the mage woman with the blue robes came by once."
Sam: Allara?
Matt: "Allura. She came by a couple days ago, just to see if you had returned. But I didn't know where you were, and she said she'd try again later."
Sam: Any packages, mail, post?
Matt: "None that I know of, no. In fact it's been very quiet."
Sam: All right, thank you.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: Quiet is good.
Matt: "Back to my quarters." And he shuffles off, goes towards his bed. You guys make your way into the main dining chamber of your Keep, four large round tables set out with the chairs around it. You can see, for the most part, it's been untouched other than a couple of chairs that are set ajar, probably by your mercenary soldiers who've been eating and/or have been keeping up. There's a couple of empty tables set on the side that immediately Laina goes, "I'm so sorry, I guess I should've taken care of this." And she stumbles off towards the kitchen and you guys all eventually find yourselves sitting, sore, exhausted, mildly intoxicated, around these chairs and take a very deep-breathing sigh of relief at being back home here in Emon in Greyskull Keep.
Sam: Should we un-stone Kima, or should we sleep on it?
Orion: I stand up and I head towards the sleeping quarters and I just say, "Leave her to stone tonight, we'll deal with it tomorrow." And I go to bed.
Sam: I turn him into a rat.
Liam: Dispel Magic.
Matt: Go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw, Tiberius.
Orion: Hold on a sec. I can still cast as an animal, right?
Sam: Nope.
Matt: Nope, you cannot talk.
Orion: Oh. I still go to bed. (laughter)
Orion: So yeah.
Travis: Hoo baby.
Laura: That's adorable.
Matt: You go under your covers, go to sleep, nuzzle in.
Orion: In between my pillow.
Marisha: It's quite comfy sleeping like an animal.
Ashley: He's a little rat and he still went in his big bed.
Liam: I pick up the sleeping rat and just kinda scritch him.
Laura: He's in bed.
Liam: It's all right, he's fine. Look, see, his leg's going, he's dreaming about something nice.
Travis: We ate already, right?
Matt: You snacked a bit as you made it through the town, but for the most part like, a meal's being prepared. You begin to smell now the cooking of meat, Laina's setting it up for you guys.
Liam: You're dreaming of magical artifacts, aren't you?
Laura: Quick question, friends  So we kind of started a war, am I right?
Liam: Yeah. Pretty sure we did.
Laura: Kraghammer is potentially in grave danger, am I right?
Marisha: We might want to let them know.
Laura: We should probably let them know as soon as possible.
Liam: First of all, Clarota was lying through his noodles, and second, even if he wasn't, which he was, he's now fucking pissed off--
Laura: He's dead.
Liam: Well, they're all one hive-mind, right? Listen. This is number five tonight.
Taliesin: They weren't particularly connected until the very end, he was dead before they were actually connected.
Liam: They're angry. They were following us.
Taliesin: They may not know who we are.
Marisha: That's interesting.
Liam: You don't think they're going to scurry up the bottom of Kraghammer and tear that place apart?
Taliesin: We'll let them know, but we may have time, we hurt them very badly.
Liam: It took us about a week to get from Kraghammer in, so we've got about a week.
Marisha: Well, why don't we do some research, I mean, this was the first time.
Sam: Yeah, we'd have to stop them on the way out the hole, right? There's only one way in and out.
Ashley: Don't the dwarves already know that they were there, and they were already prepping for battle?
Sam: They don't really know what's coming for them.
Liam: They don't know anything about mind flayers, they know about weird things coming out, but not the mind flayers.
Travis: So let's send a pigeon or something.
Taliesin: The mind flayers have been down there for ages. There's nothing new.
Laura: You don't think they'll come up and attack?
Marisha: To be fair, we also did sort of release the mind flayers from their evil dictator.
Liam: Yeah, they seemed very grateful.
Sam: We could stop them on their way out.
Taliesin: I think this will also be a conversation that Lady Kima will have some--
Marisha: Okay, well, the thing we then need to immediately decide, before we un-stone Lady Kima, is what're we going to do with the Horn?
Taliesin: I think if we have Allura here, and begin that conversation, then we can have Allura's insight.
Marisha: Before we un-stone Lady Kima?
Taliesin: Yes. I think we tell Allura before we un-stone Lady Kima. Everything that's happened--
Liam: The only person, the only person that would remotely know is you, Tiberius, and I don't think--
Sam: He's a rat.
Liam: Oh, that's a good boy.
Travis: And he's asleep.
Liam: He didn't seem to know anything, I think Allura is the person to go to right now.
Laura: Well, you need to share it with us.
Ashley: Wake up from bed!
Travis: He's sleeping.
Taliesin: No, let's wait until Allura's here, I think, and we can--
Travis: Do we tell her, do we tell her we have the Horn? Or do we not?
Liam: Yes, yes, we do.
Marisha: Why don't we just wake up Tiberius?
Laura: Tiberius. Little darling!
Sam: I'm still punishing him.
Liam: I'm still cuddling him.
Orion: Did they wake me up?
Liam: No! I'm holding you.
Orion: Okay.
Liam: I don't want to wake you up.
Matt: You start to wake up, and then he scritches the side of your cheek and you go right back to sleep.
Laura: Damn it, he's so cute. I don't know what to do.
Matt: Laina comes out with plates for you guys and sets up these--
Travis: Thank. God.
Matt: They're not pretty, but functional meals of cooked pork, some fine mashed potatoes.
Travis: I would like to eat.
Matt: And you do ravenously, and this is the first warm meal you've really truly had in five, six days.
Travis: I take Lady Kima's portions and I--
Matt: There were no portions made for your garden structure.
Travis: Never know.
Matt: That's okay, there's plenty more.
Sam: So talk to Allura first, then unfreeze Lady Kima?
Liam: She sent us after Kima. Kima thinks that she's in the middle of a fight, the moment she comes out she'll be all hot and bothered--
Marisha: Okay, hang on, hang on. That's true, she did send us after Kima, so what if they're both on the side that we don't--
Travis: Yeah, Allura's going to unfreeze Kima.
Taliesin: We're going to have to trust somebody.
Travis: Why don't we just hold onto the Horn for a second and see what they do without it.
Laura: Why don't we tell them we didn't find it? Why don't we just hide the Horn?
Travis: We just hold onto it in the bag.
Marisha: Don't we have a safe? Didn't we build a safe in our Keep?
Matt: You did not have a safe built, but you could possibly have that done.
Ashley: Wait, so why are you guys so against giving the Horn to Kima?
Marisha: I just feel like if it's so terrible, why does she want it for herself?
Laura: She doesn't, she wants to hide it.
Ashley: Does she want to destroy it?
Laura: Maybe she wants to destroy it, maybe she wanted to get it up above ground so she could destroy it.
Sam: There's a second Horn, maybe she has the other one and wants the matching set.
Taliesin: Do we know that there's a second horn?
Laura: She's a paladin, she's good, paladins are good by--
Sam: I'm fine trusting her. I was fine trusting Clarota.
Travis: Do you want to wake up, do you have something important to say?
Marisha: Right, because no one of the church has ever been bad before.
Liam: We didn't trust Clarota. We were using him as much as he was using us.
Laura: Some of us truly trusted Clarota.
Liam: It went south. Well, most of us.
Travis: All right, fuck it, I walk over and I take the rat out of Vax's hands and I shake it awake.
Sam: He's still a rat!
Travis: I shake it a lot.
Marisha: I undo his Polymorph, I undo his Polymorph.
Sam: With what?
Matt: With what?
Marisha: By Polymorph.
Matt: You re-Polymorph him?
Marisha: Can I release Polymorph by using Polymorph?
Matt: No. It's his incantation.
Travis: I spit on Tiberius's head and rub it in vigorously.
Marisha: Scanlan, come on. We need to talk to him.
Orion: I'm trying to bite Grog. I am not happy.
Matt: It's like this viscous Grog spit mixed with chunks of pork and mashed potato rubbed in your fur.
Marisha: Scanlan, he's nipping! Scanlan. Tiberius is nipping. Please.
Sam: All right, fine. He's a human thing again.
Liam: He's not human at all.
Sam: A dragonborn.
Orion: Why did you wake me up? I was so comfy being furry! (laughter)
Orion: I always have scales. It was nice having fur!
Marisha: I told you. It's nice being cuddly.
Orion: I was so soft.
Laura: Tiberius, we're sorry to wake you.
Taliesin: Tiberius, we're having a lovely breakfast. Tell us a story.
Orion: Have I rested? What's going on?
Matt: No, it's been ten minutes.
Orion: What the fuck? (laughter)
Travis: Vex has a question for you.
Marisha: We're all still drunk and awake. We don't want to go to bed yet! Just, just talk with us.
Laura: I just want to hear your lovely little explanation, darling, about what the Horn is and why you don't trust Kima.
Orion: Oh!
Taliesin: Tell us a story.
Marisha: Tell us a story!
Laura: Please. You haven't told any of us anything.
Marisha: We haven't talked to you in a week.
Orion: The Horn of Orcus.
Matt: Horn of Orcus.
Orion: This thing comes from a devil, a demon. Nothing good could ever come from anything it made in existence. It needs to be destroyed. And I'm sorry. Let me articulate these words a little bit more. There is nothing that you can use this particular artifact for any reason of good. The fact that it is even here is a very bad sign because it was taken from one of these beasts.
Ashley: So why don't we destroy it?
Orion: That's exactly what we need to do.
Travis: Isn't that what Kima wanted?
Laura: What if they want to destroy it?
Orion: I don't think they wanted to bring it back.
Laura: Question. Why?
Orion: Because there is-- the liquid hot magma that was below where it was being held was very sufficient for it to be thrown in.
Marisha: That's true. See, I'm with him.
Laura: Wait, but your crushing fist couldn't destroy it, so maybe lava can't destroy it, so maybe it needs something extra special that only they know about.
Travis: It needs the Sword of Gryffindor.
Orion: No. Pike could destroy it.
Ashley: Ex-squeeze me? I don't think that's true.
Orion: Give yourself a little bit more credit. You killed a dragon.
Laura: You did kill a dragon.
Travis: You did kill a dragon.
Ashley: I did kill a dragon. Huzzah.
Marisha: And you died. And come back to life. By the way, we haven't talked about that. What was it like on the other side?
Travis: Let's stay on topic here.
Marisha: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm a little tipsy.
Liam: Vax shoves another flagon in front of Keyleth.
Ashley: I don't think I can destroy it.
Taliesin: From what I understand-- is it possible that it's not possible to destroy this and instead it has to be banished somewhere, perhaps?
Orion: No. If it could be a permanent banishment, yes. But we don't know what kind of plane and what creatures lie there that would, perhaps, come upon that artifact. What are the elements? Fire burns earth.
Laura: Wind blows.
Orion: Light destroys darkness. Pike, you're the only one who--
Sam: Rock beats scissors.
Orion: Exactly, Scanlan. You're the only one who could-- if your weapon had any kind of light enchantment on them, could probably smash this thing to bits. Then we would have to scatter the remnants, the pieces, far from each other, if not find different ways to destroy those pieces.
Laura: Why don't you trust them?
Orion: Because it comes from something that would--
Laura: Not the Horn. Why don't you trust Kima?
Orion: Because they wanted to bring it somewhere where they-- I don't know. Which is why I wanted you to do the half thing, where we could question Kima without her attacking us or trying to attempt to take the Horn from us.
Marisha: Well, here's my thing. Even if she has good intentions. Say she has good intentions and maybe they just wanted to bring the horn back to study it. And no one should be messing with this whatsoever.
Laura: I think they want to destroy it.
Taliesin: I'm of the opinion they probably want to banish it somewhere.
Travis: Yeah, I think they do.
Marisha: Then why don't we just agree to not hand it over.
Taliesin: No, this is good. This means that there's no reason, necessarily, not to trust them. We just know that we don't trust the Horn, and that's a perfectly reasonable way to come at it.
Liam: In the short term, Scanlan, are you able to send it to another dimension for a while?
Laura: No, I don't trust it anywhere out of our sight.
Sam: I cannot. It is not alive. I cannot.
Travis: Put it in the bag.
Laura: It's in the bag.
Taliesin: It's perfectly safe in the bag.
Travis: How about we rest, we put the Horn in the bag, we wake up Kima, we go, "Oh, we brought you back, sorry we don't have the Horn. If we did, what would you do with it?" And then we decide what we do.
Taliesin: I like half that plan.
Marisha: I kind of like that plan.
Orion: I like that plan, too.
Laura: I think we should tell her we didn't get it and see what she does.
Orion: Allura is somebody who should not be here when this conversation happens, because if they turn south, she's a more powerful sorcerer than I.
Marisha: We need to decide, do we tell her that we destroyed it, or do we tell her that we just didn't get it and that it's still down there.
Travis: We can't say destroyed because we don't know how we did that, right?
Laura: No, we didn't destroy it. We say, "Oh no, they, we got overrun and we had to leave."
Taliesin: But then they're going to tell us to go back for it.
Travis: That's fine, but if we ask like what she would've done if we had it, and when she leaves we go, "Hah, we have it."
Laura: Or we go, "Oh, well good, then actually we do have it, you can do that."
Travis: Yeah, if she wants to study it or use it or transform it into something, we don't give it to her, we try to destroy it ourselves. If she wants to banish it and do something that Tiberius is happy with, then we go like, "Hey, we have it."
Liam: When we meet her I don't think we should have it, I think one or two of us should take it away. We don't all have to be at that meeting.
Taliesin: I think we just keep it in the Bag of Holding, she'll never suspect.
Marisha: Well, hang on, it's in the Bag of Holding right now?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yes.
Orion: Grog, is there nothing else in that bag of holding?
Travis: Nothing it can, we took out all the stuff it can turn into some like evil transformer or something.
Liam: You know, the other characters can make insight checks too, you know that, right?
Matt: There's a pile somewhere with armor.
Travis: Everything has out with parentheses next to it.
Liam: If we have it, then she's, she could say you're lying--
Laura: Or she might not be able to tell because we're so good at lying. (laughter)
Liam: I don't think your winks will work on her.
Sam: Legitimately, no one can tell when I'm lying.
Marisha: I mean, we could Stone Shape it and I could like Stone Shape it and bury it somewhere in our Keep.
Travis: One person should leave with it. I'll leave with it.
Liam: Yes, it's fucking simple.
Taliesin: That's genius.
Travis: Yeah, I'll leave. It's not like I'm going to talk to the sorcerers.
Liam: You and I could take a walk with it and play tiddlywinks or something in the woods. That's fine, what's wrong with that, it's easy.
Taliesin: That's a very good plan.
Orion: Do you want it very far away?
Travis: Yeah, you're a talker, I'm not.
Taliesin: No, we don't.
Marisha: Wait. You're talking about just taking a stroll through the forest with the Horn of Orcus?
Travis: No, I'll just hang out outside.
Orion: In the Keep, how about just stay in the Keep?
Liam: Just be somewhere else. Anywhere else.
Ashley: You could hang out in the temple downstairs.
Laura: I fall asleep on the table.
Travis: Shall we sleep?
Sam: Let's sleep and meet with Kima in the morning.
Taliesin: This was a fabulous breakfast, good night.
Liam: Vax gives his sleeping sister a wet willie.
Laura: Ugh!
Travis: I put my head right in my food and fall asleep.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Let's not forget, you've still got a funny toe.
Sam: I check my bed to make sure no one shat in it. (laughter)
Orion: I did leave a little rat turd before I got scooped out. Just so you know.
Laura: Trinket, let's go to bed.
Marisha: I turn, I go Minxie and I curl up by the fire.
Travis: Yeah, Minxie!
Liam: Scanlan! Turn Tiberius back into a rat.
Orion: Oh yes, I'm going to bed.
Liam: Back into a rat.
Marisha: You can curl up with me.
Sam: Would you like to be a rat?
Orion: I like being furry.
Sam: Well then, no. I'm still punishing you. (laughter)
Orion: That's fine. Have your fun tonight, people, you will have your licking in the morning. I go to sleep.
Matt: All right. You guys all go to rest for the evening, the best rest you've had in a long time, your beds are comfortable, well set, it's a warm interior.
Ashley: I'm starfished on my bed.
Matt: This is the first time in a while that Pike, you've been able to sleep without your armor on, and it's so nice.
Laura: That's great.
Matt: You sleep hard, you sleep for an extended period, eventually you all begin to rouse, as you all wake up, the smell of fresh breakfast food is already coming to--
Laura: That and Pike's stank from her armor.
Matt: Yeah, you're going to have to wash that armor, girl.
Travis: It's like when you take a cast off, you're like, ugh.
Matt: It's bad.
Marisha: Actually, is there a bath house in the village?
Matt: You haven't inquired. You could ask around if you want.
Marisha: We should have a girls' day at the bath house.
Orion: I woke up and took a dirt bath.
Liam: You're not a rat, though.
Matt: Yeah. Oh, but he didn't transform you, though.
Orion: Huh?
Matt: He didn't transform you.
Orion: I know, in lizard form.
Sam: Gross.
Orion: In my form.
Taliesin: That's awesome.
Orion: Scales, you rub it off with clay?
Matt: Yeah, there you go. Out in the front of the Keep.
Laura: Gross!
Orion: I have a little dirt in my room.
Laura: A little pile of grossness.
Liam: We just don't fear for our lives for the first time.
Sam: Let's go down and have our meeting.
Matt: So you guys head down into the dining room again, Kima's still standing there with the maul, left where she was. Grog is still face-down like on the table, grabbed the plate up against his face with mashed potatoes across his cheek. Across the way at the far table, you see Cordell and Shayne are both finishing their breakfast, and are sitting there at the table with their arms kind of gathering as you enter. "Morning!" "Morning." And they both kind of finish their meal. Get up and stand up. "Enjoy your breakfast. You've earned it." "I think our shift is done." She pats Cordell and they both get up and they exit out.
Laura: Have a good night! I know, I know, but they're sleeping.
Travis: I start awake with food on my face and I wipe it off and eat it. "I had a horrible dream about two walking testicles that were hurting my mind."
Sam: That was no dream! (laughter)
Liam: I am so sad that you woke up. I was just about to go to the hearth and get some ash and draw a penis on your head.
Travis: I had a feeling something was coming.
Liam: Next thing out of my mouth, that's a promise.
Ashley: Where's the Bag of Holding?
Travis: I've got it.
Ashley: Can you check in your bag to see if the Horn is still there?
Laura: And it's okay?
Travis: I look in the bag of holding and I see a Horn?
Matt: You look in the bag and you see nothing. You imagine something, you reach in, you pull it out.
Taliesin: Don't do that.
Laura: How are we going to get it out of there?
Orion: I can.
Ashley: Can you tell if it's in there?
Sam: Can you teleport something out of a bag?
Orion: It's Telekinesis, I can picture it and--
Laura: Teleport it, can you pull it out and make sure it's still there and okay?
Matt: Okay. So you use Telekinesis, you lift the Horn out--
Orion: No, I don't do it. I'm assuming it's there. I'm not doing that right now.
Laura: Wait, no, check though, I want to make sure it's okay.
Orion: I'm pretty sure it's there.
Laura: But I want to make sure.
Sam: All right, I will check with Mage Hand or whatever, I got something else. Mage Hand, yeah, I'll Mage Hand it.
Matt: Mage Hand gently and slowly lifts it out, you can see the Horn kinda holds there for a second, it moves very slowly.
Travis: Yeah, put it back in.
Matt: Put it back in the bag.
Travis: Thank you, tie it up tight. I'm going to go down to the, what is it, the temple below the thingie?
Ashley: Okay, yeah, go down to the temple.
Travis: All right, I'm going to go play in the dark with myself. That sounded wrong.
Matt: Okay, so you head down into the temple to Sarenrae, which is beautiful, it's all like a giant two-story stained glass three-set walls with trees and hedges set up and flowers, bunch of wooden kind of long benches set up towards this, the altar in the center, it's beautiful, especially this time of day, it's close to noon right now so the sun's streaking through the top of it, and it's cascading through the tree boughs of the two trees that are closest to the entrance. It's a beautiful sight. Even you, Grog, are moved.
Travis: Just because I'm nervous, I reach into the Bag of Holding and pull out a vial of holy oil that I have. I have three vials of holy oil and I just hold it in one hand while I'm down there.
Matt: All right. So while he's down there, the rest of you guys, what're you doing?
Orion: I'm going to cast Circle of Teleportation in my room.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: No, I'm going to go to the treasury first, I'm going to take out 500 gold pieces, and then I'm going to go to my room and cast Circle of Teleportation.
Matt: Okay. Tiberius is gone.
Sam: Let's heal Kima.
Laura: You just left us?
Orion: By the blessing of Bahamut, I choose Draconia.
Matt: Tiberius is gone.
Ashley: Okay, so, I'm going to stand behind Kima and--
Taliesin: We're going to face her towards the wall.
Ashley: Face her towards the wall.
Liam: Good idea.
Ashley: Or towards something happy.
Taliesin: We're ready to pull you away when she starts to move.
Ashley: Yeah, okay. So.
Marisha: Wait! Are we unfreezing her?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: No, I thought we were going to talk to Allura first.
Laura: No, we're going to talk to her first.
Marisha: Oh wait, that's right. And we were going to do that thing.
Laura: You were drunk, it's okay.
Marisha: That's right, I was probably tipsy, sorry. We came up with like eight plans last night.
Laura: You were so drunk.
Sam: Wait, shouldn't Grog be here, he's the one who likes her.
Travis: Oh, the things I sacrifice for the group.
Ashley: So I cast Greater Restoration on Kima.
Laura: And then run away!
Matt: Okay, you reach out and touch the back of Kima. Her stone armor turns to gold and rapidly her entire form goes back to flesh. As she finishes her swing with the maul (impact sound) against the stone wall. And she kinda steps back for a second, confused, and looks over her shoulder at the rest of you.
Sam: Everything's okay, everything's okay, we're out of danger, we're at home, it's okay.
Laura: It's fine, it's fine, guess what, we are alive.
Sam: We lived.
Matt: Just drops the maul for a second and kinda leans back against the wall.
Marisha: I just get the leftover mashed potatoes from breakfast.
Matt: "Thank you, thank you, oh thank you. What happened?" She's not even using utensils, she's just like scooping it with her hand at this point.
Laura: So we killed K'Varn, right?
Matt: "Obviously."
Sam: Funny story, you were right about Clarota. He was horrible, we killed him. We killed him! Hey, you were right.
Laura: But not before we were overrun with a bunch of evil brothers of his.
Taliesin: And we got a very fancy hat out of it.
Laura: Hey, right, look at his hat.
Sam: We should've known all along, you were right, we should've trusted you, sorry.
Matt: "It's all right. He had his uses, certainly."
Liam: You were right, we were wrong, you're very attractive, we're all quite ugly.
Matt: "That isn't necessary, but the compliment is appreciated, regardless. Thank you for bringing me back with you. You could have easily left me back and I appreciate that you took the time."
Sam: So, you're alive, that's good because you were sorta on a suicide mission.
Matt: "Not a suicide mission."
Laura: What exactly was your mission, Kima?
Matt: "Where's the Horn?"
Laura: Well, thing is, it's not here.
Matt: "All right. It's not with the illithid, is it?"
Sam: It's in a safe place.
Matt: "How safe?"
Laura: Pretty safe.
Taliesin: Why, what can it do?
Matt: She looks visually nervous and she goes--
Laura: Nothing can touch it.
Matt: "Well, that's what the Order that originally sealed it believes. Even if it's somewhere safe temporarily, we can possibly relocate it. But we have to-- (sighs)"
Liam: You saw your mission as a suicide mission, but if you had secured it, what were your plans? What was plan B? What were you going to do?
Matt: "Well, if I were to fall in the process of trying to get the Horn, others would come after me. I sent word to my Order that if I did not return they would send more."
Laura: Can I insight?
Matt: Go for it, yeah, go ahead and roll insight.
Laura: 19.
Sam: Ooh!
Marisha: Whisper time! Sweet, sweet whispers.
Sam: Keep subscribing, guys, because whispering action doesn't come free.
Marisha: How many subscribers away are we?
Lucas: 38.
Marisha: 38 subscribers.
Travis: That's a lot.
Marisha: That's a lot.
Sam: That's a lot.
Marisha: That is still a lot.
Sam: Keep subscribing to Geek and Sundry, where you can watch Matt Mercer whisper at people.
Matt: And she goes, "So this Horn, which is one of two, if Allura is correct, was sealed a thousand or so years ago by those who originally cut it from the head of the avatar of Orcus of which it was bestowed. They, once he was slain, did everything they could within their power to destroy it, yet this artifact, instilled with the purity of Orcus, was indestructible to their knowledge. So the least they could do was to seal both horns across the world from each other and forget that it even existed. Which worked well until recently. It wasn't until these visions came to me and other members of my Order that we knew that this, this was a thing, and me being the closest in my pilgrimage, we took that as time of the essence I was to go in there with a team and retrieve it. If it couldn't be destroyed, at the very least we could convene and decide a safer place to possibly reseal it and forget. There are magical ways of forcing those of us who know how to forget. That would be the safest thing for it. If there is a way to destroy it, we don't know, but that could also be sought after. We have arcane and divine knowledge we didn't have back then, so, in the long run it needs to be retrieved, the longer it stays down there in the Underdark, no matter where you placed it, it draws like a beacon all darkness to it until something else like this beholder K'Varn will take up the mantle and themselves be as dangerous or more so than he ever was."
Laura: So the other Horn is still safe?
Matt: "As far as I know. The visions only gave me access to where this one was. I can only assume that it's out there, but if someone else were to find it, I would know that they probably have knowledge of the second one existing, as well. I don't know if K'Varn shared this information, but if someone else takes the mantle of this Horn, what's to stop them from seeking the other?"
Liam: Bummer.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "Regardless, I appreciate that we're all alive and we're together, and where are we?"
Laura: Oh, you're in our home.
Sam: Greyskull Keep. It's in Emon.
Matt: "We're in Emon?"
Sam: Yes.
Matt: "Well, that's wondrous, we can speak with Allura. She would have the wisdom to know what to do with this next."
Sam: Hypothetical. What if an army of darkness was slowly approaching Emon to kill all of us?
Matt: "What are you saying?"
Sam: Well, we killed Clarota and K'Varn, but we, there was a lot of bad guys down there that we could not kill--
Laura: We hurt that Elder Brain real bad, but not bad enough.
Matt: "I don't know much about the illithid themselves, but they reside deep and they are not fans of the surface. I believe that it was K'Varn's initial onset that was pushing them, both in union with the duergar and pushing them towards the siege. They spoke of something about bringing twilight to the surface world. I don't know what that was about, but I fear what knowledge they have if left alone. At the very least, I know that they're probably having to return and lick their wounds where we left behind. It would be folly for them, especially knowing that we're aware, to attack now."
Laura: Okay, that's good.
Matt: "But we can notify those in Kraghammer to buffer their defenses, close the tunnels that you took down there and my army as well, and that should give us time to prepare if we choose to seize or at least seal them off."
Laura: And your Order is what?
Matt: "The Order of the Platinum Dragon."
Laura: Right. That's a really good Order, right?
Taliesin: History check, can I do a history check?
Matt: It's a religion check.
Taliesin: That's a religion check, not history check?
Marisha: Pike.
Matt: You could roll a history check and probably gain some knowledge based on that, but the--
Ashley: Could I do it?
Matt: If you'd like to.
Ashley: Are you doing a religion check, Percy?
Taliesin: I'm doing a history check, if you want to do a religion check.
Ashley: I'll do a religion check.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: 22.
Ashley: So fucking close.
Matt: I mean, you guys are familiar loosely with the name Bahamut, you've heard Tiberius bring it up before, you've seen temples to it, but your knowledge knows that Bahamut is very well regarded as the lawful good deity of justice and honor and is primarily one of the great good gods of this pantheon.
Taliesin: If we're going to trust anyone, I think this is a good--
Travis: Yeah, I feel pretty good about this.
Taliesin: I trust the organization, they have a sterling reputation.
Marisha: So, Kima. Pie-in-the-sky goal? You would destroy the Horn?
Matt: "If we had the means of doing so, yes. We'd have to talk to the Order, we'd have to talk to the Council, we'd have to bring people that we could trust and that had the capabilities of knowing if this were possible how we would go about it. It's beyond my knowledge."
Liam: I think what worries us is anyone coming in contact with it would be corrupted.
Matt: "Don't go into contact with it."
Laura: No.
Liam: No, of course.
Marisha: Just within range.
Sam: Yes, is proximity okay?
Matt: "I don't know, I saw it for as long as you did."
Laura: This could be bad.
Sam: Evil Grog?
Laura: Kind of uncomfortable.
Matt: "The essence of most artifacts like this, it goes more than just touch, one has to be imbued, bond with these artifacts, to attune with them like any powerful magical item to truly gain its power, but that's not to say that itself does not contain some sort of foul intelligence."
Ashley: Can I go downstairs and go get Grog?
Matt: Okay. So you walk your way down.
Travis: (sings) I've got a lovely bunch of coconuts.
Matt: As you're walking past, as you walk past you are immediately met in the hallway by Erwen, your servant, your halfling elder servant who walks up and says, "Dear, I wanted to let you know that a scroll came for you, some sort of a summons." And he hands it to you.
Ashley: Me?
Sam: Probably jury duty.
Matt: And he kinda walks past you in the tunnel.
Taliesin: Always the worst time.
Matt: You open it up a little bit, it's not, hasn't been opened, you kinda pull the paper and open it up. It's a summon to the Council of Tal'Dorei, it's written by the hand of the clerk, and it says, essentially, the sovereign Uriel has been notified of your arrival and would like to see you at the council chambers posthaste.
Ashley: Okay. I'm still going to go get Grog, but I'll pass the scroll around. Hey Grog, come upstairs.
Travis: Oh yeah?
Marisha: That was for all of us?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: It was addressed to Vox Machina.
Travis: Is it clear?
Ashley: Just don't say anything yet, but just come upstairs.
Travis: Did she ask about me?
Laura: She definitely did.
Ashley: She did, yeah.
Travis: With my bald head.
Matt: All right. You make your way back in, Kima finishes her meal, and you guys are chatting a bit, she's just like, "All right, if I may ask, how did you seal it? I feel uncomfortable knowing the process and that it's at least safe."
Marisha: Oh, we have one of the best defense mechanisms. Grog!
Travis: Hello, Lady Kima.
Laura: It's in a very secure magical item.
Matt: She glances at you and goes, "All right, very well. Just be mindful that you don't go reaching in there."
Marisha: I use my Druidcraft as he enters to make little sparkles and lightning bugs appear around him. "Grog!"
Matt: Lady Kima, who is currently covered in dirt and sweat, still in the golden armor that she wrestled from the long-dead corpse of a dwarf in the Underdark, her chin is smattered with dried mashed potatoes and a bit of her breakfast, kinda gives--
Laura: So she's covered in food as well.
Matt: (laughs) Gives you a look as you're walking in like. "It's good to see you alive, friend."
Travis: Yeah, more than alive, I think.
Ashley: And also, he actually pulled you out of the cavern with one arm while you were stone. Out of the whole place.
Travis: Oh, stop, I don't like to brag.
Matt: She stands up and kinda wipes the food off her chin, clutches her symbol, and then steps right before you, looking up towards your face and says, "I thank you, friend Grog."
Laura: Friendzoned!
Matt: And then reaches out and gives you a big hug.
Liam: Plus he decided not to put you in the magical bag when you were a statue.
Matt: She releases Grog slightly, and kinda gives you a keen look and goes, "Also appreciated."
Travis: Yeah, well, you know.
Laura: Oh my god, thank god.
Sam: Why don't you go rest? We'll summon Allura and we'll continue the conversation from there, I guess.
Matt: "Please, I'd love to see her, it's been too long. All right, I'm going to, is there a room I could rest?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: You could use my room.
Taliesin: There's a guest room.
Laura: Yes, we have a guest room.
Sam: We should use it.
Orion: I would've had your back, by the way, there.
Travis: Thank you.
Matt: Erwen, who's by the door, leads her to the guest room and you guys take a moment to rest. We'll go ahead and pick up next session at that point, where Allura's being brought in, so we'll stop the game there as I have to rush to the airport, but before that we have some gifts to open from you guys.
Travis: You're rushing to the airport tonight?
Matt: Huh?
Travis: You're rushing to the airport tonight?
Matt: Yeah, I got a redeye, 1AM. To be in Sandusky, Ohio. At Collisi--er no, Collosalcon. Please come.
Travis: You're going to do the waterslides, right? You won't ride waterslides?
Matt: It'll be fun. Guys, thank you so much for watching, that was a lot of fun.
Sam: We lived!
Matt: And everyone lived! Barely.
Marisha: We lived!
Matt: Barely, oh my god.
Marisha: Holy shit, we lived.
Travis: One roll away from her being--
Ashley: That was rough.
Matt: Her and Scanlan.
Laura: One point, twice.
Matt: Twice for you.
Travis: Twice.
Taliesin: I'm going to go get our d20s back.
Marisha: Crazyballs. Oh yeah. We had two sparkles and a green one.
Ashley: I was just rolling bad.
Zac: Hey, guys. We got some gifts for you from the chatroom. Some letters.
Liam: I got an Asus computer with an "aren't we clever" sticker on it?
Marisha: Sweet.
Zac: Man, I'll give you an "aren't we clever" sticker if you want, it's worth about the same. We also have some donations to read off. (cheering)
Zac: So guys, as long as we're live, that subscriber giveaway still stands.
Laura: How far away are we from it?
Zac: 36 subs away from another giveaway. All right.
Matt: All right.
Zac: If you want to go ahead and, actually I don't know if she wanted this to be read. Oh, okay, but this is cool. Do you want to hand me those disposable cameras? Where did he go? Oh, I lost him.
Matt: Essentially it says, "Vox Machina, I have sent you a disposable camera. Basically I had this idea to send this to you and have you guys go crazy, fill up the camera with random shenanigans, whether it's behind-the-scenes, setup during a stream, or elsewise of your shoes, and then once you guys have filled both cameras, you can send them back with the already printed label included in the box I sent this in, send it back to me, I can get the pictures printed and doubled and then send you guys a set back once they're developed."
Marisha: Aw, that's a good idea!
Matt: "I thought it'd be something different for you guys to do, hopefully you enjoy it and I can't wait to hear back from you. Becca."
Marisha: That's fun!
Matt: Thank you so much, Becca.
Marisha: Awesome.
Ashley: Thank you, Becca.
Matt: Yeah, we'll keep the rest to ourselves. We've got an awesome picture of Grog and Mustang Scanlan. Look at that.
Taliesin: (sings) Mustang Scanlan.
Travis: Horse head. Evil horse head of doom.
Laura: Nice.
Taliesin: (sing) Slow your mustang down.
Marisha: (sing) Slow your mustang down.
Matt: All right, here we go.
Zac: All right, so let's get through these messages here.
Matt: All right, let's get this going, because I've got to get running soon.
Laura: All right.
Matt: All right, we have Jasonofarabia, heart, "Got up at 5am to watch you guys live, great show." That's awesome, donated $100.
Marisha: We're your morning show?
Matt: That's awesome. Cole donated $100. "#Percypower."
Travis: Percy power!
Ashley: Percy power!
Matt: All right, G1BigDaddyHef donated $20, "Might not be able to watch the stream due to closing shift, but was able to secure at least a ten-minute break to toss my weekly donation."
All: Aww.
Matt: Thank you G1BigDaddyHef!
Marisha: Closing shifts are the worst.
Matt: I feel ya on that. Thisisbonertown donated $10, thank you!
Orion: Yes, bonertown!
Matt: "Thank you for entertaining us every Thursday night". Thank you.
Liam: This! Is! Bonertown!
Laura: This! Is! Bonertown!
Matt: Wheeliefactoids donated $3, thank you Wheelie! "Great night guys, Ashley, your surprise is done on the server--"
Zac: Oh, Minecraft server.
Matt: Minecraft server surprise for you. "Come to these coordinates--" We have the coordinates here. "--and you will find your temple."
Zac: Somebody should probably write this down.
Matt: "1350 by 1350 z."
Zac: 1350 x.
Matt: "1350 x by 1350 z and you will find your temple of Sarenrae."
Ashley: Wait, 1350 z by 1350 x?
Zac: 1350 x by--
Zac: -- 1350 z.
Matt: -- 1350 z.
Matt: "-- and you will find your temple of Sarenrae. My temple of Orcus is next, mwahahaha." Oh, crap.
Ashley: Thanks so much!
Matt: Negihama donated $250.
All: Whoa!
Travis: $250?
Matt: Yeah. "Geek and Sundry twitch show cast and crew are amazeballs. I'm happy to help out one of the show's favorite, one of my channel's favorite show's charities. You know. For kids." That's awesome. All of these are going, by the way, to the charity for 826LA, guys, that's so amazing. Arandrial donated $10. "Critters, just a little donation towards a great cause, and by that, I mean Orion's silver butt-print."
Zac: Nope, that's not happening.
Matt: Yet.
Liam: With a hundred more subscribers.
Matt: Gyaka donated $15. "Thank you for the inspiration to both roleplay and write fiction again." Thank you for watching. #Critterlove. All right, we've got ZandorInvictus, donated $20. "Wore my shirt today for my session. Thanks to you guys, I rolled crit hits four times in one battle."
Taliesin: You took all of our crits. Thank you.
Marisha: That's where all of our crits were going.
Matt: "By the way, Matt, when I get my copy of Arkham Knight, is it possible to get it sent somewhere for an autograph?" Send it to this studio with return post, we're happy to do that. That's fine. As long as it's sent with return postage already paid, I'll be happy to sit here one of these days.
Laura: That's an important thing, return postage.
Matt: Yeah, return postage, don't make me pay for postage back.
Taliesin: Otherwise, hey, free copy for us, which is really cool.
Marisha: Take the disc out, send back the case.
Matt: Norsiraya donated $5. "I love you guys so much. I had my first D&D game last Saturday. Thanks, Marisha, for naming my half-elf druid Kalina."
Marisha: Oh, it was Kalina!
Matt: "Ended up burning the chest hairs off a pirate. I plan to burn the chest hairs off of many more creatures in the future. Vox Machina!"
Marisha: Love it.
Zac: I'm going to have to remember that move.
Matt: Yeah, you should. All right. Rona Konandario. "A friend showed me Critical Role a few weeks ago, just as our long-time group of friends started our game. It must've been destiny. I love everyone's genuine feelings towards all the aspects of the game. Expect fanart in the future. Much love." Donated $10. Thank you so much, Runa Konandario. Wheelyfactoids donated $3 also, same fellow, "Also, if you guys could come to Salt Lake City Comic Con in Utah, look me up and we'll go to some Cold Stone. Critter for life." RJCanuck donated $25. "Mercy-- Percy for MVP." No mercy for Percy.
Taliesin: No mercy for Percy.
Ashley: No Mercy Percy!
Matt: Moneylover89. "Love the show, crazy-intense tonight, keep it up, guys. Glad to donate for a good cause. Love the Critical Role team and all that you do." That's great, $20, thank you so much. GasGT, $25. "Thank you for letting us come along with your party. Met Matt and Marisha in Philly." That's awesome, good to see you! "Even more awesome in person. Hope Trinket's dice wasn't bad luck."
Laura: Oh, yay Trinket's dice, thank you!
Matt: "Hearts, Critical Role Critters." Thank you so much.
Marisha: Critters!
Matt: We've got CritterHaiku, great twitter page.
Laura: I love the haikus!
Matt: They're fantastic.
Marisha: They made a twitter, @critterhaiku, which is super-fun.
Matt: "Nothing compares to the thrill of a great escape, and helping kids read." Donated $20. Thank you, CritterHaiku. Keep it up.
Marisha: Gotta learn to read those haikus.
Laura: I love them.
Matt: Lob82517. "Happy to support the charity again. You guys seriously know how to stress us out. So nervous through that." Seriously, you weren't the only ones. "Thanks to all of you for the birth of Vox Moronica, one of the funniest things I've ever seen." They donated $10, thank you so much.
Zac: Where are those gifts, guys?
Matt: Let's do this. Thank you guys again so much for all your donations.
Marisha: We love you guys!
Taliesin: We love you guys so much.
Zac: There's stuff.
Marisha: So much fun.
Matt: For Liam, this is for you, Liam.
All: What?
Marisha: What is that?
Orion: Oh, the dagger, dude! It's a dagger!
Laura: This is for me?
Matt: That is for you.
Laura: Holy crap!
Sam: Wait, Laura, what did you get?
Matt: Oh my god, you got Jonathan Frakes signed?
Sam: Is he a fan of the show?
Matt: I'm sorry, Laura, what's this you have signed over here?
Laura: Oh my gosh. You'll always be my Number One.
Zac: This is for you to give to--
Laura: This is from Team Wishlist. Thank you so much!
Liam: This is a magic carpet for the group.
Marisha: Look at that shit, he's got a magic carpet!
Sam: On camera, on camera.
Liam: Thank you, Kat! Thank you Katkitten112 for this craziness, oh my god!
Matt: That's amazing.
Taliesin: That is so badass.
Matt: I'm going to say that's the keen dagger.
Laura: Look at how many daggers he has now! Ludicrous.
Liam: Just ten more.
Marisha: So many daggers.
Matt: All righty, guys, so. As a heads-up. "Attn Geek and Sundry Twitch. To the awesome people at Geek and Sundry, please forward this package to the members of Critical Role on my behalf. I have made them each a personalized pendant with their character names, plus a few extras. Earrings inspired by Keyleth, Pike, and Vex'ahlia for Marisha, Ashley, and Laura, and four Vox Machina pendants which can be kept or given away. Many thanks to all involved for making Critical Role possible. Those short videos of their campaign on Vine were never enough to know what was going on. Sincerely yours, Ipec Psy." That's so awesome. Thank you so much, Ipec. Okay, pass this down to Percy?
Orion: I got this amazing Tiberius pin.
Laura: So cute!
Taliesin: So fantastic.
Zac: Tiberius.
Laura: Oh, it's got a little deck.
Orion: Pike. Ashley. A three-inch figure of Pike is coming for you and a three-inch figure of Scanlan is coming. They're on their way.
Matt: You guys are ridiculous!
Orion: David.
Matt: It's your holy symbol.
Marisha: They're little flowers!
Zac: Hey, guys, we have some boxes of very special dice here, and they included a letter, but it says, "Please do not read on stream," so this is for you guys to read when we go offline, but we're going to hand these out as well.
Marisha: Holy crap.
Laura: Oh, this is for me!
Marisha: I'm pretty sure she has an Etsy store.
Taliesin: She does.
Laura: Oh my god, this is the best day ever.
Matt: You guys are ridiculous!
Liam: It's Critmas!
All: Critmas!
Liam: Whoa, look at that. That's a die, it's dangerous.
Travis: No it's not.
Matt: That's so cool, you guys are ridiculous.
Sam: Whoa, that's an awesome die!
Travis: Are you fucking kidding me?
Sam: Whoa, the first roll was a 20! (cheering)
Laura: This will never go in the dice graveyard.
Zac: Each one is unique to you guys, it's nuts.
Marisha: Oh my god!
Travis: Skulls!
Ashley: What? I got a Celtic knot!
Laura: This is the coolest thing ever.
Taliesin: Holy shit.
Marisha: What does yours look like?
Taliesin: Holy shit.
Laura: Let me see!
Ashley: Nice, what the heck!
Travis: It's made of skulls.
Laura: Wow, I got a 20!
Marisha: Whoa, with the whitewash on it.
Zac: Okay, wait.
Taliesin: I just rolled a 20! Look at it, look at it!
Marisha: Wait, did everyone roll 20s on their first roll?
Matt: These are magically enchanted handcrafted dice.
Travis: I rolled an eight.
Marisha: I rolled a four.
Matt: I got a Sputnik dice, by the way.
Ashley: Thank you so much!
Taliesin: Thank you so much!
Marisha: These are crazy! Holy balls!
Sam: Okay, a benefactor sent the holy charm of Sarenrae for me to present to you.
Marisha: Oh my gosh, that's so pretty!
Sam: In, I think, holy matrimony?
Ashley: Oh, well, let's just--
Matt: Ellie, these are all amazing. Thank you so much.
Laura: Thank you, thank you.
Ashley: Thank you, thank you.
Orion: A dragon-bone die for the dragonborn.
Matt: I've rolled nothing lower than a 16 on this die, so it gets used a lot moving forward.
Liam: Also, for my birthday I got (Gollum voice) precious.
Marisha: That's awesome!
Orion: Good job, guys.
Matt: You guys are ridiculous.
Zac: You guys are all going to post pictures to Twitter, right, because everyone's asking.
Taliesin: Oh, yeah. Oh yeah, this is happening.
Liam: (Gollum voice) Precious!
Zac: While these guys are still opening their presents, I wanted to-- go ahead.
Marisha: Ellie, whoever made the jewelry, to tweet at us and let us know her Etsy store.
Matt: Ellie did the dice, wasn't it, I think?
Marisha: Ellie did the dice.
Matt: Yeah, the pendants were--
Zac: Ellie did the dice.
Marisha: The pendants were from Ipec.
Laura: Oh, I've got to get all my presents in the picture.
Marisha: From @millena, let us know about your Etsy.
Ashley: Guys, thanks so much.
Matt: An awesome letter from Meghan Levann, cards from Meghan Levann's site, we're going to go ahead and pass these out, and I'll read this after the stream. That's so awesome, thank you so much, Meghan.
All: Thank you, Meghan!
Zac: While these guys are still going through their presents, I just want to remind you guys, thank you for tuning in, and tomorrow we have So You Don't Have To, and we're going to play Jazz Punk on the stream, and it's a lot of fun, and then after that we'll have Gather Your Party and IndieKate is joining us, the all-female punk band Blood Candy is joining us, and then we have the-- oh my gosh, I feel like a dumb-dumb now. What's the name of that-- the Dance Free Movement people? The group that threw the party for the guy that was shamed on the internet, the--
Matt: Mercer shirt. Dice on the back. DM represent.
Zac: I'm sure a lot of you guys heard about the man that was shamed on the internet.
Marisha: Yeah, the punk teenagers made fun of him?
Zac: Right. Made fun of him on the internet, and a large group of-- the Dance Free Movement came Together, flew him out to Los Angeles, and threw a big party for him, so we have the Dance Free Together group coming tomorrow to play Just Dance with us, to talk about their movement and everything like that, so make sure you guys tune in tomorrow, it's going to be a lot of a fun, that's from 7-10PM. And we had a couple more donations really quickly come in. Just wanted to say thank you to--
Matt: What's that?
Lucas: Did you read the dice on the shirt?
Matt: (laughs) Nice and hidden. Didn't notice that. The dice say, 'How do you want to do this?'
Laura: Awesome!
Taliesin: That's so cool.
Laura: Oh, that's really cool.
Zac: For the people that donated after we started reading the donations, I know Matt's trying to get outta here pretty quick, so thank you, FoxyForsythe, Zopher, Metheram and Hunter, I'll make sure these guys get the messages that you guys sent, but we're going to go ahead and let these guys start packing up. I know that they have lives!
Marisha: We're tweeting pictures of our dice and our things so everyone can see now.
Laura: I'm hashtagging Critmas.
Zac: Did we make that sub goal?
Orion: Oh my god, is that your die that you got?
Zac: We did not make the sub goal, so we'll get you guys-- no, we're not going to get it, so we'll get you guys with a giveaway tomorrow.
Matt: Next time, you can do it then. You guys are ridiculous, thank you so much. Have a wonderful night.
Ashley: Thank you guys so, so much.
Matt: See you next week on Thursday.
Marisha: We love you guys, you're amazing! [dramatic music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to Critical Role, the show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors get together, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons. My name is Matthew Mercer, I'm the Dungeon Master of the game. Welcome, new folks who haven't seen this before, hope you're not too lost, and returning Team Hooman and Critter fans, welcome back, we love having you and let's get this evening on the road. We have some announcements and things to talk about before the game actually kicks in, so we'll first pass it over here to our fantastic overlord to get that kicked off.
Zac: That's right, you get to see my ugly face for a couple minutes while I get through a couple quick announcements, guys. A lot of you have been asking me on Twitter and in the chat room when you will get to see Critical Troll? That will be up on the website tomorrow night at 8PM Pacific Standard Time. So go over to the website at 8PM, you'll be able to see that and I'm sure you guys will secretly pass around the youtube link and stuff.
Matt: Watch me go crazy.
Zac: Currently you can find Laura's article on GeekandSundry.com.
Laura: What?!
Zac: That came out today, so make sure to head over to the website and read that. And I know a lot of you are probably wondering about D&Diesel. Which is apparently the name, D&Diesel.
Laura: Yeah, it is.
Zac: Got a ring to it.
Taliesin: Hashtag D&Diesel.
Zac: Hashtag D&Diesel. That will be showing tonight during the midpoint of the show. Now, there's a couple special things with this showing, you need to watch it live. If you think that you're going to come back later, watch it on the rebroadcast, and you're gonna go dip out for a pee break or pizza break, whatever, don't! Stick around because after it shows tonight live, you will be unable to see it again until Monday on the website. So it will be cut from the rebroadcasts.
Laura: Whoa.
Zac: And I'm very sorry to our European audience. I'm really sorry about that, but that's just unfortunately how PR deals work sometimes and that's just the way it is. But, it'll only be--
Matt: It's only a few days!
Zac: Yeah, it'll only be a few days and you'll get to see a lot more on Monday. A longer cut and that's why it's a website exclusive. It's longer, it'll have some tightening and all sorts of other stuff. But, you guys get a special treat tonight with a preview showing, and it's still a long preview, it's like 20-25 minutes or something like that.
Laura: Whoa, it is?
Matt: Yeah.
Zac: It's pretty cool.
Matt: That'll be exciting.
Zac: So there's that. Tomorrow we have a very special event happening for all of those that joined us for the Extra Life campaign, thank you so much, and a lot of you guys were here as well.
Matt: Yes indeed.
Zac: And thank you for donating, getting us well past our goal, and as some of you may remember during Critical Troll, Felicia mentioned that if we reached a certain goal, she would come on, on a scheduled date and play Rock Band 4. So that's happening, tomorrow.
Matt: Yup!
Zac: We are having a battle of the bands from 5 to 7PM Pacific Standard Time, and Mr. Mercer here is going to be playing the drums.
Matt: Yeah, I'm drumming for them, which, first off, I haven't played since probably 2011, and I'm a little rusty.
Zac: Have you seen your competition?
Matt: No, but I assume they're gonna destroy me.
Zac: They're really good.
Matt: That's okay. I will narrate my failure.
Zac: There we go!
Matt: In a way that will still be as engrossing. (laughs)
Zac: And there's been a Twitter battle happening between the two teams.
Matt: Oh really?
Zac: You're kinda walking into the fire, my friend.
Matt: That's okay.
Zac: Felicia's put a lot on the line for you guy's team.
Matt: That's cool. I got fire resistance. That's fine.
Zac: Okay cool, cool. That'll be happening tomorrow 5PM to 7PM Pacific Standard Time, you guys should tune in for that. We are still going to be donating to Extra Life, but we're not really going to be pushing it, it's more of a reward for you guys for helping us get past that $75k goal.
Matt: Yes.
Zac: Our next giveaway is going to be at 9,500, we're getting pretty close. The other real quick little announcement I have as far as subs go, is last week you guys were able to get our sub train up to 420 subs, now that counts resubs and new subs. So we have the sub train going right now, I believe it's well over a hundred--
Matt: Woof.
Zac: If we break last week's record of 420 which I think they purposely stopped at 420--
Matt: (laughs) Of course they did.
Zac: Hey guys, don't go. We will do a giant giveaway of board games, D&D stuff signed by the cast, signed by the rest of the Twitch crew. We'll throw in a couple video games, t-shirts, all sorts of stuff. Plus Ivan has said if we reach that goal for TPK, which those that watched last Monday, thank you so much.
Matt: Yeah!
Zac: It's a new show on Monday nights where our Twitch cast plays as themself in Outbreak Undead. Last week, some of you saw the Twitch cast leave me for dead outside of the studio. And a lot of people thought that I might come back if given the opportunity. Well, if we break that sub goal, Ivan has said that I will come back and probably wreak havoc in some way for our Twitch host that thought they could get away with leaving me for dead in the middle of the street.
Matt: (laughs) That's awesome.
Zac: So let's break 420. The last announcement, guys, is just a real quick community announcement. We like to pride ourselves at Geek & Sundry for being a very open and loving and warm community, and that's absolutely the most important thing to us and to Felicia and to a lot of our viewers, and I know last week things got a little heated in the chat room, and we just want to remind everyone that we don't get the opportunity to talk to you much during the show, but we want to make sure you guys stay as positive as possible or I will have to throw the hammer down on you.
Matt: Shit. All right. There you--
Zac: That's pretty much it.
Matt: You know, just goes to say that this community is built on so many great, positive people and such a wonderful sense of community, and a big huge thanks and please share appreciation for our fantastic mods who work consistently and constantly throughout the day.
Zac: (sings) For free.
Matt: For free.
Zac: (laughs) You guys are crazy.
Matt: Through our chatroom, which if you've watched, as you're now seeing and have seen previous episodes, is I can only assume readable by super mastermind computers at this point. So, you guys do an amazing job, it's really appreciated and to all of you guys out there in the community, keep that positivity, keep that understanding, and enjoy our game for its ups, for its downs, for our good character choices, bad character choices. It's all an experience in a story that we're all having together at the same time. So, kick along, hold on, and keep smiling.
Zac: Well said, Matt.
Matt: Yeah, thank you.
Zac: We love you guys, kind of. (all laugh)
Matt: I do. I love you. We do.
Zac: I'm on the fence.
Matt: He's a-- you know.
Laura: We love you so much!
Matt: It's a thing. So yeah, so, couple other announcements for you guys. What's our sub count right now? When's our next one hundred?
Crew: 9.5k, 9,500.
Matt: At 9,500 we will be giving away our signed photo and signed art piece by Kit Buss to a random person who's active in the chat. So next time we hit that goal, we'll have that giveaway, which is awesome. Once again, Extra Life has been our big charity push right now. Everyone who's given, thank you so much. So, so much, and if ever you want to be a part of helping that out we have the information there available for you, it goes to a really great cause. Let's see, Sam will be here shortly. Unfortunately, we're down a Tiberius tonight. However, yesterday was Orion's birthday, so feel free to go ahead and wish him a happy birthday on Twitter.
Laura: Aw.
Liam: Happy birthday, Orion.
Travis: Happy birthday, buddy.
Matt: Happy birthday, Orion. But yeah, Sam should be here shortly. And, let's see, do we have any project announcements?
Liam: Just a project announcement?
Matt: Or any other announcements you've got.
Liam: Hey, yesterday I started directing for the World of Warcraft. So that's pretty good.
Laura: You did? (all cheer)
Matt: Congratulations, buddy.
Laura: That's so great!
Liam: I think it's gonna be ongoing and it was really nice.
Travis: Big deal.
Marisha: I'm so excited for you!
Laura: That's super exciting.
Matt: That's awesome.
Liam: Then anything right now?
Marisha: I'm so fangirly.
Matt: Anything you want.
Liam: All right, I also want to thank Pupgames from Twitter for sending me this.
Laura: Oh yeah.
Liam: Look at this. It came in the mail separate and I have a hood and now I can just, you know, I can go like that and no one will see me so thank you, Pupgames.
Matt: That's awesome!
Liam: Let me set it here. I haven't figured out how to wear it exactly, but I will.
Laura: (laugh)
Matt: (laugh)
Travis: Take all your clothes off and then figure it out.
Matt: It's warm on the chesticles.
Liam: And then, I just want to take a minute, I said thank you on Twitter, but I just want to thank everybody who for the last week has sent me well-wishes and today who has sent me well-wishes, and a lot of the Critter community got together and made a video just to, you know, just support, support me in-- I am having a hard moment in my personal life, not gonna get into it, but you guys kind of took my breath away today for real. So, thank you very much.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: We have the best fans.
Matt: This whole community is brilliant, so you guys.
Taliesin: So many of them in New York and in San Francisco this week, where we've been all over the place.
Marisha: Yes. Shout out to our New York and San Fran.
Matt: Yeah, we hit both coasts.
Marisha: San Francisco. Both coasts.
Matt: Yeah, in the same week. It's crazy. Yeah, we all went to New York Comic Con. We had a panel that went really well. We had a bunch of great critters come out and Team Hooman folks come and sit in the audience, ask questions. We had some fun banter back and forth. We gave out 'Critical Rolls,' these cookies that were our little meal deal.
Taliesin: That were neither critical nor rolls, really to be fair.
Matt: Right.
Taliesin: But they were good.
Marisha: But we're into it.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Imaginary rolls.
Marisha: Imaginary rolls.
Matt: Much like our realm is imaginary.
Taliesin: I may have hit a couple people in the face, for which I greatly apologize.
Laura: I definitely hit somebody in the face with one of those rolls.
Taliesin: Yeah, I like split someone's lip.
Matt: Completely unintentional, I'm sure.
Laura: I'm so sorry.
Liam: Her aim is excellent. She never misses.
Laura: Yes, I am an archer.
Travis: She Hunter's Marks that shit.
Laura: I Hunter's Marked your face.
Taliesin: And we played golf. It was quite nice.
Matt: Also, thank you guys for coming out to that event. Also, for those who came to see us at Forbidden Planet in New York, we had a great turnout, and that comic shop wasn't quite expecting what they were in for.
Travis: We weren't expecting that.
Matt: We weren't expecting, but they especially were like halfway through like, "Who are you guys?! What is happening?!"
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Travis: We are legion.
Marisha: We freaked out our Uber driver.
Matt: Yeah we did.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: We pulled up and got out of the car and all of a sudden it was like hundreds of people cheering and we all went "What?!" and the Uber driver went "What?!?"
Taliesin: I think his exact words is, "Is this for us?" (all laugh)
Matt: And even we were like "I don't know."
Laura: I don't know!
Matt: You guys were amazing. Thank you for that.
Marisha: I feel like we need to find and screen cap in the thread where we were like, 20, 30 people, guys. Let's not get our hopes up.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Well, that's who got back to me, was like, I don't know, 40ish.
Laura: Yeah, we thought it was gonna be like 40 people.
Matt: Yeah, that was a good turnout.
Laura: That-- pretty great. Was great. Pretty great.
Liam: It was pretty metal.
Taliesin: The internet went, nope.
Matt: Yeah. Other announcements  Coming up in I think the next couple weeks or so, the release of the Minecraft Story Mode.
Marisha: (whispers) Yeah.
Travis: (sings) Yeah.
Matt: Comes out on Xbox. Completely a fun show. We went to the Archlight Let's Play of it they did, which was really a lot of fun. I play the characters Aiden and Otis in it.
Marisha: Hundreds of screaming children. Screaming, yeah.
Matt: Yes, lots of screaming children. Yeah, so I play Aiden and Otis and a smattering of other characters throughout. I think Sam also worked on it. Anyone else?
All: Ashley.
Matt: That's right, Ashley Johnson, our very own Pike!
Liam: She's one of the mains.
Matt: Yeah, she's one of the main characters in that show. So if you're a Minecraft fan and you like Telltale and you have an Xbox, check it out.
Laura: Speaking of Telltale, the final episode of Tales from the Borderlands comes out next week.
Travis: Oh snap!
Laura: Episode five, what!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: Awesome!
Laura: Exciting.
Matt: (sings) Yeah.
Taliesin: Also in that role, if any Critters are in the Galveston area for Halloween, I will be at OniCon over Halloween weekend. So, you can come say hi in beautiful Galveston by the sea. Galveston, Texas.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: I'll be wearing a costume. It'll be great.
Matt: Perfect.
Liam: We have a gnome.
Laura: We have a gnome.
Taliesin: We have gnome? Oh god!
Marisha: You're in Minecraft, right? Story mode.
Sam: Yes I am.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: In fact you and I--
Matt: I think we have a couple scenes together.
Sam: We do something together, I don't know what. Or you're playing a version of me or something, I don't remember.
Matt: I can only assume that it's tawdry.
Sam: (laughs) The director told me something about you and I just assume we're probably having sex in the game.
Matt: Probably.
Sam: Yeah, okay.
Matt: It's just like an extended, fully interactive too. Talk about choices you make that affect the storyline. (laughs)
Taliesin: I blank out in the booth any time they mention his name.
Matt: But yeah, cool, guys. Any announcements anyone want to talk about, or shall we get things started?
Laura: Let's do it!
Matt: All right, let's do it.
Marisha: Do it!
Liam: Wait, where did Grog go?
Taliesin: Wait, wait, wait.
Sam: He'll be here.
Matt: Grog, he'll be here in a minute but in the meantime, let's go ahead and dial in for the next episode of Critical Role.
Taliesin: Dun dun dun dun. [opening credits]
Matt: Welcome back. So. Sh. (laughs) So, to go over the current adventure in its current sequence, we have-- the party recently had an encounter with the Briarwoods. Two individuals that were responsible for a lot of strife--
Liam: Dicks!
Matt: -- in the background of Percival's history. Seemingly responsible for the destruction of his entire family, and have for the past five years been essentially ruling his home city and castle. They were out for a political banquet with Sovereign Uriel in Emon and the party members of Vox Machina, they were all invited to be part of this. Didn't quite go as planned. There was a scuffle and the Briarwoods absconded back to Whitestone. They sent a couple assassins out to attempt to take out their driver, who was spilling information and essentially was going to be Vox Machina's way of being free of any sort of political issues based on their actions that evening, and after much discussion and preparation and purchasing a lot of mirrors, the party took their transit over to the east-northeast towards Whitestone, where they began to traverse the Alabaster Sierras to the north, using the mountain range as opposed to going directly through the forest. There they managed to avoid encountering a bunch of harpies that were distracted by eating the horses they left behind.
Travis: Damn.
Matt: They camped for the evening and began to make their way through some sort of a mountainous valley that led in towards the forest surrounding Whitestone. While they were traveling down this pass, there was a rumbling, and some sort of really fast, rapid-moving large blue creature that leaped down in front, catching them off-guard. And that is where we begin today.
Travis: Probably should have fucking researched that creature.
Taliesin: Did the creature look like that?
Matt: That blue creature.
Laura: Yeah, right? That would have been smart.
Taliesin: Okay, just checking.
Travis: I never do that.
Laura: I know. So dumb.
Sam: What's dumb?
Travis: I have a question.
Laura: That we didn't research that creature.
Travis: What did you roll on your beard check?
Matt: What'd I roll on my beard check?
Laura: I know, it's growing!
Marisha: It's metagaming, you can't. We're not allowed.
Matt: Well, obviously. (all laugh)
Matt: Well, No Shave 'Til 10k.
Travis: That's true!
Matt: And my Halloween costume requires a decent amount of facial hair.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right.
Travis: A sexy amount of facial hair, you beast! Be glad there's a table between you and I. (all laugh)
Liam: I was a little worried about some performance capture coming up, but it got moved back--
Laura: So you can shave--
Liam: Off to the races.
Matt: Yeah!
Laura: How far are we from 10K?
Travis: I gotta shave tonight.
Crew: 509.
Matt: 509 away.
Laura: All right.
Sam: So, like, tomorrow.
Marisha: Yeah, no.
Matt: We'll see.
Marisha: Tonight.
Matt: All right, so, everyone. As this huge, blue-scaled reptilian-like creature with multiple arms and legs comes skittering down the side of the cliffs, blocking off the entirety of this passage, snarling at you with sharp teeth and this sparking-blue electrical energy jutting out of the corners of its mouth. I want you all to roll initiative.
Marisha: So soon! Which one?
Sam: I add 20 to this, right, that's how it works?
Marisha: Not good.
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: See you guys in--
Marisha: Always cocked!
Travis: I didn't level up! What a dick.
Marisha: Still not great.
Liam: Wait, you did but you didn't, is what you're saying?
Travis: I did, but I didn't.
Liam: Add some hit points!
Laura: Yeah, add your points right now.
Liam: Add some hit points!
Travis: How many do I add?
Marisha: It's like--
Matt: 1d12 plus your constitution modifier!
Laura: 1d12!
Marisha: Barbarian, man!
Liam: Hey, we play D&D!
Laura: Hey, that's good! Plus--
Liam: Plus--
Laura: Whoa! 16 extra health points!
Matt: Whoa, what'd you roll?!
Laura: He rolled an 11 plus five!
Liam: Dang!
Marisha: That's hot.
Matt: That's pretty hot. So many hit points for the barbarian.
Liam: And, if you want, you can just boost to, are you at 12 now?
Travis: What?
Liam: Level 12? Are you at level 12?
Laura: Don't complicate things.
Liam: Just smash, smash, Hulk smash.
Sam: How many spells does he get?
Matt: All of them. All right, so initiatives we have-- 25 to 20, anyone?
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: All right. 20 to 15?
Laura: 19.
Travis: Me too. 16.
Matt: 16? 15 to ten?
Marisha: Ten.
Matt: Ten, Keyleth. Ten to five?
Liam: Eight! I consistently botch this roll.
Sam: See you guys in like an hour. I got a four.
Matt: Scanlan, you have consistently the best initiative rolls.
Sam: Oh, yeah. I save it for when it counts.
Matt: As you should, as you should. So, first up Percy. Instinctively, with your drive towards Whitestone and this creature in your way, you are already ready for this encounter. What are you going to do?
Taliesin: It's bigger than sin, isn't it?
Matt: It is considered a huge creature.
Taliesin: Okay, so, I'm going to alert everybody, get down! And I'm going to take three shots--
Sam: You're just going to start shooting.
Taliesin: Hmm?
Sam: You're just going to start shooting.
Taliesin: I'm just going to-- look at that thing!!
Marisha: Hey, Percy gonna do what Percy gonna do.
Sam: What if you could reason with him?
Laura: He is definitely--
Taliesin: Why doesn't it reason with me, is what I'm asking! It could reason with me!
Liam: There's a lot of heads in the way. Just aim true.
Taliesin: I'm aiming, I'm going to use the Sharpshooter for extra damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Three pepperbox shots.
Liam: I will be less handsome with one ear, I'm just saying.
Matt: With the minus five.
Taliesin: Yeah, so that's 17.
Matt: 17 hits. Just go ahead and roll the attacks in succession.
Taliesin: Hmm?
Matt: Go ahead and roll the attacks in succession so we know how many hit.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Second shot.
Taliesin: Second one, it hits, 18 plus seven.
Matt: It hits. Third one?
Taliesin: For the third one, I'm going to go for a head shot instead of a Sharpshooter.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And that's 21.
Matt: Okay, all three hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: The dark cloud aids his rolls.
Laura: (whispers) Vengeance!
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: 17 damage.
Laura: (whispers) Vengeance!
Taliesin: Better!
Travis: Vengeance!
Taliesin: 25.
Matt: All righty!
Taliesin: That went really well. The last one-- do I do any damage when I hit the head? Normal damage. So, last one is seven points of damage plus he's got--
Matt: Disadvantage on his attacks this round.
Taliesin: Yeah, disadvantage on attacks.
Matt: Gotcha. Do you want to stay where you are, or are you going to move?
Taliesin: Am I touching a wall?
Matt: You're right close to one. You can--
Laura: Stop touching me. Stop touching me.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to brace against a wall.
Matt: Okay. Brace against that wall, there. Gotcha.
Taliesin: And I'm going to mark all this off.
Matt: All righty. Okay. Next up is the creature.
Laura: Argh.
Matt: (Laughs) Because it rolled really high on its initiative. It's going to go ahead. Let's see, at a movement of 50 feet.
Liam: Oh god.
Laura: (gasps)
Travis: (whispers) Are we in a valley? Or are we--
Laura: We're in a freaking--
Marisha: We're in a death trap.
Liam: It crawled down the wall.
Sam: No, it's going to be fine, guys. We're like a--
Taliesin: We're outdoors.
Sam: The valley is like a taco shell.
Laura: Is it a valley, or is it like those are cliff sides and we could fall?
Matt: It's a valley. The cliff sides go up.
Sam: Yeah, it's like a taco shell and we're the meat.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: And we're-- Yeah. Yeah. (all laugh)
Matt: You could climb around it without a problem. But it's pretty sheer. You'd have to make climb checks if you want to--
Marisha: Yep, accurate.
Liam: We're in a tight spot.
Laura: Okay. Got it.
Liam: We're in a tight spot.
Marisha: Unless you're in Japan.
Matt: So it scurries forward--
Taliesin: Taco.
Matt: Lowers its jaw and rears its head back. As it does, you see its eyes flare with electrical energy and inside its mouth begins to glow with a brightish blue, white power.
Liam: Get down.
Matt: A bolt of electrical energy comes forward, hitting Grog, Vax, Scanlan, and Percy.
Travis: It's electrifying!
Laura: Electrified.
Matt: Well, let's see. Actually, no, it would move out to-- Hmm, that's only 20 feet, so to get maximum-- This, let's see.
Sam: Maybe it doesn't do math well.
Laura: Don't think about it, just go.
Sam: Maybe it doesn't know math well. Maybe it doesn't move right.
Laura: Don't calculate it, Matt. It's fine.
Matt: No, actually for optimal--
Laura: Fuck.
Matt: --optimal impact here, instead, it's going to go there.
Travis: I have to put my head in its mouth?
Matt: (laughs) Practically.
Liam: (laughs) Eh.
Matt: It will then do it on-- It would be Grog, Vex, and Trinket.
Sam: I approve of that.
Matt: I realized that its bolt is only 20 feet long. So, utilizing its optimal Lightning Bolt length, you guys were clustered together.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: All right, so I need you guys, you three, to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: With advantage?
Laura: With advantage because I'm in the mountains?
Matt: You do it with advantage. It only affects attacks, not for saving throws.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right. This is a magic save.
Travis: 19.
Matt: Good to know.
Taliesin: I probably should spend Grit.
Laura: 21.
Matt: All right. And Trinket?
Laura: Argh.
Liam: (Chewbacca sounds)
Laura: (growls) Eight. Yay.
Matt: He got an eight?
Laura: He got a eight.
Matt: Oof, okay. 33 points of lightning damage to both of you.
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: Wait, that means--
Matt: Trinket takes 66.
Sam: 66?
Laura: Trinket's fucking dead, yo.
Sam: What?!
Matt: Unconscious.
Laura: That fast?!
Travis: Which one  dead or unconscious?
Laura: He's unconscious.
Taliesin: Unconscious.
Travis: Don't throw around the "D" word, unless it's the "D" word time.
Matt: So, as there was a crackling of energy forward, you two brace yourself, managing to get mostly out of the way. Unfortunately, both of you dodging out of the way leaves an open shot for bear, that just takes the brunt of it, throwing Trinket up against the side of the actual mountainous cavern. And slumps to the ground, smoking off the fur.
Laura: Does Trinket have to make saving throws?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Death saving throws? Yes.
Marisha: No one has any resistance, spell resistance?
Matt: Not yet. Until we get to his turn. That will end--
Laura: Ooh, ooh, wait.
Marisha: Forgetting-- Your armor? I've got a spell you're--
Laura: He's only got 42 hit points.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: Technically, he should have more from leveling up. But, even more wouldn't be that much higher, so-- Okay, so that's rough. That ends its turn. Vex, you're up first. (all laugh)
Travis: She would like to rage.
Marisha: (as Matt) So that sucks, but--
Laura: Vengeance! Vengeance.
Taliesin: Say your soul is forfeit.
Laura: I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: And then I'm going to-- Why is he closer now? Sorry, Grog. I'm going to Hail of Thorns him.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Grog is always in the way.
Laura: Yeah, well--
Travis: I do need a good back tickle.
Liam: (as Grog) Got an itch back there.
Travis: Yeah. (laughs)
Laura: 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Laura: No, wait, that's wrong. No, 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Laura: (sighs) I'm so angry right now! Thorn's d--
Travis: It's not at me for once.
Laura: Ten. (sighs) 3d10.
Taliesin: For once, you're not the one doing damage to the bear.
Travis: That's good.
Laura: 18 plus two is 20.
Marisha: It's a bonus action, so we can do other shit if Scanlan and I both do it.
Laura: What is that?
Travis: 22.
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22 also hits.
Laura: No, that's the attack.
Matt: That's the damage. Okay, gotcha. And Grog, also--
Laura: Oh, yeah.
Matt: Because you're right next to it.
Travis: (posh accent) Would that be considered piercing, bludgeoning, or slashing damage?
Matt: (posh accent) It doesn't matter, you have not taken your turn to rage yet.
Travis: (posh accent) Oh fucking shit. (all laugh)
Matt: That would be full damage upon you, Grog.
Travis: Ow! (laughs)
Laura: Oh shit, I'm sorry. The other one was 27.
Matt: To hit? Okay.
Laura: Awoo. Ten plus--
Sam: Angry d10.
Laura: Plus 15.
Matt: 15. That's including the Hunter's Mark, right?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right, good.
Laura: Oh wait, no, I wasn't adding the seven. Wait no, that's a lie. That's a 15, 16, 17, plus five. 21.
Matt: 21, got it. So, as you look over and you see Trinket on the ground, smoldering spire of smoke pouring off of his body--
Laura: Can I pull him? Can I pull him out of the way?
Marisha: Smells like burnt fur.
Sam: Burnt fur.
Laura: Just pull him into the little crevice, for my move.
Matt: This way, do you mean?
Laura: For my move. Is that a move action, or would it be an action-action?
Matt: That would be more of an action-action, unfortunately.
Laura: Ugh. Oh no.
Matt: But you angrily turn around, release your arrow, firing a completely furious Hail of Thorns into the creature. As it hits, it shatters across its hide, some of it scattering onto Grog. You don't even care. You just focus the anger, pull out a second arrow, unleash this one. Actually jamming underneath one of the scales. You can see a little trickle of dark, deep purple blood beginning to pour from the wound.
Laura: I get out of the line.
Matt: Okay, where do you want to go?
Laura: Towards the little crevice.
Matt: Right there?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Did we lose--
Laura: But I still want to be near Trinket.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Getting ass-lit up with the Hail of Thorns, I go into a rage.
Laura: I'm so sorry.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Travis: I go into a Frenzied Rage!
Matt: All righty.
Travis: And I would like to attack three times with my flaming warhammer.
Matt: Certainly.
Liam: No more shopping today.
Travis: That is 24.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 21?
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Eee! 26.
Matt: That also hits.
Travis: Nice. Those were really good rolls. Okay. First one is 11.
Laura: I think I missed a box.
Travis: 13? First one.
Matt: 13 damage. Good to know.
Taliesin: Brought another sign.
Travis: 14 for the second one.
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Travis: Yes. 17 and 18, 19, 20, 21 plus the fire damage.
Matt: Good to know.
Travis: Including fire damage.
Matt: All right, so, going into the rage, you just see that same fury. You can smell the burnt hair in the air and you use that to fuel that moment of pain. You just (impact sounds) and just start bludgeoning the creature right up in its face. You can see it's thrashing and snarling at you and snapping with each blow. You guys are locked in this titan-versus-human battle right now. Cool, and are you going to stay where you are?
Travis: I'm going to move. Can I move towards you a little bit?
Matt: This way, there?
Travis: Yes, staying next to him, but just out of the way of other projectiles that might be coming up my butthole.
Matt: Fair enough. (laughs) Okay, Grog. Ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. I'm right next to Trinket, right?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Marisha: Okay, right? Where is Trinket?
Matt: Trinket's right there. You're over here.
Liam: Follow the smell.
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and go to Trinket.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: Oh, that's right. Make a death saving throw, by the way.
Sam: Oh, snap.
Matt: Almost forgot.
Laura: (whimpers) Oh no.
Matt: Roll a d20.
Liam: (sings) Roll high.
Marisha: He'll be fine. He'll be fine.
Taliesin: Roll like your bear depends on it.
Travis: You should pick a blood-colored one.
Laura: Why would you do that? He rolled a 19.
Sam: Ooh.
Matt: Okay, so not creeping closer to death yet.
Laura: Don't say that.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to go ahead and do a Cure Wounds spell on him.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Thank you, Keyleth.
Marisha: I'll just do first level.
Sam: Oh. Trinket's not worth second level?
Marisha: No no no no no. I'll give him a-- shut up, Scanlan. (all laugh)
Liam: Wake him up, wake him up, wake him up.
Marisha: I instantly felt guilty, dick.
Taliesin: You guilted her up to another level.
Marisha: Yeah, you did. Okay.
Travis: (laughs) That was the best.
Sam: I would've done a cantrip.
Marisha: (laughs) That's 2d8 plus ten.
Travis: Dick.
Laura: 2d8 plus ten? That's great. (all laugh)
Travis: Guilted it for an imaginary bear.
Marisha: All right, that's pretty good.
Taliesin: That's not bad.
Marisha: That's an eight and a seven plus ten. So--
Matt: 25.
Sam: 25.
Marisha: 25.
Laura: 25!
Matt: So Trinket's at 25 hit points, conscious.
Laura: That's great!
Matt: Prone, but conscious.
Laura: He licks her.
Matt: You hear the-- okay. (laughs)
Marisha: And then, as a bonus action--
Taliesin: Ack.
Matt: Mm-hm?
Marisha: Can I, looking at whatever the shit this is, pull out my spark stone--
Laura: (gasps)
Marisha: --that I got from my Fire Ashari.
Sam: That's a thing? Oooh.
Matt: Uh-huh.
Marisha: And (shattering sound).
Sam: (gasps)
Taliesin: Oh, wow! We're going there.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Is that, like, "Break glass in case of emergency"?
Marisha: Yeah, I don't know what it does.
Sam: (laughs) Oh, great!
Travis: We'll find out.
Sam: Hope I'm right next to you.
Matt: After you finish healing Trinket--
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: -- you pull up, reach out, and pull this. And you're going to hold it in your hands, you could feel it's warm to the touch. Almost too hot to hold. And there's this slight pulsing, almost like a heartbeat pulse to it. You hold it in your hands and just crush it, concentrating all your energy on it. As you do, what seemed to be hard and sturdy all of a sudden turns brittle in your fingers, and it cracks and breaks, almost like it was made of a very, very brittle earth. As it breaks and your hands come together, the "too hot to touch" becomes too hot to touch, and for a moment, your hands burst into flames--
Sam: Ah.
Matt: And you instinctively pull back like you want to go ahead and put out the fire--
Marisha: Ow!
Matt: -- but then it falls to a normal temperature again, but the flames remain.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: And you can now see your hands are now emitting flame from all the fingers.
Sam: Woo.
Laura: Is that permanent?
Sam: What does it do?
Marisha: We'll find out. And I go Minxie.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Yeah, Minxie! (all cheer)
Marisha: And I brought the hood. (all laugh)
Sam: Too hot to handle, too cold to hold.
Liam: That tiger's on fire!
Travis: They in control.
Matt: Keyleth transforms into Minxie! And as Minxie--
Travis: Bobby Brown.
Matt: -- appears, her form transitioning into this large, albino sabre-toothed tiger--
Sam: (sing) Well, I guess we're gonna have to take control.
Taliesin: (sing) Well, I guess we're gonna have to take control.
Matt: You can see both of the tiger's claws embedded into the ground of this rocky terrain are having licks of fire and flame curling off of the actual claws.
Marisha: Hell, yeah. I look like an Ed Hardy tattoo. (all laugh)
Matt: (laughs) I regret everything! (all laugh)
Matt: All right. That's your turn. Are you going to move, are you going to stay there?
Marisha: Well, I moved to Trinket.
Matt: Right, but you can break your movement up.
Marisha: Oh, yeah.
Matt: You've moved 20 feet, so you still have ten more feet to move if you want to.
Marisha: I'll start heading to try and flank him. To flank the blue beastie.
Matt: That should be there. Okay. All right, that ends Keyleth. Now would be Tiberius. Tiberius, who now takes the turn to cast Stoneskin on himself. Then backs up behind this side, there, preparing for the next round. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, Vax drops low. I click the boots of haste together, and for everyone who keeps asking, if I click my boots of haste together, I then get to attack three times. I get that question about three times a week. So that's how I do it. So, I click the boots of haste together, and then I'm going to crouch low and scoot. No, the other side of Minxie, and I should be able to go 60 feet without a problem all the way past the fucker.
Matt: Mm-hm?
Liam: Yeah, keep going, as far as I can. That's as far as I can go?
Matt: Yep.
Liam: All right. And I guess I will just dagger him in the ass, then.
Matt: All right.
Liam: So-- First is a--
Taliesin: I love that die.
Liam: Two, three, 24?
Matt: 24 hits.
Liam: Yes. And this would be Sneak Attack--
Matt: This is with Sneak Attack, yep.
Liam: Because he's with Grog.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Yeah!
Liam: So, here's the damage for the attack. Ooh. Two, seven, is nine, plus-- Ooh.
Laura: Ooh, oh no.
Liam: This is 13, 17, 19, 20, 26, 31 for the first.
Travis: Jesus.
Liam: Second attack go. Oh, that's not the right die at all. Second attack goes. Same. Eee, 23?
Matt: All right, that hits.
Liam: Okay. And this is--
Matt: Regular damage now.
Liam: Yeah yeah yeah. That's seven?
Matt: Seven, all righty.
Liam: And then the last dagger, the keen dagger, stabs him in the butt again, and that is--
Laura: Ow.
Liam: Ow, 16.
Matt: 16. That does not hit.
Liam: Whiff!
Matt: You actually go with a third one. The first one stabs through, and you can see you've actually hit some sort of an internal organ as you pull back and starts gouting blood. You see that, you stab a second blade in the same area and tend to open the wound another inch, inch and a half. The third one, you pull back, but it slinks around over its shoulder, its long sinewy neck curling over and staring at you. And your blade catches the hide instead and streaks off of the scales.
Liam: Oh, hi.
Matt: That'll end your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Do I have to heal Trinket anymore?
Laura: No, he's okay.
Sam: Okay. Then I will-- (laughs) Let's see here. Do we want to get him away from us, or do we want to hurt him? Let's do--
Laura: We want to hurt him!
Sam: Well, I don't hurt things very well. (laughs)
Travis: Do what you're going to do.
Laura: Do what you do.
Taliesin: You hurt feelings.
Marisha: You do you, Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. I'll do some Bigby Hand.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: I summon Bigby's Hand. (sings) Bigby's Hand! (all laugh)
Matt: This giant spectral hand, sparkling arcane energy appears roughly in front of your space.
Sam: It's in front of me. I can't make it go in front of him?
Matt: You can.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Like, I'm just saying, from a flavor standpoint.
Sam: Okay. Well then, I do one of these, the Sugar Ray Leonard. I do this-- (all laugh)
Sam: And then I throw my other hand forward. (all laugh)
Sam: And I'll just punch him in the face.
Matt: Go for it. (all laugh)
Matt: I like that.
Sam: Right? Because I can do the-- It says huge or smaller creature, at least with Grasping Hand. Is that only-- does that count?
Matt: Right. Oh. You can just punch something with it, no matter its size, to do damage.
Sam: So the Clenched Fisht, Clenched Fist.
Matt: Correct. Correct.
Laura: Clenched Fisht.
Matt: Clenched Fisht.
Sam: Clenched Fisht attack, Money Penny.
Matt: Thish ish the one you're talking about. Yes. All right, so-- For the Clenched Fist, make a melee spell attack. So roll a d20 and add your spell attack modifier.
Sam: (laughs) Nope. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: 13.
Matt: 13. As the fist swings out, it ducks out of the way. Its serpentine body ducking as the fist arcs off into the middle of the air.
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: Spinning around, preparing itself for a secondary round, hopefully.
Laura: Good try, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh boy. (laughs)
Matt: That's good.
Liam: Vax sees it fly over his head, and watches it pass. (all laugh)
Sam: I'll take a step to my left, so I'm not in the same line of fire as Percy.
Matt: All right.
Sam: And I'll also inspire Grog. (sings) He's Grog, he's Grog, he's big, he's strong, like wood. He's better than bad, he's good. (all laugh)
Laura: That's awesome.
Matt: (sings) Everyone wants a Grog.
Travis: That's amazing. Is that a ten? That's a ten?
Matt: d10, yeah.
Travis: Amazing.
Matt: d10 Inspiration die from the bard.
Travis: Thank you, Scanlan.
Matt: Top of the round again. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to scoot a little bit forward, just into that little crevice. I'm going to take three more shots, just to see what I can do.
Matt: Okay. You have the Sharpshooter feat, right?
Taliesin: With the Sharpshooter feat.
Matt: Okay, so yeah. Because it would have partial cover right now, but you ignore that with the--
Taliesin: I have Sharpshooter, so I can ignore cover.
Matt: Good to know.
Taliesin: Yeah, so. But I'm going to be taking a negative for these hits. Still three attacks per--
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. Just making sure I'm doing this right.
Matt: But you have to reload after this turn.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Oh no.
Travis: Misfire?
Taliesin: Misfire. (all groan)
Matt: First shot. As you pull up to the side, you pull your pepperbox out and go to fire. As you do, you pull the trigger and the actual barrel sticks out the side. Spins off, and (ping-ping-ping) on the ground.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: So that's your attack.
Marisha: Balls.
Matt: That's your turn because it'll take you the rest of the turn to collect the Bad News.
Sam: Just say, "Your soul is forfeit," just for coolness. (all laugh)
Taliesin: This normally doesn't happen to me. I don't quite know what-- (all laugh)
Travis: It happens to all guys sometimes. (all laugh)
Taliesin: So can I, at least, use my bonus to pick up the pieces and--
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to pick up the pieces and--
Matt: You collect Pepperbox and you pull your back up to it and mutter curses.
Laura: Oh no.
Liam: Make sure you grab your dignity as well.
Taliesin: I'm just going to leave that as an open target for a little while.
Matt: Fair enough. Okay. Now, on its turn--
Sam: Oh shit.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: First off, let's see here.
Liam: Damn it, attack attack!
Sam: We did great. (laughs)
Matt: But that does not recharge its Lightning Breath. It's going to move here. It's going to go ahead and make two attacks. It's going to turn around and its head that's looking at you, now, after you stabbed it in the back.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Reaches down, its giant jaws open. You can see, like, this thick saliva that's coating its fangs, and it, with serpentine speed, bites at you.
Liam: Hey, rogue's Evasion.
Matt: That's going to be a 23 to hit.
Liam: So, Uncanny Dodge, I can dodge for half damage, so it was a what to hit?
Matt: 23.
Liam: 23 hits, but I take half damage.
Matt: All right.
Laura: (as Vax) Half damage.
Matt: So, let's see. That would be--
Liam: Yesh.
Marisha: Does a bite attack--
Liam: Half. Not whole.
Laura: (as Vax) Half damage.
Liam: 152 hit points.
Travis: Stop rolling, Jesus.
Matt: (laughs) It would be 26 damage, so you take 13.
Liam: Ah, nothing.
Laura: Okay, okay.
Taliesin: Ain't nothing.
Laura: Don't say that's nothing.
Matt: Points of piercing damage.
Laura: Don't say that's nothing.
Matt: And then, as it bites, it turns around and its tail begins to snake around your body, Grog.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: And its whole body begins to try to reach around to constrict and crush you.
Travis: Oh shit.
Laura: What?
Matt: That is a 21 to hit.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: All righty, so. You take 21 points in bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Halved.
Matt: So that'd be 11 points of bludgeoning damage plus 21 points of slashing damage.
Sam: Whoa.
Travis: Halved.
Matt: As well. So a total of 22 damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And you are considered grappled and restrained, currently, as the entire creature begins to wrap around you. And you're currently (sound of struggle). You're trying to hold onto your axe but your whole body's being crushed by this large serpentine creature. (all laugh)
Travis: You piece of shit.
Matt: You feel every pulse of its muscles tensing. As the pain and ache, you can feel muscles and ligaments tearing and popping as it pulls in on you.
Travis: Not cool.
Matt: And it's going to, as part of its grapple, move you with it to there. And it'll end its turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. How does the Hide thing work? Do I hide at the beginning of the turn or at the end of the turn?
Matt: At the end of the turn.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to move out.
Matt: Okay, it has a reach of ten. So you are technically within its melee range. So you can run but you'll take attack of opportunity from it if you do. Just so you're aware.
Laura: Can I still arrow it from where I am?
Matt: You can, but you have disadvantage on all your ranged attacks because you are in melee range.
Laura: Does it cancel out because I'm in the mountains?
Matt: Doesn't affect your attacks.
Laura: Damn it.
Matt: Sorry. It's up to you, you can stay where you are and take disadvantage on all your attacks, or you could run past and it gets a free swipe on you. Your call.
Laura: I'm going to try to back up.
Matt: Okay. Over to here? Like, how far?
Laura: Oh no. Wait, I can't see. I forgot my glasses.
Matt: Okay, you're right here.
Laura: Uh-huh.
Matt: You can try and back up this way if you wanted to get away.
Laura: Yeah, I'll try to back up towards, who is that?
Matt: That's Scanlan there. Oh, here?
Laura: Percy? I'll try to back towards Percy.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Over here?
Laura: Sure, yeah. Why not?
Matt: Okay, all right.
Sam: What's Trinket doing?
Laura: Well, Trinket's healed, and he's going to come with me.
Matt: Okay. So Trinket gets up and used half its 40 movement. It can move--
Laura: Although he's angry about it, because he wants to fight, but I just won't let him right now.
Matt: Okay, so as you rush away, the creature takes-- Ooh, that's a 26 to hit.
Laura: Aw, Jesus. Really?
Sam: Oh shit, does it hit Trinket, too?
Laura: No, just me.
Marisha: 26.
Laura: Trinket was too far away.
Matt: So you take 18 points of piercing damage. Oh, it's 3d10, sorry.
Laura: Oh. (laughs)
Matt: 19. I rolled a one for damage.
Laura: Oh, yay!
Matt: 19 points of piercing damage as its mouth lashes out, takes a chunk of your shoulder for a second, and you wrench yourself away and keep running.
Laura: Ugh.
Matt: Take the rest of your turn.
Laura: Ugh, okay. I'm going to shoot him.
Matt: Yes, you are.
Laura: Okay. That is 22.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: Okay. 14 for the first hit.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Second one is through the blazing bow, at 22.
Matt: Second one hits, first one misses, or did it hit?
Laura: Oh no, 14 was the damage to it.
Matt: For damage? All right, second one, blazing bow?
Laura: And then, (noises).
Sam: (noises)
Laura: (noises) Ugh. 16.
Matt: 16 damage, all right. Okay.
Laura: Oh, and I hide.
Matt: You currently are completely in its visual range. You have to be behind something to reasonably become hidden.
Laura: I'm hiding behind--
Taliesin: But you are behind me.
Laura: Percy.
Matt: No, behind a person doesn't work. It has to be, like, behind a pillar.
Marisha: Human shield.
Matt: Or in deep shadow.
Laura: (groans) Oh.
Matt: Something that would break your line of sight to it--
Travis: Like me.
Matt: For a moment, to the point where it no longer knows quite where you are.
Marisha: It works.
Taliesin: It totally works.
Laura: I hid in the wrong place.
Sam: Who said that? Who said that?
Laura: I went to the wrong place.
Matt: But now you know.
Laura: It's okay. Next time I know.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Putting glass for the dog--
Matt: That's your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to try and break the grapple.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20, yes.
Marisha: I can picture that. Why did you do that?
Matt: Because you are restrained--
Taliesin: Kicking myself.
Matt: Need to check what effect the condition-- Here. Just to be safe. Okay, yeah. Go ahead and you're making an athletics check.
Travis: Natural 20. (all cheer)
Travis: Oh, that was good.
Matt: All right, so--
Travis: I bite its tail.
Marisha: Yeah. (all laugh)
Laura: You can.
Travis: Son of a bitch! Ahhh!
Matt: As your teeth sink into one of its scales and you yank it out with the sheer force of your muscly neck.
Laura: Throw it over my way. I'll catch it.
Matt: It unfurls for a second, you manage to pull yourself out of its grasp.
Travis: I'm so pissed that I broke free, that I would like to use Intimidating Presence on this creature.
Matt: Okay. All right. That is an action to do that, though, isn't it?
Travis: Is it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Travis: I reserve Intimidating Presence--
Matt: For a later time.
Travis: (laughs) -- for a later time.
Matt: But you have a bonus action, still.
Travis: I hit the shit out of it. (all laugh)
Matt: You gain another attack, go for it.
Travis: Okay, 21.
Matt: 21 does hit.
Travis: All right, that's 22. 22! Sorry, 22 hits?
Matt: Also hits. One more.
Travis: Oh, I get one more.
Laura: Ha ha! Also 22.
Travis: Also 22.
Matt: "Hit" meaning--
Sam: You hit once.
Matt: It was one better than your previous--
Travis: Oh, got you.
Matt: You hit once, yeah.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: Just one hit.
Matt: Just one hit.
Sam: Just keep rolling 22s.
Laura: Just keep rolling.
Travis: Nine, ten, 11, 12. 15.
Matt: 15 points.
Travis: With fire damage!
Matt: All right, so, as you pull away, you reach back with your hammer and slam it into its side, causing this giant burst of fire--
Travis: Bitch.
Matt: To emanate from the impact. It shrinks back for a second and (growls).
Travis: You grabbed me. You ask first.
Taliesin: This is a repair die.
Matt: (laughs) All right, Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: I'm going to do my Bite and Claw attacks.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to move in that crux a little bit more, one more, if I can?
Matt: There? All righty.
Marisha: Beautiful. I'm going to do my claw attacks first.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: To see what they-- what it does.
Matt: What was it?
Marisha: It was cocked.
Sam: It was halfway between two.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So that's 12, plus, it's always different. Okay, 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: I haven't been Minxie in battle for a while, 1d10 plus five.
Laura: Plus your flaming claws.
Travis: (laughs) I love Minxie.
Laura: Don't forget your flaming claws.
Liam: She's got the plan.
Marisha: Yeah, six, so 11 damage for the claws.
Matt: An additional 1d6 fire damage.
Marisha: Plus 1d6, oh wait that's actually-- What did I just say? I said ten, 11? And then an extra 1d6?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Ooh, another four, so what did I say?
Sam: 15.
Matt: So, any of your claw attacks or any claw attacks you do in any of your forms now get an additional 1d6 fire damage.
Sam: Nice!
Travis: Hell yeah!
Sam: Nice!
Marisha: Then I'm going to do my bite attack.
Matt: All right, go for it. Your bite does not get the effect.
Laura: I know, it was really loud!
Travis: It was a good one.
Marisha: 16, so plus-- 20, plus my six, plus seven, so 24.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage for the bite.
Marisha: Which is 2d6. Eight plus five, so 12.
Matt: Eight plus five is 13.
Marisha: 13, 14! Plus, I get an extra damage for my collar, so 14.
Matt: Right. Cool. So, your flaming claw strikes across its outer body, its legs pull away from the pain as you reach up and bite into the edge of its tail. As its tail tries to whip away, you catch it and it pulls you forward a few feet as you clench down on it. Eventually, it yanks its way out, taking a couple of scales with it, you can see a streak where teeth marks are on the back of its tail.
Marisha: (growls)
Matt: Awesome. Does that end your turn?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Nice, Minxie!
Marisha: (growls)
Matt: Tiberius is going to go around the corner again and is going to cast Telekinesis and send his glaive up spinning.
Laura: Glaive?
Sam: He has a glaive?
Laura: The thing that he killed the old lady with.
Sam: Oh!
Liam: It's the granny grinder!
Marisha: Granny grinder?!
Matt: Granny grinder?!
Travis: So bad.
Matt: Rolls a two, unfortunately, though. Just streaks off and spins back around and then, while it misses the creature and stops, hovering above his head with a slow spin. Sits there curling his fingers, grinning at the creature. And is going to the use of the rest of this movement to go back behind the rock because mama didn't raise no fool. Vax, you're up.
Liam: It's preoccupied, so I just leisurely walk backwards about 30 feet, looking at the same wound that I started before.
Matt: This way?
Liam: No, back up the chasm here. Even further away. Yeah! And I'm just going to throw three daggers into the wound I already hit, so I'm going to do that again. I know that hits because it hit the last time. That's a 23.
Matt: That hits!
Liam: And that's Sneak Attack because he's occupied. That's 11 plus--
Laura: Ooh, those are good!
Liam: 11 plus 17, 21, 26, 29, 34, 39 for the first dagger.
Sam: What, that's just the first dagger?!
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: Whoa!
Matt: Sneak Attack, man.
Liam: Next one doesn't hit, probably, that's a 17.
Matt: 17 just barely hits.
Liam: Just barely hits, yeah! That is an eight of damage. And just wait a second and go-- and throw it. And because I was such a cock it misses, that's a 16.
Matt: So, oh, perfect! Second dagger wedges in with the second dagger, opening the wound even more. You're like, perfect opening! You go for the third one, and it's grown wise to it, and turns around and rakes its claw out and deflects the dagger midair.
Liam: Vex, look at me! Oh, shit.
Laura: Nice one! Nice!
Matt: That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Oh! This is unusual.
Marisha: A turn.
Sam: I still have my Bigby's Hand up, so I do one of these where I say, oh, a wise guy, see? (taunting noises) and I just poke him in the eyes.
Matt: All right, as you say "Wise guy, eh?" as this giant hand's floating in the air, and its head snarls at it and tries to bite at the hand. Go ahead and roll your spell attack.
Sam: 19.
Matt: So, you get to go ahead and--
Sam: 4d8.
Matt: Yeah, 4d8 points of force damage.
Marisha: It's the eyes!
Laura: Into the eyeballs!
Sam: 19.
Matt: 19 points of force damage as you jam both its fingers into the sides of its head. Both of its eyes recoil on it, it reaches out and starts thrashing at the air around as the hand dodges around for a minute.
Sam: I hide behind Trinket, the smell of smoldering fur in my nose. As a bonus action, I will-- who's up next, who's coming soon? Is Percy next?
Taliesin: I'm up next.
Sam: I'll inspire Percy. Just doing this move--
Marisha: Sexy dance.
Sam: Going, pour some Scanlan on you! When you need a hand! That's all I've got.
Taliesin: Ugh!
Sam: And I get closer. Pour some Scanlan on you!
Matt: You begrudgingly take 1d10 inspiration dice from Scanlan.
Travis: Is the creature blinded from the pokey-poke?
Matt: It is not. It is a resilient creature, and the impact was mainly absorbed by the ocular sockets, as opposed to the eyes themselves.
Travis: Hey, I didn't ask for science. Jesus. (all laugh)
Matt: There's bone around-- never mind. All right. It ends Scanlan's turn. Percy, you're up.
Travis: (laughs) Just a little pokey.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to try and fix this broken piece of gosa.
Sam: Do I lose another spell for that, or is that just the same--?
Matt: No, you can maintain concentration.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: I hit a 12, which is just barely enough to fix it.
Matt: Okay. So you take your action to go ahead and repair the gun.
Taliesin: And I'm going to burn an Action Surge, so I'm just-- I finally get it, and it just starts going. And I'm just going to empty out the chamber.
Matt: All right, three shots.
Marisha: (laughs) It just starts going.
Taliesin: Ho, nelly.
Matt: Using your bonus action to reload.
Travis: I got my finger on the trigger, I got my finger on the trigger, gun!
Taliesin: I don't have to reload, yet, I've got six shots, so we're still three in the chamber.
Matt: That's right. We-- yeah, yeah.
Taliesin: Unless you, actually--
Matt: As part of the misfire, you would lose one, so you have two in the chamber right now.
Taliesin: I have two in the chamber?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Okay, so I'll do two, and then use the third one to reload.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Pew, pew.
Laura: (high-pitched) Pew, pew.
Taliesin: All right, so-- Ooh, this'll be fun.
Sam: Don't shoot me.
Taliesin: Sharpshooter shot. That's 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Travis: Nice.
Taliesin: I'll just take the second shot right now. That's-- really? Really? Really, are we going there?
Laura: Oh, no.
Sam: Did he misfire again?
Marisha: No, you didn't misfire, did you?
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: Misfired again. I rolled a two.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: I got one shot off.
Matt: You got one shot off. Go ahead and roll damage. Sharpshooter damage, so it gets the plus ten damage.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: That's fun.
Laura: Could you have added inspiration dice to that?
Taliesin: To a misfire? No.
Matt: No, misfire still hits. There is a lot of strengths to the gunslinger. This is the one penalty, is if you roll bad.
Taliesin: So that's, okay, at least this is a badass, as I at least did some damage. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 24 damage, plus four points of fire damage.
Matt: Nice. Okay. So, as you go, and you fix it-- It takes the first shot, with a burst of flame that shoots out the front of the barrel. The second shot, this time, the actual metal in the front arcs upward, and it looks like this is going to take a moment, to really seriously repair it. Pepperbox is coming through pretty rough in this fight.
Laura: Oh, no. Oh no.
Matt: So that's your turn.
Travis: But not as rough as Stitch over there, huh?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: We're in a group.
Matt: Yeah. (laughs) The creature does regain use of its Lightning Breath.
Liam: Right.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Oh, I was about to say, and--
Matt: So you wanna move anywhere?
Taliesin: Yeah, I wanna get a little further back. I wanna roll to the other side of the cave again, if possible.
Matt: Which way? You mean over here?
Taliesin: Yeah. Like, see that little outcropping of rock?
Matt: Right here?
Taliesin: Further back. Like that over there.
Marisha: That little chunky thing?
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Smart move, Percy.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: That thing scares me.
Laura: Why are you abandoning me?
Matt: Okay. That ends Percy's turn.
Taliesin: The beast.
Marisha: I don't like the dice that I have.
Travis: Don't think too hard.
Taliesin: That's not good.
Sam: No.
Laura: It just burps out lightning.
Travis: Jesus, I don't think we've ever seen anything this hard.
Laura: I know.
Liam: Guys, guys.
Sam: What is he doing?
Liam: Guys.
Marisha: Have you seen anything like it?
Sam: What is he doing?
Liam: Guys.
Laura: He's thinking.
Liam: Guys.
Sam: We broke the DM.
Laura: I know.
Travis: You know the silence before the storm?
Matt: Considering optimal--
Laura: This is bad.
Liam: He erupts.
Travis: He hasn't said anything.
Matt: All right. So. (all groan)
Marisha: You stared at that for a really long time.
Sam: Here comes the other three.
Travis: Here comes the boom?
Matt: So, this behir is going to shift back here. You get an attack of opportunity on it, Keyleth. So go ahead and take a swing.
Liam: Burn it.
Sam: Fire slap!
Marisha: So. 16.
Matt: 16 just misses. It gets right out of your grasp. The flames just lick across the outside of its scales. As it pulls back, rears down right in your face, Godzilla-style, just unleashes a burst of electrical energy.
Laura: Oh, God. Dodge it. Dodge it.
Matt: It hits you and Keyleth. I need you guys to both make dexterity saving throws.
Sam: With inspiration.
Marisha: Who, me and Grog? Okay.
Sam: With inspiration.
Travis: I don't need it.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: Dexterity saves? That's not good.
Travis: 19.
Marisha: Four.
Matt: 33 points of lightning damage to you, Grog. 66 to you.
Travis: Can I use my Stone's Endurance?
Matt: You can.
Travis: Okay.
Taliesin: What?!
Matt: What's the maximum health of Minxie's form?
Marisha: Looking-- I'm out.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm now in Keyleth form.
Matt: And how much damage goes over?
Marisha: Not that many, thank God. 12.
Matt: 12. Okay, so you-- As Minxie all of a sudden gets blasted, you can see the form shrink down to Keyleth's crumpled form on the ground, hands still flaming, little bit of singe to the back of her hair, and stands back up.
Taliesin: I'll take that. I'll take that. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: That'll end its turn. Vex, you're up.
Marisha: That felt like Shockwave.
Laura: Oh, God. Can I, as a bonus action, give Trinket a healing potion?
Matt: You can-- that would be more of an action to feed it to something else.
Laura: Okay, never mind. I am going to attack it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Okay. He's, oh, I missed. That's a 14.
Matt: A 14 does not hit, unfortunately. The first arrow just ricochets and shatters across the part of its body.
Laura: Great. Good times, good times. 16. Both miss. Fucking A. What a waste.
Matt: Both arrows just explode across its hide. It's too thick.
Laura: This dice is out for the rest of the game. I'm gonna run. Is there an outcropping where we are? I can't see.
Matt: Right here, a little bit. If you pull fully in on this side from where it--
Laura: I'm going to pull fully in on that side.
Matt: Okay. Don't forget your laser pointers, by the way, guys. It's good for letting me know exactly where you want to go.
Laura: I can't see.
Matt: I know. Just so you know. And Trinket's going to stay there?
Laura: He's gonna rest. And he's going to keep protecting Scanlan, because--
Matt: All right. Trinket's gonna stay right there, guarding the giant gnome.
Sam: Oh, thank you. Giant gnome?
Matt: Giant hand, small gnome. Grog, you're up.
Travis: (yells) I try and match the Godzilla roar, it's not really as good, and I swing three times with my fire hammer.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: That's a 18.
Matt: 18. That hits.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Travis: And 19.
Matt: 19 hits. Roll damage.
Laura: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: That anus! That's 13.
Laura: Eee, good.
Travis: 23, and 22.
Matt: All righty. How do you want to do this? (all yell)
Taliesin: But you never said he looked a little rough! I kept waiting for you to say it's looking a little rough.
Matt: It's hard to tell with this entity.
Taliesin: Damn it!
Matt: It's moving so fast.
Travis: I'd like to reach up with my firebrand warhammer.
Sam: Yes!
Travis: And I would like to smash it on top of its skull, and when it hits the ground, I'd just like to keep turning it into jelly and paste and sweet jams that I can bottle it up and sell later!
Matt: You guys watch this continuous barrage, this horrible bludgeoning. Every impact almost quakes the inside of this valley. Rocks are beginning to tumble and fall around it. And you can see, as each horrible, sickening smack, its head just collapses more and more. The mush begins to spill out from under it, this giant pool of, like, dark violet liquid and gelatinous mush that was once the inside of its head, begin to just grow around it as Grog just keeps hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting--
Marisha: Grog? Grog?
Matt: And hitting and hitting--
Laura: Grog?
Sam: I use Bigby's Hand to stop the hammer.
Laura: Maybe you unrage. Lullaby, Hulk. Lullaby.
Sam: It's over. It's over.
Marisha: Lullaby?!
Travis: Lullaby?!
Sam: Think of the beard.
Travis: What happened?
Taliesin: Well.
Laura: You killed it real good!
Travis: Oh, look, we made jelly.
Marisha: Speaking of jelly, I would like to go ahead and do a nature check to see if I can salvage some goods from whatever.
Laura: I run, I walk up to it and kick it, and say, that's for Trinket. Dick.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Can I roll a hit dice to recover some--
Matt: If you guys want to take a short rest, you can.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: That'd be great.
Taliesin: Yes! I would like to fix my gun. Just a giant pile of tools.
Laura: Do we need to hide? Do we need to climb up to its little cave that it was in, maybe? And hide.
Sam: Did it have a cave?
Travis: Was it in a cave?
Laura: It had a cave. Didn't it come out of a cave, when we saw it?
Matt: You saw it was up on a higher platform, you didn't see a cavern, or anything.
Laura: Oh, I thought it was a cave.
Marisha: I rolled a 21 to collect goods.
Matt: Okay, looking through the book that you have. You eventually take a while to look while you guys are having your short rest. You can use your hit dice to heal yourself. It is known as a behir.
Sam: A behir?
Matt: B-E-H-I-R.
Marisha: B-E-H-I-R.
Taliesin: Behir.
Travis: Be here.
Laura: Be here right now. Be present.
Matt: Behir. There are two things. Anything in the face and teeth are gone. They are just mush. The entire head is destroyed.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: The the two things in the book that are worthwhile, like, really worth money, are some of its hide can be repurposed for, you know, like, lightning resist-based armor, but currently it's unknown who has the speciality to actually work with that material. These creatures are difficult to harvest and a lot of their locations are unknown. A lot of them were hunted down for that long ago and almost thought to have gone extinct. (all groan)
Matt: However, yes, you don't know anybody, possibly Karin in Emon. The hide can be harvested. There is also a gland in its throat that it uses to charge its Lightning Breath.
Taliesin: I'd like that.
Marisha: I'd like that.
Matt: Go ahead and roll for the hide first, if you guys want to go for that.
Laura: Can I stealth and climb up and see if I can see a cavern?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: A little cave.
Marisha: Natural 20!
Travis: Oh snap!
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: I'll take it.
Sam: She gets advantage because mountains are her favorite terrain.
Laura: What do I add to that?
Matt: This would be, add your--
Laura: Acrobatics?
Matt: For climb, this would be athletics.
Laura: Athletics. Oh, really? That's not what it was; I moved it.
Liam: It was 14, I saw it.
Laura: Oh no, 12.
Matt: It takes you a little bit to get up there. It's steep, you slide down a few times. But eventually, because there's no immediate threat, you're given time to get up onto this upper platform. You can see that there are these various parts of the rock that jut outward, that have some short term passageways that this creature uses.
Laura: I'm so weak, but I'm holding to see if I see a cave.
Matt: (laughs) Roll a perception check.
Laura: (groans)
Matt: Once you're up there. You take time and with help from some other folks, you manage to harvest, I'd say about ten pounds worth of scales at most. It's not a whole lot. A lot of it has been torn and destroyed from the impact and damage you guys did. Parts of it are not really armory functional, but you manage to get enough to maybe make one set if somebody manages to work really well with it.
Marisha: Here, Grog, bag of holding.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23? Currently, you have no eye shot on any particular--
Sam: Don't eat it, Grog.
Matt: -- tunnels. Nothing that resembles an abode or a cavern from this position.
Taliesin: Lick it.
Laura: (groans)
Liam: I see my sister's struggling.
Laura: Oh god it hurts.
Liam: I climb up next to her.
Laura: You're almost as weak as I am, dude.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Here we go.
Liam: Acrobatics? What is it?
Matt: Athletics.
Laura: Athletics.
Travis: Athletics.
Liam: Athletics? Oh, shit. Acrobatics would have been much better.
Travis: Oh yeah, c'mon.
Laura: I know, I don't think so.
Liam: Can I flip up there?
Matt: Eh, it doesn't work like that.
Liam: No, no-- (all laugh)
Travis: No, I can't.
Liam: Wait, I'll use Luck. I'll do it again to get--
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: You're going to use one of your Lucks?
Liam: -- to get past that one.
Laura: No, we were about to rest. Wow.
Liam: Oh, no, I didn't.
Laura: Oh, really, you rolled worse than me.
Liam: Oh no, my fingernail, that really stings. Damn it.
Matt: The twins give a--
Marisha: Just terrible.
Matt: -- terrible display of rock climbing in the middle of this.
Travis: I laugh heartily.
Taliesin: Parkour! Parkour!
Matt: Go ahead and roll for the glands.
Marisha: The glands?
Liam: Stupid video game moment of like jump, jump, jump, jump.
Laura: Like Skyrim trying to get--
Marisha: Glands? 18 is not bad. I'll take that 18 for a 28. Hey, Vax, can I see your dagger?
Liam: Yeah, here you go.
Sam: He's up a hill.
Laura: Nice. We didn't even get up a little bit.
Matt: It takes most of your short rest. You will not be able to use your hit dice for healing on this, because you spend your time harvesting instead. But you manage to-- thankfully, the damage that Grog had inflicted upon its head destroyed most of its matter, right up to the throat gland which is mostly untouched. It's salvageable. You don't know how much it's worth. Probably a decent amount, as the book says that they're rare. Especially to find intact.
Travis: That Grog, what a dick.
Taliesin: We have jars. I'm going to put that into the jar and put it away.
Travis: There's not even like a tooth. Like one broken tooth? A piece?
Matt: You did a number on that one's face.
Travis: When Grog goes to work. LIAM Boom. Kill the behir, take its glands, money.
Taliesin: I may have something I can do with this actually.
Travis: With what, the gland?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Maybe, yes. (electricity noises)
Taliesin: You're very clever, yes. We'll work on that.
Travis: Hello? I don't speak your language.
Matt: You place it within a preservation jar.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Back in the bag of holding?
Taliesin: Back in the bag of holding.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and fix this mess, for a minute.
Matt: Go ahead and make your check.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18. It does cost you half the--
Taliesin: It wasn't a dual fail.
Matt: Oh right, just a single fail. It was a dual fail, but it was separate.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You take some time with it during the short rest to tinker with it. You manage to bend the metal back in place. Test it for a bit. Make sure the aspects that move move smoothly as they should. Eventually, you get pretty confident that it is back to a functional piece of weaponry. All right, so, as you guys finish this rest--
Travis: I'm rolling one more hit dice.
Matt: Go for it. The sky is starting to get a little bit into the orangish color. Though you can not see the sun from its current location, you gather you have about an hour and a half or so before full sundown.
Sam: Let's get out of this little taco in case that was the daughter of something else.
Matt: Wait, you guys stayed the night-- never mind, in the cavern. So actually, no, I take that back.
Sam: Oh?
Matt: I just realized you guys stayed the night last time over on the seaside cavern and walked here--
Travis: That's right.
Matt: -- and it only took you a few hours to get here. So, no, it'd be about mid-day noon.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So, I take that back. Never mind.
Liam: Ah.
Sam: We should still go.
Matt: Can see the sun, it is straight above.
Taliesin: We should still get out of the taco.
Matt: There is some cloud cover coming in.
Travis: Definitely should still leave.
Matt: From the north side, it doesn't look like anything too dense.
Marisha: Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Marisha: Do you know how much longer we need to continue on this path?
Taliesin: Honestly, I've never taken this road before. This is further east than I've ever come.
Marisha: Can we see how far ahead-- does it look like it goes on for a while, this chasm?
Matt: It moves around, so it's hard to get to much of a visual of the--
Taliesin: The geology starting to look familiar?
Laura: Does my tracking tell me anything?
Matt: You can go ahead and make a nature check.
Liam: For all of this, I'd like to--
Matt: With advantage.
Liam: -- walk about 40 feet in front of everyone and creep along.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 17.
Liam: Cloak up.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Sam: He's a weird loner, that guy.
Travis: He is.
Liam: It's my job.
Matt: Make a stealth check. The mountains here got its name for the white stone mountains. The rock--
Taliesin: It's starting to look like home, though?
Matt: Yeah. The mountain range here is a large part of the material that is mined, well, was mined beneath the-- It's very rare white quartz-like rock that is used for many purposes. And it's generally only found in this mountain range. It's what a lot of the Whitestone's original economy was based on.
Liam: 22.
Matt: 22, good to know. All right, so.
Laura: 17 on nature.
Matt: Okay. I mean, you gather the same thing. The rock formations here match the same as the coastal mountains. The mountain here is all made of the same material, few deposits here and there of just normal bits of granite and other forms of simple stone.
Laura: Granite.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Simple stone. (all laugh)
Travis: That was so much better than shopping. (all laugh)
Matt: As you guys are pressing forward, at this point, you guys are taking your time waiting and Tiberius is getting impatient, and is crossing his arms. "I feel like I should have gotten more materials. I don't think I'm quite prepared enough for this."
Laura: What? Tiberius, you prepared a lot.
Liam: Tibs.
Matt: "Not enough. Never enough".
Liam: You brought along a sack of mirrors, I think you've got enough. What do you need?
Matt: "I have an idea. I'll be back in a few days."
All: What, no?
Sam: Don't leave.
Matt: He sits down and starts making his teleportation circle.
Laura: No, no, we need that!
Liam: Tiberius.
Laura: We need that.
Liam: Tiberius.
Laura: We need that. Tiberius.
Liam: You are a heavy hitter, we don't know where we're going, what we're doing. He's strong. You're strong, in a way, maybe hang out a little bit longer.
Laura: He's actually got a lot of hit points, really.
Travis: Yeah, he's got a lot.
Matt: (laughs)
Liam: More than I do. You're stronger in frame than I am. Sure you want to go?
Matt: Tiberius leans in and whispers to you in a strange tongue and it sparks in your ear somewhere. (whispers) "The player's not here and the DM's trying to not make it too complicated for him to keep track of an additional character for this session." (all laugh)
Laura: I understand that.
Liam: (whispers) I know, but I'm just trying to give you a hard time. (all laugh)
Matt: I'll remember that.
Laura: Oh, no.
Taliesin: I grab Lockheed and we hold him hostage. (all laugh)
Marisha: You can't leave! (all laugh)
Laura: We need you.
Matt: "Don't worry, I'll be back soon and now I know how to find you."
Liam: (whispers) Send an iPad with Pike on it. (all laugh)
Matt: He finishes his teleportation circle and with a whoosh, with a flash, vanishes.
Laura: Shit. Really, Tiberius, really?
Marisha: He does that a lot.
Sam: It's very much in his character.
Laura: (groans)
Travis: Where'd Tiberius go?
Liam: He went to get an army, I think.
Laura: (groans)
Travis: That's fine.
Taliesin: Or more mirrors.
Marisha: It might be more mirrors.
Taliesin: Or an army with mirrors.
Marisha: An army with mirrors.
Liam: I can do magic. I do this great coin trick thing where I flip it on my thumb and then it lands in my hand.
Laura: And then, you pull it--
Liam: That's the end of it.
Laura: -- out of someone's ear.
Liam: It's right here.
Laura: Whoa!
Travis: We start walking.
Marisha: That's fun.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, I'm walking.
Matt: Progressing forward--
Marisha: It's a start.
Matt: -- you begin to--
Travis: Jauntily stealth ahead.
Liam: 40 feet out, yeah.
Travis: Like a beagle.
Laura: I keep a perception out to see anything.
Taliesin: I'm keeping an eye open for anything familiar.
Sam: Can I just bump into Vex and ask her to maybe scan ahead for dragons?
Laura: What do you think I'm doing?
Sam: Dragons, though. Six miles.
Laura: I'm scanning.
Sam: Don't you have six miles of dragons or something? Thank you.
Taliesin: Do you have to do the hands?
Travis: Is that your scanning face?
Matt: It's good to help out in the--
Laura: I'm thinking.
Sam: Six miles of dragons.
Laura: I'm wanting to see if I see any dragons. Do I see any dragons?
Travis: I thought you did a different technique last time.
Matt: You take a moment and anticipate the circumstance, and there is, within-- what's the distance on it?
All: Six miles.
Matt: Six miles?
Liam: Yeah, man.
Matt: You ascertain that there are quite a few sources of life in this vicinity, of some sort of dragon kin or dragon-like entity.
Laura: Was the behir a dragony sort of thing?
Matt: No. Technically not, from what you can gather, but you do gather there are a few blips that are three miles off north, at the center of the mountain range. You don't know how big or how dangerous, but you sense there are some dragon or dragon kin sources.
Laura: There's a dragony something.
Sam: Could be dragon eggs.
Marisha: Dragonborn?
Laura: I don't know, Scanlan.
Marisha: You're not picking up Tiberius six miles away?
Laura: There's dragony things, though.
Sam: Listen. When I poo somewhere, I can see everything.
Laura: I didn't poo. I'm sensing with my mind.
Travis: Listen, if we do run across a dragon, remember we have the dragon slayer longsword, which is a plus one to attack and damage rolls, and if you hit a dragon or a dragon creature, it gets an extra 3d6 of damage.
Laura: What are you reading? How did you even know that?
Taliesin: That's the most complicated sentence I think I've ever heard you speak.
Travis: Sorry, I blacked out for a little bit. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Nothing.
Laura: Nothing. You're good, Grog.
Travis: What do you have to do to attunement?
Matt: Attunement, you take a short rest with the weapon, learning its properties.
Travis: Caressing it?
Matt: Essentially. Stroking it, making sure it feels comfortable.
Taliesin: Buying it dinner.
Matt: Nice spread so it feels welcome.
Travis: That's more than I usually do.
Laura: Maybe a steak, some salad. Shrimp cocktail.
Travis: Just in case you need a sword.
Liam: As we progress, I say into my earring, Scanlan, I've seen some of the logs she's left behind. They're not small.
Laura: (gasps) You are seriously. What?
Taliesin: Wow.
Laura: That's disgusting.
Travis: I missed it. It must be good, though.
Sam: She usually buries them quite well.
Laura: Really gross, both of you. Enough.
Liam: They don't sense anything.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: Well, we're not heading north.
Sam: We're not?
Matt: You guys are heading eastish.
Taliesin: Westish. We're heading westish.
Laura: Nothing that I can sense.
Travis: Can we keep walking?
Matt: You guys came up on the eastern side-- sorry, the western side of the mountains. You're now heading eastward.
Taliesin: Oh, we came up on the western side of the mountains?
Laura: There's nothing that we're going to run across.
Liam: Just flip that.
Marisha: Western side of the mountains?
Taliesin: Western side of the mountains? So Whitestone's to the east?
Matt: Whitestone would be to the east of you guys.
Taliesin: Oh, okay. I thought we went up the eastern side of the mountains. I'm so confused. You wouldn't think I'd lived here before.
Matt: That would have brought you through the forest, and you were trying to avoid that. That's what I thought you said last time.
Taliesin: No, that's very true. Oh, god.
Travis: West side's on the shore side, right? Ocean's there?
Matt: There's a giant peninsula to the north. Either side would have been coast.
Laura: So we're not going to run into any dragons?
Sam: At least we're not going north.
Matt: You're aware that they're not anywhere close to you to currently be an issue, no.
Laura: Okay, we're fine.
Taliesin: In two or three miles, we'll take another check.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: (laughs) He winked at me!
Matt: All right, so.
Travis: It's like being blessed.
Sam: We're going to just keep going towards the town.
Matt: You guys press on, following this winding path that narrows at certain points and then widens for a bit. You come across, partway through, the twins at the front notice, around the edges as it begins to descend down into the beginning of the valley descent, you see an edge of the mountain that looks more angular than the usual natural formations of it. It almost looks like it comes to a point, like a very sharp edge, and a smooth side.
Liam: I'm not sure I understand. We see a drop-off?
Matt: It begins to descend towards the valley, and on the side of one of the giant--
Travis: Chasms?
Matt: Chasm you guys are at the bottom of. You see an outcropping ahead that's angular and pointed.
Sam: Like, designed by man?
Matt: Like it was sculpted, constructed.
Travis: That might have sentries.
Liam: Some sort of outlook or something. Something that was not formed by nature here.
Taliesin: Do I know what this is?
Matt: You--
Taliesin: History check?
Matt: I'd say, make an intelligence check. Roll and add your intelligence modifier.
Travis: I could do it with you, if you want.
Matt: You can make a history check. You know many things that exist here in the mountains, but at this distance, you don't see enough of it to actually--
Laura: (shocked noise)
Travis: He's not going to let me do it.
Laura: He rolled a natural 20.
Matt: For?
Travis: An intelligence check, because I'm an idiot.
Sam: He doesn't know the--
Taliesin: I kind of want Grog to speak truth right here.
Laura: He's an expert on mountains.
Matt: Actually, this works out interestingly. As you guys are walking forward and you're seeing this, and you're keeping back, Grog, you instinctively look over and go, oh. That's a stone giant fortress.
All: Oh!
Marisha: Shut up!
Travis: (laughs) I did something smart! (all laugh)
Matt: With your bloodline and knowing where you come from, and you've had a few close encounters in the Cliffkeep Mountains with a few of this kind, you've seen a few fortresses, and from the details of it, the way of the roof, and the scope of its design, and the way the mountain range lends itself to that type of topography, yeah. This is obviously a stone giant fortress.
Travis: Oh, and I drank some of that nasty dank in the fight with the Hammer, round two.
Sam: Wait, should we-- those are bad guys, right?
Travis: Yeah, that's bad.
Sam: We should not go that way.
Laura: We should definitely stay away from that.
Travis: Maybe go up on the other side of the chasm opposite of it?
Matt: Or you can move around the side, you're welcome to.
Laura: Maybe hide and make sure we're hidey-hidey?
Sam: We could stealth through it, we could invisible through it.
Marisha: Pass Without a Trace.
Travis: Pass Without a Trace.
Laura: I have Pass Without a Trace.
Travis: And climb along the opposite side.
Laura: And do we have invisibil--oh, no.
Taliesin: No, we don't, no.
Laura: You have--
Sam: I have some invisibility. Not great, though.
Travis: I have dust of tracelessness.
Laura: Maybe we'll stealth it.
Liam: Can I hide Scanlan under my cloak? Can he use his invisibility on someone else?
Matt: If he was to cast Invisibility on you--
Liam: No, on somebody else, so I'd just hide him.
Travis: What about one of those things that always works on me--
Matt: You could--
Travis: -- a diversion?
Matt: You would move very slow and you would have disadvantage on your stealth checks because you guys don't have a way to move quietly.
Liam: All right, all right.
Laura: No, I don't want to bring any attention.
Marisha: I could create a diversion.
Sam: What kind?
Laura: Like what?
Marisha: I mean, I could-- What's nearby? Is anything nearby? Any animals? Have we seen any wildlife?
Matt: There have been birds that fly through, an occasional harpy, in the distance you hear screeching and you guys keep quiet until it vanishes and disappears. (screech in the background music)
Taliesin: Wow.
Travis: That was perfect timing!
Laura: How'd that happen? How did that frickin' happen?
Travis: His ways are mysterious, my love.
Laura: You are magic.
Matt: I am lucky.
Taliesin: Holy cow.
Matt: What were some seafaring like seagulls and various coastal birds have slowly been disappearing and turning into more eagles and hawks, things that eat small rodents, more of a lush side of the hill. You see as you get closer to the valley itself that the actual forest that surrounds Whitestone is more and more of these birds of prey are beginning to show up. Other than that, you see very few small things other than occasional lizards about that big in your hand that live on hot rocks.
Taliesin: Should we observe this encampment for a bit, just to see what's happening as we slowly make our way around it?
Laura: Can we see any kind of movement? It's really far away, or--?
Travis: Couldn't hurt.
Matt: It's still a ways away right now, you're just catching the edge of it.
Sam: Are we a mile away? A thousand feet away?
Matt: I'd say you're about a good 600, 700 feet from it.
Liam: That's not that far.
Travis: You know, we could try to work our way up the opposite side of the chasm.
Taliesin: That would also allow us a good view of it as well.
Marisha: I happen to have Hallucinatory Terrain right now.
Sam: What does that even mean?
Marisha: It means exactly what it sounds like.
Sam: I don't speak your language.
Marisha: I can make terrain that's not real.
Liam: Do you remember when we psyched out the duergar--
Sam: It would block their view of us maybe? Perhaps?
Laura: Is it movable?
Travis: Yeah, it can't move with us.
Marisha: It could block their view of us.
Liam: Can you make some shrubs to come along with us?
Matt: You guys actually used it previously to camp for a night along a cliffside.
Laura: Right.
Matt: And made the cliff extend further than it was.
Liam: Yeah, we lured a bunch of duergar into a chasm that the ground extended over.
Laura: Let's try to climb up the other side and then see what we can see.
Marisha: I mean, I can do a lot of things, I can make a thunderstorm, I can make a sleet storm.
Sam: That would keep them in their fortress.
Travis: Could you make it fire?
Marisha: I could.
Taliesin: Or very cold if they came out.
Laura: They like cold.
Taliesin: Oh, yes.
Marisha: I could, I could make a big storm.
Travis: We're also on a chasm, so if it gets wet and slippery and muddy we might all go down.
Taliesin: That's true.
Laura: Maybe get up at the top of it and then do this.
Taliesin: I like the plan of going up the other side of the chasm.
Laura: Can we try to climb the other side?
Matt: Certainly.
Liam: Giants like to throw fucking boulders.
Laura: Yeah, I don't wanna be down on the bottom.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: As you guys make your way up the other side, you're helping each other, I want everyone to go ahead and make an athletics check.
Sam: I put on my climbing gear, which I definitely own.
Marisha: An athletics check?
Matt: Okay, giving you advantage on your athletics check.
Laura: I actually own climbing gear too, does that help?
Matt: That would help you, yes.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: I have mine too, so I'll put that on as well.
Marisha: I don't know if I have climbing--
Taliesin: I don't know if I have climbing gear.
Travis: Attached to a rope and a grappling hook that's in my hand.
Sam: And it was the same. (laughs)
Matt: All right. So.
Sam: What am I doing? Adding what?
Travis: Fuck yeah! Nipple tits.
Matt: You have advantage, you add your strength modifier. Or your athletics is what it would be.
Sam: Athletics.
Laura: Do we add anything because of the climbing gear or is it?
Matt: You get advantage because of the climbing gear.
Laura: Ah, that's important.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26.
Liam: We were all using climbing gear or just--
Matt: No, those who have it.
Laura: I give you my climbing gear because I already get advantage. How about that? Does that count? No.
Matt: Because it is mountain? All right, I'll let you do that.
Laura: All right.
Liam: All right, well, I got 19.
Matt: 19.
Laura: Oh, so you don't need that.
Liam: Yes I do, I need it.
Sam: 11.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26. Vex, what did you get?
Laura: I got 15.
Marisha: 11.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: Okay. A couple of missteps and almost sliding, Keyleth, at one point, you grasp her by the hand and Grog pulls her back up onto the platform.
Travis: No, no, up here.
Marisha: Thanks, Grog.
Matt: Over time, you guys make your way along this very rocky and precarious, anywhere from five to three to two feet in width, sometimes even lesser than that and you guys are having to shimmy across. You make your way around and you can see this large fortress that is built out of extremely large and in-place stones and stonework. It looks ancient. For size-wise, it's two stories for a giant, which means it's probably close to six or seven stories of height.
Laura: Whoa.
Matt: Built into the side of a mountain, and it goes down almost like two giant steps. It's built on essentially where the giant bowl, the caldera if you will, of where this valley of this mountain range would be. It's built on the inside of it, so it's actually constructed, as you continue to descend into the valley. Looking at it, you can see openings, windows, there are areas up top where you see giant piles of rocks and boulders that are used for anti-siege, for throwing off the top, stockpiles of that. You do see boulders around the ground that may have been thrown and not picked up. Everyone make a perception check.
Laura: I feel-- (whispers) Should I say?
Liam: (whispers) I'm not gonna tell you.
Taliesin: That's an intimidation check.
Laura: How did Trinket get up the cavern?
Matt: Hm?
Laura: Can Trinket climb?
Matt: Trinket--
Taliesin: Bears climb!
Marisha: Bears are good climbers.
Laura: They're good climbers?
Taliesin: They can get up a tree.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Roll an athletics check with disadvantage.
Sam: Disadvantage.
Laura: I'm sorry! But it felt wrong to lie.
Matt: Rangers.
Sam: Of course. It's an honor system.
Liam: Could I have given the climbing gear to Trinket?
Laura: No.
Travis: No. (all laugh)
Taliesin: You could've, it just would've been adorable.
Laura: But we could tie the rope around Trinket's waist.
Matt: Roll your dice.
Laura: With an athletics check?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Does he get an advantage because of mountains?
Marisha: I love that he says 'roll your dice' like it matters.
Matt: Nope. He gets disadvantage because he's a big bear.
Travis: I told her not to say it, why'd you say it?
Laura: I'm just trying to be honest!
Matt: Which is appreciated.
Laura: Strength modifier? He got a 15, too.
Matt: Okay. It's been difficult, and it slowed your guys' progression, but you've managed to keep Trinket along with you; this large bear is now like pushing against the side. He's managed to keep up, but it's been a harrowing experience.
Liam: I've been behind him the whole time, pushing on his buttocks.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: You got this buddy, you got this.
Matt: So, once again, perception rolls.
Laura: Sorry. Yes.
Taliesin: 20.
Marisha: 19.
Sam: 17.
Liam: Can I use passive perception?
Matt: This is active actually looking for something; the passive is more--
Liam: Well then, I get-- 26.
Travis: 15.
Laura: 19.
Matt: All right. You got 26, you said?
Liam: Yep.
Matt: Looking from this distance, and keeping the best visual you can see, there is no movement, at all, from the interior of the fortress. The two front doors, you see these two large stone doors that are the entrance to it. One of the doors is actually broken in half and left partially ajar and open.
Travis: We gotta go in now.
Laura: No, no, no.
Sam: They could be dead in there.
Laura: If something could've taken out giant giants. What could it be that could've done that?
Travis: Vampire giants.
Taliesin: It could've been the Briarwoods. We should see everything that's up here.
Sam: (sings) There are giants in the sky.
Travis: How awesome would that be?
Laura: (sings) There are big, tall, terrible giants in the sky.
Travis: Can we please go see? Can someone please--
Sam: You want me to go in?
Travis: Vax!?
Marisha: I can bird it. I can bird it and go in.
Taliesin: I can't believe I'm about to say this.
Marisha: Bird in and do a recon mission real quick?
Sam: You're going to bird in? They're going to see you fly in.
Laura: No, but she's a bird.
Marisha: I'm a bird.
Sam: It doesn't matter, they're still gonna see you.
Laura: Recon it.
Marisha: I'll go bat!
Laura: Yeah!
Taliesin: Now you're not going to be able to see anything because they have terrible eyesight.
Marisha: Not in a small--
Taliesin: I'm kidding, they really don't. That's a myth! That's actually a myth!
Marisha: They have echo vision!
Taliesin: They have actually very reasonable eyesight. That's a myth. You can look it up on Wikipedia, it's true.
Marisha: (laughs) Very reasonable eyesight.
Liam: You could also be a sparrow.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So, at about the two in the afternoon day sun, 'cause that's what it is. But you're fine. You become a bat--
Marisha: Bats come out during the day!
Matt: I know. She makes her way, down through; you swoop up to one of the windows and you glance inside and look around. You can see most of the furniture inside is in tatters. There are large, giant-sized tables and chairs that have been broken in half and strewn across the room. Make a perception check.
Laura: Ooh, come on, Keyleth!
Sam: Come on, oh yeah.
Taliesin: Oh yeah!
Marisha: Oh yeah! 28.
Matt: 28. Glancing inside you also see there are--
Marisha: (squawks) That's my echovision.
Matt: -- splatters and puddles of blood. Large bits of blood across the ground that is dried, but from your current vision from this, there is no sign of any living or individuals or bodies. There was a battle that took place here, but there is nothing present to signify who or what.
Marisha: How big is this room?
Matt: This room is about 25 feet tall
Marisha: Does it look like it goes deeper?
Matt: It does look like it goes deeper, there is a slight-- this is the upper floor, there is a grade, almost like a slow-- the word escapes me for a second.
Marisha: Like a downgrade.
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Like a ramp.
Matt: A ramp!
Sam: A slope.
Matt: Thank you.
Matt: A ramp that disappears below and into the lower floor.
Sam: A siggle.
Marisha: I'm gonna go into that-- (all laugh)
Travis: Careful. Oh no no no no! Don't roll! Don't roll! (all shout)
Taliesin: We turn on him.
Marisha: Fear of god.
Liam: Grog sacrifices the gnome. (all laugh)
Matt: So yeah, you do see the ramp, that's downward.
Marisha: I'm going to go into the room that I see is for sure empty, and go toward the threshold of the ramp.
Matt: Okay. Make your way down to the threshold of the ramp, looking down. Downstairs as well, it looks like there are some fur rugs set aside that have been kicked aside and bunched up on the edge of the room.
Marisha: Like it's been ransacked, or just a really nasty fight?
Matt: Like some sort of a major fight went down. No sign of any bodies or body parts. No sign of leftover weapons or armor from whatever giants lived in here. You just see large amounts of dried blood across the stone floors.
Marisha: Like something came in and slaughtered and completely stripped the place.
Matt: Or the giants slaughtered something horribly here and are currently out and about, you don't know. But--
Marisha: Can I tell if the blood looks-- how dusty is this shit?
Matt: Did you want to land and make an investigation check?
Sam: Call us in.
Travis: Do it.
Liam: Do it, Batwoman.
Taliesin: You are the night.
Marisha: How much dust goes pff?
Travis: (laughs) You are the night.
Matt: Quite a bit; a little puff.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Not a huge amount, but enough where it's not fresh, and a closer look, the blood's been dry for a while. Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: What is the sound of a bat coughing?
Marisha: (squawking and coughing noise)
Taliesin: Thank you. It's the simple things.
Travis: What did you get?
Marisha: Investigation. What about a 12?
Matt: 12. You can't really make it out, unfortunately. You know it's dried, it's been a little bit, but you can't quite gauge how long it's been.
Marisha: All right, I'm gonna go ahead and-- are there any other rooms, or is this it?
Matt: There's the upper floor, the lower floor. They're two large rooms on their own. It looks like-- You haven't actually gone down the grade yet, so.
Marisha: You said seven stories, so it's like room, downgrade, room, downgrade, room?
Matt: Seven stories for your size, it's two stories for a giant size. It's a large top room, and a large bottom room.
Laura: Ooh.
Marisha: Is there another room going off the bottom room?
Matt: There are just two rooms  top floor, bottom floor. You're currently on the top floor, looking down.
Sam: Split level condo.
Marisha: I'm gonna go out to the front door.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Nice flat, upper east side. Land, and I'm gonna bamf out of my bat form, and say, all right, it looks like the coast is clear if you guys want to check this place out.
Sam: Yeah, let's go check in.
Taliesin: Let's check it out.
Matt: All right, the rest of you make you way back down towards the front of the fortress and enter the inside. As you go through the front door, you see that the impact that destroyed it was from the inside out.
Sam: Oh!
Laura: Ooh.
Travis: Really?
Matt: So it's not like it was beaten in, it was beaten from the inside out.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: And there is a streak of dried blood against that portion of the door. Looking inside too, you see there are a large cluster of matted hides and furs, like it made for bedding for close to four or five giants put in the corner, and there is a musty smell of whatever they were using to make it comfortable and ripe for their own personal needs.
Liam: Stealth!
Laura: Yeah, yeah, let's stealth.
Travis: Can giants become vampires?
Laura: I don't know, I hope not. You should use the dust of tracelessness, Grog, just so our footsteps aren't seen.
Liam: 17.
Matt: 17, okay. So what do you guys want to do in here?
Laura: Stealth.
Sam: I'm going to go downstairs.
Marisha: How dark is it?
Matt: You are downstairs at the entrance
Sam: Oh. Down the grade, I mean.
Travis: I want to look for any weapons that are lying about.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Liam: I want to ransack the joint.
Matt: Actually, it'd be more of an investigation check.
Travis: Me, investigate? That's funny. Eight.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Investigate or perception for me?
Travis: I find dirt.
Matt: You find a giant's fortress.
Liam: Investigate or perception?
Matt: For this? Perception is just seeing things at first glance. Investigation is going through and rummaging through to find things.
Liam: I'll investigate.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Shall I for downstairs?
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Liam: 17.
Sam: 23.
Matt: Okay. As you guys are going through, looking at the blood and the way the splashes are, the blood that was spilled here was very thick, and large amounts of it, and it's probably been anywhere from two to three months since this entire fortress was ransacked.
Travis: Wow. MATT You do notice that some of the blood is dragged through, like something was dragged out of the puddle. But not for a long distance. Whatever was there was cleaned off at some point, or lifted up and carried out from whatever was originally pulled through those puddles of blood. You also do notice that in the pile of furs and refuse and there are bones of things that were left there to rot in the corner. You find roughly 120 gold pieces.
Sam: I give it to Vex.
Matt: Over time you find a number of shattered glass vials that look like they once contained various elixirs, there is one that is unshattered.
Sam: I take it.
Matt: All right. And underneath all, covered in quite a bit of filth, but a little bit of metallic sheen streaks through, you see what looks to be a very, very well-crafted longbow.
Laura: (gasps) What is that?! What is it? What did you find?
Sam: Nothing, nothing.
Laura: What is it? What is that?
Liam: Here you go
Laura: Ah, what is this?
Liam: What are you going to do with it?
Laura: What is this?
Sam: I'll use it as a hammock.
Liam: Shoot yourself?
Marisha: Does it look like it's magic-y?
Laura: Can I tell what it is?
Matt: Taking it, it appears to have some sort of magical radiance to it. It looks like it's very well crafted. You recognize the construction is elvish in nature.
Laura: Hey, look at this.
Matt: And there are bits of mithril scrolling all throughout the bow itself, with platinum caps on the edge of the longbow.
Travis: Is it evil?
Laura: I don't know. Keyleth, do you know anything about magic-y stuff? Tiberius bamfed out.
Marisha: I can try, I'm not as good as he is, but I'll try.
Laura: What about you, Scanlan? Do you know anything about arcana?
Marisha: Ooh, 20!
Matt: Natural 20?
Marisha: No, 18; 20 total.
Matt: Yes, this is definitively a magical item, it is enchanted.
Marisha: It's definitely magical.
Matt: If you want to take a short time to work with it and attune yourself to it, you could get a better idea of what its effect is.
Laura: Okay. Thank you. Can we do that?
Taliesin: I'm going to look around a bit more, anyway.
Laura: I'm going to think about it real hard.
Liam: Probably shoot a couple dummy arrows out of it
Travis: Can I walk out the front door?
Laura: I'm going to buy it a steak and I'm going to--
Travis: Can I walk out the front door and keep post on the porch?
Liam: I'm following Grog and I'm doing the same.
Matt: All right.
Travis: And I want to look in the direction we want to be walking.
Taliesin: I'm looking around, I'm trying to find out what happened to the bodies.
Matt: Investigation check for that. Here are the potion and the bow you guys managed to--
Laura: What is it, what is it?
Sam: I took the potion, I took the potion!
Matt: (laughs) Give that to Scanlan.
Taliesin: I know, apparently, from this roll that I'm in the mountains.
Laura: What is it?
Taliesin: I got a six.
Matt: A six. It's hard to tell. It's a very strange scene, and you have no inclination as to what may have transpired here. Who is the winner, who is the loser, and what has been done with the bodies.
Liam: Sorry.
Marisha: What did you find, what did you find?
Taliesin: Vex is making happy noises.
Liam: She's taking the bow for a spin.
Travis: She's attuning.
Liam: Seeing what it can do.
Travis: Do we see anything outside on the porch?
Matt: Over time the only thing you catch is occasionally you see flocks of birds moving through and swooping through the area. You watch one flock come up and begin circling a little bit.
Laura: Should we get out? Should we leave?
Matt: And then make its way down toward the valley.
Travis: Stealth.
Laura: Just leave. Let's leave. Stealth it out? Stealthy out-ie?
Matt: This is for Grog who is outside, roll a stealth check.
Liam: I'm out there too, and I rolled a natural 20.
Matt: Yes you did.
Travis: I might use your inspiration on this.
Sam: It's probably not in effect anymore.
Laura: (groans) No, you're in the mountains!
Travis: I am in the mountains.
Matt: Which means you have knowledge of mountains.
Laura: You don't get advantage?
Travis: I don't have advantage on--
Matt: Let me double-check on this, actually, what the specifics of the goliath's-- You don't take issues with cold climates, because you're at high elevation. You don't actually get advantage on anything mountain-wise; that is a ranger ability.
Travis: So can I add an inspiration on this?
Sam: I inspired him quite a while ago. How long does that--
Matt: It's been a while, how long does that last?
Sam: 20 minutes?
Matt: Yeah, that would've faded by now.
Travis: That's a one.
Matt: Oh, well, if it's a natural one it wouldn't have mattered.
Liam: Yeah, it doesn't matter, you can't add shit to one.
Matt: So while you sneak off to the side, you see these birds. There's a lot of birds there! You start yelling out to everyone, there's a lot of birds out here! Shouting it loudly back into the fortress.
Laura: Aw, shit.
Marisha: Grog, Grog, those might be centurion birds!
Travis: (loudly) That's what I said, birds!
Marisha: They might be spies! They might be spies.
Travis: (loudly) Yeah, I spy birds, they're flying everywhere. (yells) Go away!
Laura: Grog, Grog, inside.
Marisha: Inside!
Matt: The birds immediately start circling the fortress very close. You can hear the screeching. You can see the birds now, they're crows. A very, very thick murder of crows, probably close to a hundred of them, cawing.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace.
Marisha: Wait, wait, wait.
Sam: I'm still down there, investigating.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Sam: I pull a David Caruso and say, It looks like these giants had... big trouble. (all laugh)
Matt: You hear an echoing sound, yeahhhh! Formless, sourceless. You all stand there confused for a moment, then continue to try and stealth.
Travis: I run back inside.
Matt: Back inside. Eventually the crows take back to their original path.
Marisha: Oh, oh, but before the crows leave, before the crows leave--
Liam: Yeah?
Laura: Yeah?
Marisha: Can I do something?
Matt: Yep. What are you doing?
Laura: Do it!
Travis: Do it!
Sam: Kill them all.
Marisha: I'm gonna go like Storm and I'm gonna Sleet Storm them. I'm gonna start conjuring a Sleet Storm over the top of this mountain, right where the crows are.
Taliesin: It's been so long since you've killed something innocent! Let's bring it!
Laura: Do it, do it, Keyleth!
Matt: As Keyleth concentrates for a second, you see her eyes, the actual color of her irises, begin to fade to this cloudy white and then the entire eye itself becomes this icy blue. A slight cold mist beginning to drift off the corners of her face.
Laura: Badass.
Matt: You start hearing this pounding sound on the top of the fortress as sleet and hail begins to rain down. Go ahead and roll damage for the spell.
Marisha: Oh, jeez.
Matt: Sleet Storm? Oh, it's just a dexterity saving throw. It says heavily obscured, but doesn't actually do any damage.
Laura: But it knocks them all down.
Marisha: I know, they're like frozen though, right? Don't they get frozen with Sleet Storm?
Matt: Sleet Storm knocks things prone, makes the area hard to see.
Marisha: Knocks them prone
Matt: Douses flames.
Marisha: They're in the sky, I wanna hear birds hit the floor.
Matt: And a few do. There are a few birds that get pelted and knocked to the ground, encased in sleet, but most of it immediately takes note to get away from the storm and vanish and disappear back to--
Travis: Do they fall to the porch?
Matt: I'll say one does.
Travis: I run out there and I grab it.
Laura: No, no, no!
Travis: I rip its head off with my teeth. (all laugh)
Matt: Grog, you run out there and grab the one on the ground, it's struggling, and (squawks), there's ice gathered everywhere.
Travis: Yeah, shut up!
Matt: You grab it and you pick it up, you hear Vex go "Grog!" and you go (chomp) as she's staring at you. Silencing the crow. You hear the cawing of the crows dissipate in the distance and silence eventually takes the fortress once again, and you're left amongst the smell of death.
Laura: We should get the eff out of here.
Marisha: I think so.
Taliesin: We should probably leave.
Laura: Now. Stealth and out.
Laura: Dust of tracelessness. Hide ourselves.
Travis: Dust of tracelessness.
Matt: You make your way out of the fortress and begin to follow the path down into the outside of the forest and just as you make towards the base of the mountains where the forest canopy begins to take your vision, you can see just over the edge, a couple of small castle towers and what looks to be a single central spire of the castle of Whitestone.
Laura: They know we're here now. They know we're here.
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: I think they might.
Laura: That was a sentry.
Travis: Why? They were just birds.
Marisha: Yeah, but we don't know--
Sam: Don't worry, we still have the element of surprise. Oh wait, no, we don't.
Matt: And with that, we're going to go ahead and take a break. All right, guys, we'll be back here in about 20-25 minutes.
Laura: Oh yeah!
Matt: Let us begin where we left off.
Laura: Oh, we're looking at the city.
Sam: There's the city! Shall we storm it?
Taliesin: It's a chalkboard.
Laura: I was pointing at you!
Taliesin: Well yes, so I can now recognize where we are.
Matt: Yes, you know this area very well. This entire forested area, the Parchwood Forest that encompases the entirety of this valley, toward the center of it, center north, is where Whitestone sits and for your reference as well, since you've been here before, you would know the city relatively well.
Sam: Maps!
Taliesin: This is the most exciting map I've ever been handed. Whoa!
Laura: What the what?!
Matt: Hold that over by your seat there for people to take a look at.
Sam: Don't. Just don't.
Taliesin: It won't fit in my folder.
Matt: That is a basic rundown of the size, design and shape of Whitestone, with Castle Whitestone toward the top, built on top of a leveled off mountain that marks the southernmost point.
Sam: This is the castle, this is the town?
Travis: And we're at the southern part of that?
Matt: You guys are actually coming in from what would be the northwestern side of the city
Marisha: So over here?
Matt: A little bit further down. About that angle there. That's the direction you're coming in from.
Travis: That's a detailed map, man.
Matt: I don't have any free time anymore. (all laugh)
Travis: They sell those stock, right?
Matt: Oh yeah, totally.
Taliesin: What's this little outcropping?
Matt: The little outcropping to the east of it was the graveyard to Whitestone. It's where most of the regular denizens were interred. It's been expanded over the years as the city itself has been around for quite a few generations.
Marisha: Does this graveyard have catacombs? Tombs? Underground passages?
Matt: Do you ask this of Percy?
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: Does it?
Matt: That graveyard does not--
Taliesin: That graveyard does not--
Matt: -- it is a surface graveyard.
Taliesin: -- it is a surface graveyard.
Matt: There is a mausoleum--
Taliesin: There is a mausoleum--
Matt: -- but that--
Taliesin: -- but that--
Matt: -- is actually contained beneath the castle.
Taliesin: -- is actually contained beneath the castle. (all laugh)
Travis: Riveting.
Sam: So knowledgeable, Percy.
Laura: So Percy, do you know of any secret passages to get actually into the castle?
Taliesin: I was wondering that myself.
Matt: There is one, one that you took to escape.
Taliesin: Yes, there is one!
Marisha: (laughs) Stop.
Matt: He has an aneurysm. Yeah, it is to the very western edge of the mountain precipice the castle was built on. It was built to be specifically an escape in case the place was under siege. Unfortunately, the circumstances that the evening happened so rapidly, and with creatures that seemingly were unnatural, the family didn't have time to make it out. And even you weren't fully aware of it. Cassandra, however, had overheard discussions about the passage and took that as your escape route. It's a hidden tunnel at the very base of the mountain.
Taliesin: I say we scope out the hidden entrance, see if it's guarded, see if they've discovered it.
Sam: To the town, or to the castle?
Taliesin: The hidden entrance to the castle. Instead of using it, I think we should possibly spend the night and get a view of the town, see if there's anything unusual.
Laura: I agree, can we camp out and hide?
Sam: Watch from afar? What's that going to tell us?
Travis: We could send one in.
Taliesin: We could send a bird in. Or an invisible gnome.
Sam: Or both.
Taliesin: Or both. An invisible bird-gnome.
Travis: Just to see if the town is normal or not.
Sam: It could be all vampires. Or it could be a totally normal town.
Taliesin: If it's all vampires, it'll be empty right now.
Sam: Because it's daytime.
Laura: Because it's daytime.
Marisha: We should do a fly-by.
Laura: We should definitely attack during the day.
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: We should send one by air and one by land.
Laura: What?
Marisha: Do you want to do that?
Sam: How far away are we?
Matt: You guys have been travelling through the forest, and it is a very dense forest, but it is mostly cold-weather trees, pines. And there is, you can see once you get inside the forest, the ground itself is very thick and there are elements of melting snow on the top of the trees, there was recently a snowfall in this area but it seems like it's been a while and most of it has turned to slush and water. You have about two hours of travel into the forest, and you all immediately catch the sound of distant howling.
Sam: Is it nighttime?
Matt: No.
Sam: Oh. That's scary.
Marisha: Distant howling? Does it sound like wolves? Can I make a nature check?
Matt: Yeah, make a nature check.
Laura: Stealth?
Matt: If you want to make a stealth check
Marisha: 26.
Matt: 26. Those are wolves. It sounds like a pack of wolves, probably close to anywhere from five or six.
Marisha: Would I think it's weird that they're howling during the daytime?
Matt: You gather that it is strange that they're out. Though it is getting later in the day, you are pushing four or five in the afternoon, the sun is starting to get closer to the horizon. It is strange that they're out this early, you're not sure what the reasoning would be for that.
Marisha: Odd.
Taliesin: I say we hide in the trees.
Laura: Up high.
Travis: Like up in the trees?
Laura: I like it.
Travis: We're gonna climb some trees.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: We're gonna Hobbit this shit.
Sam: We're just hiding in the trees, we're not going in to investigate?
Taliesin: Well, it's about to be nighttime, so we'll send a scout.
Sam: How long would it take to get into the town from where we are?
Matt: About two more hours of travel.
Sam: Ew. We'll get there at night. That's all right though, it's early evening.
Marisha: How long would it take me to fly over if I was a bird?
Matt: About an hour.
Sam: Vax.
Liam: Yes?
Sam: Can I ride you into town?
Liam: You want me to jog into town?
Marisha: You could ride me into town.
Sam: Well hello lady.
Marisha: Man, every time, Scanlan, every time.
Taliesin: Now that just got weird.
Laura: Could you turn yourself and fly?
Sam: Yeah, I guess I could fly.
Marisha: You wanna go invisible and jump on my back and I can eagle up?
Sam: Whatever you're into, baby. (laughs) I've become Austin Powers.
Laura: Ridiculous.
Marisha: Let's do it.
Liam: If the coach driver was any indication, there are going to be people--
Laura: Normal people.
Liam: -- in town.
Sam: What about this  I'll make us both invisible and you fly us in.
Laura: I like it.
Travis: Yeah, get on the ground, not just above.
Matt: All right. Now, Invisibility  how long does it last at full duration?
Sam: Looking. Up to an hour. Ooh, and it takes two hours just to get there?
Matt: Well, flying takes an hour. So, it's one of those things you could do once you approach it. It'll last you awhile, as opposed to doing it now.
Sam: How long can you be Polymorphed for? Forever? Concentration?
Marisha: For half of my druid level, we discovered.
Matt: So somewhere around six hours, five hours.
Sam: Okay, so you fly us in, and I'll Invisibility us right as we get to the gates.
Travis: And as they're going out, we get in the trees.
Taliesin: Make sure you bring an earpiece.
Marisha: He's got an earpiece.
Travis: Do we, the four of us, all go up in the trees?
Liam: Everyone get your own tree.
Laura: Everyone get your own tree?
Matt: Everyone who's in a tree, please roll a stealth check.
Sam: Except for Trinket, who can't climb up.
Laura: Trinket can climb trees! Bears climb trees!
Matt: Roll an athletics check.
Laura: I'm casting Pass Without a Trace. How long does it last?
Sam: You have to roll for Trinket.
Laura: Okay, fine! I guess I'll cast it tonight, never mind.
Travis: Plus ten to stealth?
Laura: Why are you being a dick, Scanlan?
Matt: Well, she did not cast it.
Laura: I'm not casting it yet.
Travis: 14.
Laura: What are we rolling?
Travis: Stealth.
Liam: I already did. Those are good rolls!
Laura: 21 for me, and what do I-- just nothing. 19 for Trinket.
Matt: Okay. We'll say you guys all manage to slowly get yourself up into the tree the best you can, as you guys take off. While you guys are away, making your way towards Whitestone, the rest of you look down, and just from a passive perception standpoint, you pick up the most detail: you can see there is indeed a pack of about five wolves and/or dogs a little ways away, but they're being followed by one humanoid. They're being guided, there is a pack out here for some reason, whether it be a hunting party or whatever other reasons there may be. It isn't a wild pack.
Laura: And they're close to us now?
Travis: I've been doing the dust of tracelessness.
Laura: So, I'll cast it on us now that they're closer.
Marisha: I wonder if that's the ground search party.
Laura: Maybe.
Travis: We'll see.
Laura: So, should we add ten to all of our stealth rolls that had been, or do we have to roll again?
Matt: You'd have to roll again.
Laura: Shit balls.
Liam: So we're stealthing again in the tree?
Matt: Because she's casting Pass, or you won't get the benefit.
Liam: I'm already at a 32, man!
Travis: I'll take it.
Laura: You don't have to.
Liam: Let's do it, let's roll again.
Taliesin: Let's roll again.
Liam: What do we add?
Laura: Ten to whatever we roll.
Matt: Go ahead and just add ten to the previous roll. (all cheer)
Liam: Good.
Marisha: We want to keep our good rolls.
Matt: So, about five breathless moments pass as the dogs, wolves all get relatively close. One of them comes up and returns back to the pack. You don't get a good view of the individual that is currently guiding the pack, and you see them disappear between the thick trees in the distance. Make an active perception check for you, Vex, if you don't mind.
Laura: Not advantage. Mountains?
Matt: Is forest? No, you're in forest, now.
Laura: Oh wait! That's another!
Matt: You're sure that's a favored terrain? Then go ahead and roll again.
Laura: That was worse than the first one, that's great.
Matt: So your total is?
Liam: I rolled 20.
Laura: Okay, well, you didn't say you were doing it. 18.
Matt: 18, okay. It's hard to make out the details at this distance. You check out, it does appear to be a female form.
Laura: Oh, it's a chick!
Matt: Best you can tell, you can't tell specific race or details. Then, another minute passes before the barking and the howls fade and the hunting party seems to have been eluded.
Taliesin: There was no way to get a good look at who it was.
Matt: No. Do you want to make an active perception check?
Taliesin: Actually, I would love to.
Matt: Normally, if they'd passed by now--
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Travis: What?! Really?
Matt: A natural 20?!
Marisha: I'm looking at it!
Taliesin: This is an 'I love you' for those awful rolls earlier.
Travis: The golden snitch wins again.
Taliesin: That may be its name now.
Matt: You see the female form, it's not someone you particularly recognize. But the woman does appear to be older, probably in her late 40s, early 50s. She has some hunting gear over her shoulder. She has a short bow that's strapped over her, she has a quiver of arrows. She looks like she's hunting for food.
Sam: If she was a little older, Tiberius would kill her. (all laugh)
Sam: Give her ten years.
Matt: Give her ten years.
Taliesin: I don't recognize her, though?
Matt: No, you don't have an immediate lead of visual recognition. In the meantime, you guys make your way. Swooping down, you can see that cluster, that murder of crows circling out. It's making a large pass over this entire valley. You take this cue as you get to within visual range of the city to cast Invisibility on both of you. Is that a 3rd-level spell?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Okay. Both of you vanish from view, which is a strange feeling for you because you cannot see Keyleth, you're grasping onto something you can't see.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Matt: And you just look like you're gliding through the air.
Sam: Can I do one of these?
Matt: Yeah, you grab on very tightly.
Marisha: (choking noises)
Matt: -- without choking. The eagle does not have--
Sam: Damn it!
Matt: -- human physiology. You get two fistfuls of feathers. And you really don't want an eagle to buck you angrily at this height. I don't think you have Featherfall so that wouldn't go well. Looking over Whitestone, you can see outside of the city there are some areas where the trees are carved out, and there is farmland set up specifically to grow food and to till to maintain sustenance for the people that live there. You can see that there's a small area that's also being cut for timber. Not a perpetual thing, but the wood here is, you've heard previously, one of the major exports here is very high-quality timber from this type of tree that is used for very exquisite woodcraft and furniture. So that's one of the major exports of Whitestone as well as the quartz from the mines itself. There are people in the city, but sparse. Make a perception check.
Marisha: Can I also make a perception check?
Matt: You may.
Marisha: With my eagle vision?
Matt: (singsong) You may.
Marisha: 14, so that's 24. And I have Keen Sight, which means I have advantage on all perception checks.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Marisha: I'll take that 14.
Taliesin: She'll take that 14.
Marisha: As opposed to that one.
Matt: Total of 14?
Marisha: 24.
Matt: 24. Okay. As you get close enough to start scanning over details, you can see that a lot of the buildings appear to be closed or empty. There are people working in the fields. As you make your way to the center of the town, there is a town square. There is a tree there, a very large, old tree that is twisted, with all these various gnarled branches that reach out. You recall Desmond mentioning something called the Sun Tree that is the centerpiece of this area. And you get a view enough of the tree to see that there are eight humanoid bodies of varying ages swinging from it.
Sam: Ooh.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: You also notice that, patrolling through the city at very slow paces, there are a few larger than normal humanoids.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: You see what appear to be approximately six giants patrolling through the town, but you can see some of them are like wrecked and broken. One of them is missing an arm and is dragging a foot behind it.
Laura: They're zombie giants?!
Matt: Apparently, whenever one of them is moving through, most of the denizens of the town keep a very wide berth, and generally avoid them entirely and go about their business, at a distance.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: I miss Pike.
Travis: Six?
Sam: No problem.
Matt: Like over all of the entire city. They're pretty well scattered about. After you do a full pass over the city, those are most of the details you can make out at this height. Anything further, any specifics, you want to go for before heading back?
Sam: You want to set me down so I can go talk to people?
Marisha: You want to talk to people?
Sam: Well, or at least eavesdrop. We don't know if they're all vampires or not.
Marisha: Does it look like there's a central part where there's a lot of people gathered?
Matt: Farmlands look likely to be the largest cluster of people. You can see, since it's getting to the end of the day, there are folks finishing up gathering the crops that were available to them or sort of planting as they go through. And you can see there's about five or six people that are all in one group. Most everyone else seems to be relatively solitary and trying to go about their business as fast as possible.
Marisha: The town square's emptying out?
Matt: The town square? Nobody is in the town square. People are avoiding it like the plague. There's eight bodies hanging from the tree, and nobody wants to be there.
Marisha: All right. I'm going to swoop down and find a tree, where the five or six farmers are, and perch, see if Scanlan can get a good--
Matt: There actually are no trees by the farm, all the trees have been cleared out to make the farmland. So there's actually a bit of the forest that's been cleared for that purpose.
Marisha: It's just open and empty.
Matt: Yeah. You can go to a tree that's nearby, but that's like 300 feet away.
Marisha: A rooftop? A wall? Anything I can perch on?
Matt: There is a wall. There is a wall on the outskirts of Whitestone.
Marisha: I perch on the wall.
Matt: Okay. You swoop down and you perch on the edge of the wall there. It's about 25 feet up.
Sam: I'm just going to walk down there. I won't be able to see you, so I'm going to leave a little--
Marisha: I'll keep an-- Oh, wait, I can't see you.
Matt: And you can't talk right now, you're an eagle.
Sam: I leave a little, like a canteen or something, right where she's perched, just so I know where to find her.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Smart.
Taliesin: Leave the mug.
Sam: Yeah, my stein. And then I'm going to walk down and see if I can stealthily eavesdrop on some conversations.
Matt: Okay. You make your way down the 25-foot wall she's perched on.
Sam: Oh, shit. Am I going to fall?
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check to climb.
Taliesin: You say that out loud?
Sam: Athletics?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: 17.
Matt: 17. The stonework here is old and you manage to not lose your footing entirely as you bring your way down. Thankfully, you're light enough, and the stones are not too large, so you can get some good handholds. You do, over the next 12 minutes or so, make your way to the base of the wall.
Sam: It took me 12 minutes to climb 25 feet?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Nice. I suck.
Marisha: Maybe whistle for me when you come back.
Matt: A lot of moments of (gasps) 'whoa, okay'. But, you catch yourself. I mean, you can just jump if you wanted to make it less. But, the duration of your invisibility-- you have about 20 more minutes before it dissipates.
Sam: Oh shit, I have to do this quick.
Matt: You look over the edge, and you can see that they have carts up and that they have what vegetables they have, and a lot of vegetables, even at a close look, a lot of them look withered. It looks like there is a general sense of frustration that the land itself is not producing quality crops. And even the people look unhealthy and gaunt by nature. Whether it be the cold winter recently or just their general spirit is broken, but there is a feeling about these people that life here is not what it used to be. There isn't a whole lot of conversation, there's mutterings here and there. "We have to make sure we get these back in time. Fill the cart, we have two carts we have to get in." And the other one's, "I know, I know, I'm trying," And they're putting it over there and there's a little bit of frustration among them.
Sam: He's doing walla. (all laugh)
Matt: One of them ends up counting the last bit of crop. "That's it, that's all we have. That is the entire pull for the day." And the older gentleman, who is overseeing it, grinds his hands and goes, "Sir Kerrion is going to have my hide."
Sam: Wait, wasn't that one of the people--
Matt: "At the very least, let's gather it together and hopefully Pelor will protect us." And the people take the carts and begin making their way towards the outer gate on the southeast side of Whitestone, where you guys are currently at.
Sam: Okay. I'm going to hustle back to the roof.
Matt: All right. Make an athletics check.
Sam: Jesus.
Marisha: I can come get you.
Taliesin: You'll hear a thump.
Sam: Eight. (all laugh)
Liam: Hopefully he lands on his lute.
Sam: No, it's nine.
Matt: Okay. 15 minutes. After five minutes of eavesdropping you realize that you are not going to make it up that wall, and you feel the magic of your Invisibility illusion about to fade. At this point, by the way, the sun has just hit the edge of the mountains, the sky itself is a vibrant, reddish orange slowly turning to purple and sunset is upon you.
Sam: I want to spend the night here. No.
Marisha: Can I see him?
Matt: He's invisible, no.
Sam: I will sneak around the corner a little bit, wait for an opening, and I lose Invisibility, which will drop it on her as well, and I will Dimension Door back up to the roof.
Matt: Okay. As you pass to the side, the illusion fades, you step into a small opening of dark, purplish energy and then reemerge on the top of the wall--
Matt: Grab the canteen.
Sam: Grab the canteen.
Matt: --and hop back on the back of her.
Sam: Oh, shit. Invisibility again.
Matt: Okay. Okay. You guys vanish, and Keyleth, you take off back in the direction you guys traveled from. In the meantime, guys, what do you want to have been doing? Are you just waiting, are you traveling further in, are you staying where you are?
Travis: (snores)
Taliesin: We have to wait.
Laura: Yeah, keeping an ear out for the wolves and just chilling in a tree.
Travis: (yells) I fall out of the tree.
Laura: And also, I'm restringing my new, awesome bow.
Matt: With the--?
Laura: With the blazing bowstring.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Which, by the way, is a longbow of sky sentinel.
Sam: Sky sentinel, what does that mean?
Laura: Once per long rest, I can use a Storm Arrow, which means that the next arrow I fire splits into three arrows. Roll an attack for each of them, they all get 1d6 extra for each one that hits. It's amazing!
Sam: Every time you use it, or is at a one-time--
Laura: It's one time per long rest.
Marisha: That's awesome!
Matt: Once per day, she fires an arrow and the arrow splits into three, and each one bursts into thunder damage, bursts of them.
Laura: Say what?! So, is it lightning damage or is it--
Matt: Thunder damage. It should say on there.
Laura: It says lightning damage.
Matt: Oh, then it would be lightning damage.
Marisha: It's a taser arrow.
Taliesin: It's basically a taser.
Matt: So yeah, it's pretty fun.
Sam: Thunder!
Laura: Thunder!
Matt: What's that from?
Sam: I don't know.
Matt: So, the night falls and the crickets begin to emerge, the slow mist begins to form.
Laura: Wait, our friends aren't back yet. It's already night and they're not back?
Liam: I just want to say that I pulled my hood down, and put on my calamari hat, and pulled the hood back over it.
Matt: Okay. So you take the partially rusted over, but functional, metallic skull cap that Clarota was wearing when you guys met in the Underdark, that Clarota no longer needs.
Travis: Because he's dead.
Matt: You place it on your head and it's a little loose. As you place it on, it rattles for a moment, and then it form-fits to your skull. Your hair being pinched beneath it and just emerging from underneath, almost Loki-helmet-style.
Laura: Looking snazzy, Vax.
Travis: Nice bonnet.
Sam: (imitating Clarota) I'm on your head.
Matt: There's a weird buzzing vibrational feel as its magic attunes to you over the next hour or so as you're waiting, but you get the sensation that it will offer some decent protection from impeding charm effects.
Liam: It tingles.
Laura: It looks like you have a mullet.
Liam: Yeah, dude.
Matt: A Loki mullet. You start to get really nervous about the arrival of your friends, until eventually you hear the flapping of wings. You look up and you can see, since it has taken an hour to get there, the illusion just fades, both a giant eagle and Scanlan appear in the moonlight, right above the canopy of the forest you guys are close to, and return to the place you were.
Laura: Keyleth, question. Can you make it look like we're not here with your foliage shit?
Marisha: I drop my Beast Shape, holding onto a branch.
Laura: You know, the illusions.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Good, good.
Laura: Can we camp up in the tree? So nobody can come towards us.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: What if we fall out?
Marisha: I Druidcraft some spiderweb hammocks.
Laura: Ooh.
Taliesin: Sticky.
Marisha: And, as usual, light some sage.
Matt: Takes about an hour or so, but you manage to pull from the surroundings these really nice, thick spider silk hammocks, that should be able to support your respective weights. Grog is the only one that might be questionable with the sheer amount of weight that is his form.
Travis: I like it.
Marisha: Maybe take a rope and tie it.
Travis: Nope, this is a trust exercise.
Laura: I'm using Hide in Plain Sight to make me and Trinket extra, extra hidey.
Liam: I have a question. The only reason I have this question is because I posted that video from a couple of years ago. Do I still have the unending rope?
Laura: I have the unending rope, motherfucker.
Liam: Why don't we reinforce with the rope?
Laura: Sure, why not.
Travis: You don't like the trust exercise?
Laura: That's where all the rope comes from that we ever use.
Liam: I'm sorry I brought it up. I'd love you to fall on your head.
Laura: Let's reinforce the spiderwebs.
Travis: No, I'm good, thank you.
Marisha: Whoa, Vax. Nice helmet. Don Quixote called.
Liam: Aerodynamic, isn't it?
Marisha: He wants his bowl back.
Sam: Before we slumber, we did a little intel, a little recon.
Laura: Oh, yeah. What's up?
Sam: Turns out the town is full of humans, except for these six vampire giants-- zombie giants.
Marisha: They all appear to be fairly miserable people.
Sam: However, this could be useful. Everyone in the town, the farmers anyway, seem to be gathering produce to deliver to the Briarwoods. We could pose as some sort of farmer troupe with a basket of goodies, and maybe get through the front gate.
Laura: Don't you think they would know all the farmers around at this point? They've been there for a long time.
Marisha: They did reference Sir Kerrion by name. Oh, they referenced Sir Kerrion, Percy.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Sam: We could make ourselves look like some of them. One of us has a hat of disguise.
Marisha: Also, there was something other really important.
Sam: What?
Marisha: The town was pretty much empty.
Sam: Oh, yes, this.
Marisha: And that Sun Tree, that what's-his-name-- Who said that? Jarett?
Matt: Desmond.
Marisha: Desmond. Looks like there were some executions that took place. There were about eight bodies hanging from that tree.
Laura: Why is it called the Sun Tree?
Sam: It's really lovely. I don't know, maybe it gets sun.
Marisha: I don't know. Why do they call it the Sun Tree?
Taliesin: Can I go with this? Unless you have a particular reason to--
Matt: I mean, you can go with-- There are maybe many reasons it's called the Sun Tree.
Laura: There's reasons. Maybe we need to battle them at the Sun Tree.
Taliesin: Legends say that before the castle was built, that the journey into the valley was treacherous and stormy, and the original builders of Whitecastle feared they would die. And this one, great tree stood in the valley, and it was underneath it that they took shelter. And as they began to take shelter, the storm broke. And the storm did not return until the castle was completed.
Sam: That's a lovely story.
Taliesin: We hold our festivals there every year.
Sam: And now it's being used as a--
Taliesin: As a gallow, yes.
Laura: Does it get a lot of sun?
Matt: You do know, and this ties into your story as well, because the guidance in forging the city of Whitestone, that tree was representative to them as a guardian of Pelor, the god of the sun. The protector of light, holiness--
Sam: Who that?
Taliesin: A very serious god.
Travis: That could help.
Laura: That could help us, because vampires hate the sun.
Sam: Why would they make camp in the place where the god of the sun--
Laura: Maybe that's why they're hanging bodies from it, to taint it.
Liam: Maybe that's why it's protected. Maybe--
Sam: Are any of us religious with that god, or--?
Marisha: Can we call Pike through your magic poo?
Laura: Would she be able to hear us?
Taliesin: Tablet of Apple?
Sam: I can at least see what she is up to.
Liam: Keyleth, would you be able to revive the tree?
Laura: (gasps) Bring it back.
Sam: What would that do?
Marisha: Yeah, I can, actually.
Laura: I don't know. Bring up the god of the sun again, I don't know.
Sam: We're not religious people. We can't summon the gods willy-nilly.
Liam: We can please Pelor.
Laura: Don't tell us what we can and can't do, Scanlan.
Sam: I'm sorry. We can do all of those things. Yes, let's go in the middle of the vampire-infested town and do some arbory to try to heal the tree, and then we'll just say, oh, sun god, please rain down sun here.
Laura: I like it. Let's do it.
Sam: That's a great plan.
Travis: Can we at least try cutting down the bodies and running, and seeing what happens?
Sam: We could.
Taliesin: I say, in the morning we take a look at the passage, see how well-guarded it is. And if it looks dangerous, sneak our way into the town. If people are not enthralled, if they are being forced to work, then maybe we can find some allies.
Marisha: Find allies in the town?
Taliesin: I don't think they're happy.
Laura: I think they're terrified. And I don't want to let them know we're here, for fear they'll turn us in, in hopes of saving their own necks.
Marisha: That's what I'm thinking. Yes, they're terrified, but this whole town's being ruled by fear.
Liam: I have a feeling we can revive that tree somehow. It may weaken the Briarwoods' hold on the psyche of the villagers here.
Laura: This is true! It could help out. Let them know the god of the sun is on their side.
Travis: I heard you're supposed to pee on a lemon tree, so.
Laura: Probably you and Scanlan are on that, I have a feeling.
Travis: Can I make a nature check to see if that's true?
Taliesin: I really wanted to ask. What does peeing on a lemon tree have to do with anything?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: 19! That's 17.
Matt: In your experience with the roving band of barbarians, you guys enjoyed very much peeing on very colorful trees, of all sorts of plant life. All of them, generally, didn't seem to, over time, react well to the process, whether it be the fact that you all drank a lot of the time, so the content of your urine was probably not very hospitable.
Liam: It's known as a lemon party. (all laugh)
Matt: That's a whole different kind of festival.
Marisha: You killed Percy.
Laura: You killed Percy.
Taliesin: Thank you for bringing the text chat all the way back around.
Travis: Operation tree rescue.
Matt: The lemon party is held on the far, far southern continent of Tubgirl, the region of Goatse.
Travis: I have an idea. Should we wait until the sun comes up, create a distraction, so all the undead giants come looking, and then we have someone go cut the bodies off the tree, and--
Laura: And bring it back to life!
Travis: -- let Keyleth give it a little love.
Marisha: And then what happens after that?
Travis: I don't know. It's an experiment, all right?
Laura: Then we get the fuck out.
Sam: Won't they know we're here? Won't the people see us doing things?
Marisha: I know. I feel that's the equivalent of putting dish soap in the fountain on prom night.
Laura: No! Didn't you say that all around the Sun Tree nobody's there?
Marisha: Yeah, we did that. What?
Laura: Didn't you say nobody's around the Sun Tree?
Sam: That's true. But we still have to get in.
Laura: We'll fly up and over. You just did the same thing.
Sam: I know, I know.
Laura: Fly up and over, land, bring the tree back to life, get out.
Sam: Are you sure you don't want me to be a carriage driver, and you'll hide in the hay of my carriage and I'll go straight up to the Briarwoods.
Laura: I feel like they know all the townspeople.
Sam: I will put on my hat of disguise, I will be someone completely different.
Travis: They can see through that.
Liam: I'm telling you, they looked right through me.
Laura: When he was invisible!
Liam: Invisible. They saw me.
Laura: They probably saw you!
Sam: So while he was transparent, they saw through him?
Liam: No, but I was heavily stealthed.
Laura: No, you were invisible.
Marisha: Oh, wow!
Matt: No, the invisibility faded when he attacked the guard.
Liam: When I beaned the guard. They should not have been able to see me.
Sam: I'm not talking about getting past the Briarwoods. I'm talking about getting past the guards that guard their castle.
Marisha: Here's another issue. It's going to take me a minute to do the tree.
Laura: How long?
Marisha: It might take a bit.
Laura: How long's a bit?
Marisha: Well, I mean, it's one of those things where the longer I do it the better it'll be. I can do it for up to eight hours.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Marisha: If I do it for up to eight hours, I enrich the land over half a mile radius, centered on a single point, and the land becomes enriched for a solid year.
Laura: I don't want to enrich all of the--
Liam: Question. What time was it when they were doing their little scouting thing they've just told us about? The sun was going down?
Matt: Yeah, they probably would've gotten to Whitestone around seven o'clock, and leaving right as the sun had fully set.
Laura: If we go right when the sun goes up--
Liam: Yes, we get there at sunrise, take those fucking beasts out, and you start at eight AM.
Sam: But then what?
Laura: We just sneak in. Here's the thing. I don't know if you want to get all the crops all fancy, because it'll just feed the Briarwoods. Maybe just do the tree area, which will be like two hours, maybe.
Marisha: Yeah? I think if I have a solid hour or two hours with it.
Sam: Once the tree is healed, we have no one of religious power to summon any god. We don't know anything about this god, none of us do!
Taliesin: I do, in theory, if I'm from--
Matt: Go ahead and roll a religion check.
Taliesin: A which?
Matt: A religion check.
Laura: A witch?
Matt: A witch.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16? Okay. Pelor is the god of the sun and agriculture. It's a good deity and is generally worshipped by farmers and simple folk and people that live off the land, and generally it's the most nature-based deity of the main spectrum, outside of Melora, which is the deity of nature.
Marisha: Oh. Well, dope! Would I know stuff like that too, then?
Matt: You know of Pelor, yeah. There are elements of Pelor's following that bleeds into your druidic nature, though you don't necessarily follow a deity.
Marisha: Right. We're free.
Matt: You believe that the essence of nature in itself is your patron.
Marisha: Totally.
Matt: You are not a religious man by nature, and you know that there is a strong following of Pelor in the town. The entire graveyard that you talked about earlier, that one is largely built around the imagery of Pelor. And of all the gods that are worshipped here, Pelor's probably 75% of the population of Whitestone where, in some shape or form, if not devout worshippers, at least were like, yeah, Pelor's cool.
Marisha: Here's my question. I feel Pike's energy tonight. Maybe, while I'm meditating, I can somehow reach out to her, and maybe ask her to get in touch with Sarenrae, and maybe Sarenrae can call up her homeboy Pelor.
Laura: Do you think that works?
Marisha: I don't know.
Travis: This is like phone a friend?
Marisha: We're not organized religion people, we Ashari.
Liam: The tree is called the Sun Tree. It's Pelor's tree. I'm not a cleric of Sarenrae, but these shitbags could not have set up camp in a temple of Sarenrae because there is too much goodness there, as there was around this tree in this town, and it's why it is dead. It's why it's being surrounded by a bunch of giant undead things, as you described. You need faith, Scanlan Shorthalt.
Sam: Me? I am the antithesis of faith.
Liam: Then you need to shut up and let us fix that tree.
Sam: And then what?
Travis: Who knows?
Sam: We're going to fight off a million monsters to heal a tree, and then we're going to say, "Okay. Bring out the sun," or something.
Marisha: Hang on! What did you just say?
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: That thing you just said that no one heard because we were all shouting and arguing? Rally the townsfolk?
Taliesin: Rally the townsfolk. This is something I think-- I don't think that sneaking in is necessarily the answer. I'm not saying go in, guns blazing, but I say we let them know--
Marisha: You want to build a militia?
Taliesin: I want to build a rebellion.
Laura: I like it. They would recognize you, wouldn't they, Percy?
Taliesin: I have a plan.
Travis: You have a plan?
Sam: Does it involve healing the tree?
Taliesin: It does.
Liam: I don't think there is any sneaking in, thanks to those birds, so we make a stand out here.
Travis: Tell us your plan.
Taliesin: My plan is, we do our best to sneak in, we find cover. Obviously, you said there's abandoned buildings. We find cover. We heal the tree. I have some other ideas. We take those zombie giants out one by one, quietly.
Sam: We're going to be insurgents?
Travis: Shh! Let him finish the plan!
Sam: I kind of love this.
Taliesin: Okay.
Marisha: It's like Attack on Titan. That's cool!
Taliesin: Let's start finding our friends, and we start making friends. We let them know we're back.
Laura: I like it.
Marisha: I like having the people. It feels less like we're the United States.
Travis: Okay, where do we start?
Taliesin: I have some parchment. I have the thing I want to build, while I'm in the tree. It's very simple, and I want to show you what it is.
Matt: What is it?
Taliesin: I want to take some gunpowder and basically--
Sam: Make a pipe bomb.
Taliesin: Basically attach it to a piece of parchment. I want to wet it into a piece of parchment and let it dry so that when I set fire to that piece of parchment, I get a burn scar. I'd like to create a burn scar.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: Yeah, that's totally doable.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a tinkering check, just for the sake of a possible epic failure.
Marisha: A burn on yourself?
Taliesin: No, it'll scar anything. It just creates a very high heat.
Sam: Like a mark?
Marisha: Like a brand.
Sam: Like our mark.
Taliesin: Like a mark.
Sam: Like our mark.
Taliesin: Not our mark.
Sam: The resistance.
Taliesin: The resistance.
Sam: I need a beret. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I rolled a 23.
Matt: While the rest of you end up taking your evening's rest, Grog, you immediately snap your hammock and fall 15 feet to the ground.
Travis: (pained groan)
Matt: But you manage to make your way up there and just bear hug the tree trunk for rest. You're used to sleeping in uncomfortable situations.
Liam: I throw five or six pine cones at his head.
Matt: Over time, or at once?
Liam: At once.
Travis: Fucking gravity.
Matt: You manage to complete three pieces of parchment, roughly page-sized, with your black powder treatment, successfully. The mist rolls in and gets thicker and thicker, to the point where you cannot see the floor of the forest. The little bit of moonlight that manages to make its way through the boughs of the trees trickles through and then vanishes into these slowly-shifting bits of fog. Your breath, every time you exhale, is visible, as the cold night air begins to take. You find yourselves instinctively shivering, as you cannot grow close to each other for heat, nor build a fire. The night, while uncomfortable, you do manage to get an evening's bit of mostly uncomfortable rest, but rest nonetheless. Eventually coming to as the morning sun comes up and heats it up, the fog begins to fade away and burn away. You're at about an hour past sunrise as you all unrestfully come to consciousness as the temperature shift hits. You manage to relieve yourselves of your spider silk-based hammocks and/or tree grasping. Both you and Trinket have found this way of clutching onto the tree. Trinket's used to the wild.
Travis: This is, like, sunup, right?
Matt: It's about seven, 7 30 in the morning.
Sam: Can I do a quick scry back to the poo jar that I left back in our kitchen?
Matt: Certainly.
Sam: Just to make sure that our home base is okay.
Matt: You take a moment and concentrate on the kitchen. At this point in time, you can see early morning. Laina is currently in there, yawning, and is cleaning about and starting to make a small breakfast for all the guards. You can hear in the distance, some conversation in the distant room. It appears to be a couple of your various employed mercenaries having a conversation as she's making breakfast.
Sam: So they're fine.
Matt: They seem fine.
Sam: So I knock that one off, and I'll try for Pike.
Matt: Okay. Concentrating on Pike-- about two minutes of hard concentration. There's no connection.
Sam: They wiped my poo away.
Matt: You gather, due to the relatively fresh and unstable nature of this potion you had concocted, you can only have one source connection up at a time, so when you left it in your keep, it seems that the one you had at the temple of Sarenrae was alleviated of its magical presence. What was once a magical scry poo is literally just Scan-scat at the temple.
Sam: Which some could argue is magical in its own right.
Matt: Sure enough. With a high enough persuasion roll.
Laura: Teacher. Teacher.
Taliesin: Does it change color when it loses its power?
Matt: You don't know.
Taliesin: Damn it! I want to know.
Sam: Only one way to find out.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: Ask Pike when you see her again. (laughs)
Taliesin: Your poo power may come in very handy. This is good to know.
Travis: Let's go find an abandoned building and set up.
Liam: Could we throw in a Scanlan grenade and be able to see through it?
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: A scat grenade.
Liam: A scat grenade.
Sam: Sure.
Liam: Scatlan.
Marisha: Scatlan!
Taliesin: Scatlan!
Sam: I could get in, shit in their bedroom, and leave.
Liam: You shit in your hand, and you toss it.
Sam: Oh, yeah. That, too! Pull the pin. (all laugh)
Laura: Yeah. Remember that. That's awesome.
Travis: This is what happens.
Laura: You could fly overhead with Keyleth.
Sam: Yes?
Laura: Drop it like a bomb!
Sam: And then we'd have eyes in there.
Laura: I like it.
Sam: I like this a lot. Give me something to eat.
Marisha: What?
Sam: I need some fuel.
Travis: Holy crap.
Laura: I have a sweet potato right here, Scanlan.
Sam: Sweet potato? That's good, yes. Some prunes?
Marisha: Yeah, something hearty.
Liam: All right. We're off the rails.
Travis: Step one of this.
Matt: So, you make your way down into the forest. About another hour and a half of travel before you start getting to where the trees begin to clear up a little bit, and you can see the base of the cleared-off mountain that Whitestone Castle is built upon, and the pathway that descends into the outer wall of the city of Whitestone.
Laura: How far of a travel is it down into the city?
Matt: It's maybe a quarter mile.
Laura: So we can do that a little amount of time.
Matt: Space-relation-wise, you guys are just getting to this side of the forest right there. Right there, and this is the mountain.
Laura: So if we're going to try stealth this shit in--
Travis: Do we take the stealthy one or the invisible one?
Sam: Wait.
Marisha: Wait. Wait. Which plan are we doing first?
Travis: First part is getting an abandoned building.
Laura: So that we can be near the tree to protect you.
Sam: So that we can be townspeople.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Right?
Taliesin: So you can get a beret.
Travis: Abandoned building, part one.
Sam: We're setting up shop.
Laura: Get into the town.
Travis: So who goes and finds the abandoned building?
Sam: Percy is known here.
Taliesin: Which is why I'm going to be wearing-- I haven't been seen in years, and when I was seen, I was much younger, and honestly--
Marisha: Yes, but the Briarwoods knew who you were.
Taliesin: I had different hair. Yes, they do.
Marisha: The Briarwoods recognized you instantly.
Taliesin: They did, which was disorienting.
Sam: But they're not on sentry duty.
Travis: We need a forward operating base, so who wants to be stealthy or invisible and find an empty building?
Liam: Question  for the Assassin path of rogue, at 9th level, if I have seven days, which is way too much time, I can impersonate anyone I want. In half a day, could I just be a dirty nobody?
Matt: Yeah. You'd be able to disguise yourself.
Sam: We also have the hat.
Matt: The disguise kit?
Sam: His hat of disguise. Percy knows this town. Perhaps Percy should wear the hat.
Travis: Does it require attunement?
Sam: Just a few minutes, I think.
Taliesin: I already have the hat.
Sam: Yes, you had it from the dinner party.
Taliesin: I've been trying to think of what sorts of buildings would be the most defensible and the least likely to arouse suspicion. Things with basements?
Matt: A lot of the houses have basements. There are varying degrees of it. There are larger homesteads that were reserved for the actual nobles that ran the day-to-day life of Whitestone when your family was in power. As you heard from Desmond, probably the places where the new nobles live. Those are the ones that have the gates surrounding them: the larger homesteads scattered throughout the town.
Taliesin: That's too obvious.
Matt: It's far too obvious. There are many small abodes and even some farm-based hovels. The poor end of town is the farming side, which is the southwest, which is the closest area to where you guys made your stop earlier.
Taliesin: I would almost say a shopping district. If there's an abandoned storefront.
Matt: The shopping district is the center of town around the town square.
Laura: Around the Sun Tree?
Matt: Yeah. Right there.
Taliesin: Might be too close.
Sam: Before we go marching in there, finding an abode to live in is not going to be too difficult. We'll need food.
Laura: Are we living in there?!
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: We're not going to be there for long.
Travis: We have dried food rations.
Taliesin: We have food rations. We have options.
Laura: We've got food for days.
Sam: We might be there for days and days.
Laura: We've got food for days.
Travis: We've got dried food rations.
Sam: We also have to go around town and, forgive me if I'm going too far with your plan here, but aren't we trying to win allies among the people?
Taliesin: I have a plan.
Sam: But we'll need to communicate with them. How?
Laura: He has a plan.
Travis: He has a plan.
Sam: (sighs) All right.
Travis: Come on. Drop your pants and get with the plan.
Marisha: What time is it? Have we gone to sleep, or are we waking up?
Matt: You guys are awake. After this discussion, I'd say it's about 8:00 in the morning. 8:30.
Taliesin: Let's make our way in.
Liam: This is the time.
Laura: We should stealth in.
Marisha: Are we doing the tree thing right now?
Matt: Actually, your travel to the city and you're on the outskirts of it now. It would be closer to 9:30.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Yeah. We try to get in.
Taliesin: We find a place to at least set up our operation.
Marisha: Well, that's what I was going to say. Do we want to find operations, try and recoup--
Liam: We don't really know what we're going to find this morning. Those big guys could still be there; we don't know.
Taliesin: We don't.
Liam: We don't know if there are people in the pocket of the Briarwoods here.
Travis: It's like 12% of a plan.
Marisha: If we take a day to get in and get settled, I can do a Heroes' Feast and then I start crack of dawn in the morning?
Liam: I think that's a good idea.
Taliesin: Let's get in and set up.
Liam: Hole up. Let's find a place.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: Wait, we're just going to walk into the city?
Taliesin: No, we're going to stealth into the city.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: We're going to cast Pass Without a Trace on everybody.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Beard check?
Travis: That was an eight.
Matt: Stealth?
Travis: Beard check.
Matt: Oh. (laughs) Your beard is pretty much at the fullest it'll ever be. You gather you can probably get a little more thickness to it, but your beard is at maximum, Grog. The fact that you even have a goliath with a beard is a feat of magic in its own right.
Travis: Amazing.
Liam: You would be a freak.
Travis: Is it like that Vidal Sassoon commercial? Whip it.
Marisha: That's dope.
Taliesin: Isn't that dope?
Sam: Grog, I've heard that no one in this town wears a beard.
Laura: Oh, natural 20 on stealth!
Travis: You can forget it. I won't go in.
Matt: So you guys are traveling as a group. I need stealth checks from everybody.
Taliesin: Do we have Pass Without a Trace?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Can we each take a little bit of time to look more like commoners?
Taliesin: I'm wearing my hat, too.
Travis: Look like commoners?
Sam: I rub dirt all over my face.
Travis: Shit, I'm a goliath.
Laura: Plus, we have a bear.
Sam: You should try to look less handsome.
Marisha: Yeah, we do look like quite the motley crew.
Liam: I'm wearing a natural 20.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Did you roll a natural 20, as well?
Liam: I did.
Matt: Both of you guys rolled natural 20s in stealth?
Liam: Had a little help with Luck, but I got it.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: That's really good, because I rolled a one.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: We've got Pass Without a Trace, so 28.
Taliesin: 11.
Marisha: Still a failure.
Travis: Are we all going together? Are we not sending one person in to go find an empty building?
Sam: We're all going together.
Matt: You guys are all going together. You dirty yourselves up a bit. You're still a large goliath. You're still a few half-elves, a gnome.
Laura: There's still a bear.
Matt: Outside of illusion magic, you're still going to stick out like a sore thumb.
Laura: Could we cast illusion magic? Do we have it?
Sam: What's illusion magic?
Liam: I'm walking 50 feet in front of everybody else.
Laura: Seeming! To make Grog and Trinket look like commoners.
Liam: I'm 50 feet in front of everyone else.
Laura: Yeah, do that!
Marisha: Oh, yeah! Seeming us?
Sam: Sure. All right. I will cast Seeming on us.
Matt: This is a legit use of Seeming, too. Okay.
Sam: We'll all look like dirty--
Marisha: As opposed to the cows? Come on.
Sam: -- dirty, ragged peasants.
Matt: Trinket, as well?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Trinket looks like a donkey.
Laura: No, he'll just be a really drunk peasant.
Marisha: A donkey. A mule.
Sam: Can I just say this? Can we just leave Trinket behind--
Laura: No!
Sam: I don't want to walk in there with a bear!
Laura: He'll look like a fucking donkey, or he'll look like another commoner.
Sam: I think I can only make us all look the same.
Laura: Then he'll look like a fucking commoner.
Matt: Of similar size. I believe, as far as Seeming is concerned-- If not, then I'll allow it for the purposes of this.
Laura: He'll look like a commoner--
Marisha: A Clydesdale!
Laura: -- a weird commoner.
Travis: Leave the bear.
Taliesin: A milk cow!
Laura: I'm not leaving a fucking bear on the outside of town where there's hounds around, and there's fucking vampires and birds flying around, fuck you!
Sam: Oh, wait, no! You can give each target a new appearance.
Matt: Yep!
Sam: So I can make everyone look a little different.
Matt: Each creature can seem a foot shorter or taller, or appear thin, fat, or in between.
Marisha: Make him look like a milk cow.
Matt: You can't change their body type. So, Trinket will still be a four-legged creature, but you can make him look like a different four-legged creature.
Laura: There you go!
Sam: Okay. He's a milk cow.
Liam: Real talk, real talk, Scanlan. My sister will cut you.
Travis: Or do you want him to be a donkey, something we can move. Milk cows are slow.
Liam: Bring the bear.
Taliesin: Donkeys can move more quickly. This is true.
Sam: All right. Donkey.
Laura: All right.
Sam: He's an ass.
Matt: All right, so Trinket takes on the form of a donkey.
Laura: (laughs) So are you darling, so are you.
Travis: Just like her owner.
Matt: The rest of you are a smattering of various humanoids, you--
Laura: (fake coughing)
Sam: I make myself look like a weird hunchback, sort of, not all there.
Matt: Okay, so you guys look like pretty rough peasants, dirty faces. You know, hair a little razzled. It looks like you've been living the harsh life on the outskirts of the slums of Whitestone for quite some time--
Travis: I wanted to be a model.
Matt: -- with a donkey.
Taliesin: (goat bleat)
Matt: So. You guys, utilizing your stealth checks and the Seeming, you make your way up to the-- which side of Whitestone are you coming in from?
Taliesin: Thank you for the double 20.
Matt: Percy?
Laura: Where are we coming up?
Taliesin: Coming in from the west.
Matt: Okay, so you come into this entrance here. You make your way into the center of town, blending in best you can. There are a few folks who see you enter, just give you a strange look. You all are unfamiliar to the denizens of Whitestone--
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: -- but you don't look like a threat, per se. So you are noticed, and some people seem to just stop and watch you pass, but no one seems to make any active mention, note, or change in behavior towards it.
Travis: Are we checking buildings while we're walking through?
Laura: I have passive perception of 21; I'm always looking.
Liam: I walk over to just one random person on the street and say, anyone hiring hands? On farms?
Laura: Our farm burned down!
Matt: (laughs) Make a deception roll. I'll give you advantage on it because the Seeming does give you the visual perspective of being close to their type.
Liam: That is a four-- No, hold on--
Laura: No, no, no.
Liam: I'm gonna use Luck, that's the Luck.
Travis: Was the first number gonna be a 40?
Liam: No, it's not 40. So it's 14.
Matt: Okay. That's two Luck rolls, by the way, that you've spent.
Liam: Yeah, I know.
Matt: The woman you approach who's probably in her early 30s, pale blonde hair, looks like she actually might be losing it in some places, gives you a look and goes, "You poor people shouldn't be here."
Liam: We just need some work.
Matt: "You'll find it, but you're not going anywhere else. Welcome to Whitestone." She turns around and walks back, joining arms with apparently a man that she's paired with, and the two of them just walk away, a bit dumbfounded that people walked into Whitestone. As this happens, you glance over your shoulder and you see coming from the northern edge from this side wall-- (sounds of booming footsteps)
Laura: Oh, we should avoid that shit!
Matt: A very tall, noticeably undead giant with its jaw broken off and hanging from the hinge, dried, caked blood across its chest, it's just dragging this large club behind it.
Liam: Where are we? What are our surroundings right now?
Matt: You right now, you're in a T. To the right and left are roads that go along the inside of the wall that surrounds Whitestone, to the front of you is the path that leads further into the city.
Laura: Let's go into the city!
Travis: We casually begin--
Taliesin: I wanna head through the city, possibly in the direction of the cemetery.
Matt: Cemetery's over here.
Taliesin: Yeah, I wanna head in that direction.
Matt: All right. So you guys make your way through--
Laura: Keeping an eye out for, you know, buildings that look clustered and abandoned that we can hide in.
Taliesin: What's changed?
Matt: What you've noticed has changed is, one largely, the population is far more sparse than you recall. What was once a bustling city, you're now seeing about half as many people as you would would see this time of day. Going through, everyone seems to be in relatively poor health. There are a few buildings that look long-term abandoned, immediately in this area here, in the outskirts, catches your guys' eye. You do notice that the corner lamps that you had set up at the different corners of the streets appear to be shattered.
Travis: Interesting.
Matt: There would be like, you know, glass oil lanterns that at night someone would go around and light them after the sunset. The posts that hold them now are all either broken, or the glass itself has been shattered.
Marisha: They want it to be really dark.
Taliesin: They want it to be really dark. I'm also thinking about that cemetery.
Sam: We're not gonna live in a cemetery, that's super creepy.
Marisha: As opposed to all of the other things we've done?
Taliesin: Everything here is super creepy.
Laura: Is there any other abandoned buildings around?
Marisha: As opposed to sleeping in the Underdark?
Matt: There are plenty of buildings that look dark and mostly untouched in this section here, as you begin to move closer and closer inward.
Taliesin: Let's get east of the center square and set up camp.
Laura: Okay. Where's the castle? Is it on the top of the--
Travis: It's north.
Laura: Oh, it's that thingy? Okay.
Sam: We're trying to shoot for here?
Matt: Okay. You guys move this way, as you push towards the center of this here. You--
Sam: You speak Giant, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: You move past the center here and to the left of you, you can see the town square and there it is, the Sun Tree. Very, very large, you imagine beautiful tree at one time, full height was probably about 40 feet tall. The branches twist out, and almost look like they're hanging loosely, the ends, everything looks droopy and desolate; there's not a leaf on it.
Marisha: Can I do some sort of a check from a distance to see if I can recognize what kind of tree it is?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Marisha: 18.
Matt: Okay. It's hard to tell from this distance, there are a number of types of trees it could be. It's not indigenous to this land. The fact that it grew here means that either it was transplanted, or it was some sort of--
Marisha: Magical grower.
Laura: (sings) Divine Intervention!
Matt: -- magical creation for its presence.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: And you do see the silhouette of the eight figures slowly swaying from beneath the branches.
Travis: We continue on. Don't pay too much attention to it. Find a place to post up.
Marisha: Right. Don't get emotional.
Laura: If you, if you do your nature-y spell from inside a building, does it still do the same thing or do you have to be next to the tree while you're doing it?
Travis: That's a large radius, right?
Marisha: So the way the spell works, I can do it one of two ways. I can do it instantaneously, essentially grow up a whole bunch of plants and brush and shrubbery around me, or I can wait and I can concentrate for a while and instill a plant with vibrant--
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: -- life energy and heal the farmlands and it would stretch out for a really far radius.
Laura: Let's keep moving.
Marisha: I'm gonna probably wanna do more the second one.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Do it from inside a house.
Matt: Did you guys want keep moving down this path, to go through the square, closer to the tree, do you want to go southward?
Marisha: I don't know, it's a central point.
Laura: We avoid the tree a little bit and just keep going straight.
Matt: Okay, so you're going this way.
Laura: Yeah?
Liam: There's a larger building, isn't there? I can't see--
Taliesin: Actually, I would say let's get a good look at the tree, let's walk by it.
Sam: Oh, we're gonna walk by the tree?
Marisha: Look like it's no big deal.
Travis: I know.
Matt: You guys turn left, and you make your way towards the town square. And as you enter the square, looking around, you can see there are what would have been carts and small booths set up for selling of meats and other goods, what was a small, you know, barter-and-sale based hub of this town-- nowhere near on the scale of Emon's bazaar, but you know, enough to support this town-- desolate. All look to be closed down and untouched for quite some time. As you get a closer look to the-- actually I'm gonna have you guys all roll perception checks. You're not getting too close to the tree.
Travis: Five.
Sam: Nine.
Liam: 26.
Laura: 19. No, that's a-- yeah, 19.
Marisha: 14.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: As you guys are keeping on the outskirts of the square, it's hard to make out the details, and the weathering has muddled the figures that are hanging there. Percy and Vax, you guys notice the figure on the far left--
Liam: The body.
Matt: The body on the far left has red paint smattered across its face and its arms. It's wearing a dirtied, green, vest-like robe that dangles below it as it hangs there, loosely. Immediately to the left of it you see what looks to be the body of a child. The child is dressed up in a purplish, billowing shirt, very fine silk shirt and pantaloons, and is dangling there next to it. To the left of that you see what appears to be a female, adorned in greens and browns, looks like red paint has been driven through the hair, and dangles to the left of that figure. Next to that, you see what appears to be--
Taliesin: I am walking the fuck away.
Matt: -- you see what appears to be another woman, dressed in dark blacks and browns, leathers, some furs across the top, dark hair, dangling. To the left of that you see another man dressed similarly, dark greys and blacks, long dark hair, dangling. To the left of that you see a rather large man, older, rotund, probably in his forties, clothing padded but mostly open chest, hair completely shaven bald, it looks like there are dark scars placed across the face, hanging. To the left of that you see, this figure is actually not humanoid, you see what appears to have been--
Marisha: Oh my god.
Matt: -- a recently hunted bear, who is dangling.
Marisha: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Sam: Wait, what? Is that us?
Marisha: It looks like us.
Travis: What?
Marisha: It's us!
Sam: They killed people they thought were us, or they killed--
Liam: Or it's a message.
Sam: Or it's a message to us.
Marisha: Do they look like us or were they just dressed like us? Are they made to look like us?
Matt: Do you want to get closer and look?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm a little curious--
Travis: Do you want to get closer and look? Are you sure--
Taliesin: Is there anything around the tree other than us?
Travis: They're probably watching the tree.
Taliesin: Is there something at the base of the tree, is there anything?
Matt: From what you can see now, nothing but just rocks and stones and piles of loose cloth rotting below it. Approaching, it looks like each one of these bodies has been dressed up. It looks like the color in the redhead's hair has been smeared through with paint. It looks like the person who has been painted red has been slapdash. You gather with a moment of looking at it that these were not individuals that were caught this way. This was set up as a message.
Laura: (whispers) My god.
Sam: Oh shit.
Laura: Keep walking, keep your head down and keep walking.
Marisha: Oh, my god.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Marisha: Oh, my god.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Sam: You mean in town? Of course they are!
Travis: No, remember they have to, like, be where the soil they came from is?
Laura: No, they have, like hideouts, they don't have to be where the soil they came from is.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Sam: Holy shit.
Liam: They're in their keep, buried deep.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: You guys continue past, down this pathway. There's other buildings you see in the vicinity that, you know, look abandoned or for the most part unoccupied. I'd say about one in every three buildings looks like it's in disuse.
Liam: Did we see this big building right here as we walked by? Yeah, that big one.
Matt: You guys came-- made this path-- you can see a little bit, you can see is a--
Taliesin: I should know what it is, anyway.
Matt: -- iron fence, it used to belong to one of the noble families of Whitestone. Each one of these large buildings here, these three, and you remember this, were the three families that ran the town.
Taliesin: We can't go anywhere near those buildings. We have to stay as far away as humanly possible.
Marisha: Question. You said there were eight bodies?
Matt: Eight bodies.
Marisha: Is there one that looks like a gnome cleric and one that looks like a dragonborn sorcerer?
Laura: That was the first one.
Matt: The one's painted all red--
Travis: The one's painted all red--
Laura: There wasn't a gnome cleric one there.
Matt: No. There was a bear.
Liam: There was no cleric when we faced them before. All of us who stood against them in Emon.
Travis: We're all there.
Sam: Body of my guy. Is he sort of handsome?
Marisha: But, it does mean that it was because of when they saw us in Emon--
Matt: Think of an eight-year-old child.
Laura: It was a kid, yo.
Sam: Oh, it was a child? Oh, god.
Marisha: -- because Tiberius wasn't here with the crows.
Travis: No, it was because of Emon.
Marisha: It was because of Emon.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: So, can we get like a vague idea of how long these people look like they might have been here?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: (whispers) Fuck, I'm not good at this shit.
Taliesin: Can I help?
Matt: Sure. It would be advantage on that check for you.
Marisha: Oh, that, you know, that wasn't bad. Woo!
Taliesin: Oh! Never mind.
Marisha: I'll take that 19, 21?
Matt: 21? You gather these bodies have probably been here for the better part of a week, week and a half? There is some mild decomposition starting to settle in, there is a bit of bloating to some of them. Couldn't have been much longer than that.
Sam: A week? That's before we set out.
Marisha: Why would they put a warning for us here in the city?
Sam: They assumed we would come, but they don't know that we're here.
Taliesin: They invited us.
Liam: Those birds might have told them we were here.
Sam: This was a week ago, this was before we were even close.
Travis: Let's stick with the plan.
Taliesin: Sticking with the plan.
Sam: Let's go find a building.
Taliesin: Going to go find something that's a decent distance away from the three noble households, that has a reasonable view of the tree.
Travis: Yeah, 150 feet from the tree.
Matt: That would probably be somewhere in this vicinity here, as the three main houses are right there.
Taliesin: Something with a second-floor view, but with some distance.
Travis: Preferably three bedroom, three bath.
Matt: (laughs) I'd say make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Meh. Six.
Laura: Can I look out too, I've been on the lookout for a building the whole time!
Matt: Yeah. I'll say, I'll say it takes the better part of the next hour or so, and you do a little bit of meandering to find it, you guys are being stealthy best you can through alleys and such, but even so you are out in the open, midday, but you are also, you know, under Seeming.
Marisha: Does it look like there's a covering nearby, roughly, 30 feet or so from the tree?
Laura: 30 feet?!
Sam: 30 feet?
Matt: No.
Sam: What about 150?
Matt: No, the tree is out in the center, and essentially the nearest building is probably anywhere from 100, 200 feet away from it. It's the tree out in the middle of the square, and the square, which used to have probably more things towards the center, more temporary establishments, have all been put to the sides and put to disuse.
Sam: Maybe underground stuff.
Matt: You do manage to see what appear to be what was once a tavern or an inn of some kind that is silent, closed, the doors locked and chained. The windows look dusty.
Laura: Can we sneak in the windows, so it keeps chained?
Matt: Okay. You go around the side of it, to the alley.
Taliesin: Dust of tracelessness.
Laura: Yeah, Dust of tracelessness.
Sam: Are you guys going in?
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: This is where we're going to hole up.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I kind of want to talk to the tree.
Laura: Then go talk to the tree, Keyleth.
Matt: The window is locked.
Sam: Wait, not now. Not now.
Travis: No, no, no, no, no, not yet.
Sam: Let's find a place first.
Travis: Let's post up first.
Liam: What am I, stealthing right now, or checking for--
Matt: Continuing your guys' stealth as your going, this would be your attempting to unlock the window.
Liam: Oh, unlock, okay. So that's a 22.
Matt: 22, okay. It takes a bit to jostle it in a way, because the lock is on the inside, but there are ways that you could shimmy the glass and get something underneath to push it aside. You manage to get the window open, and as you pull it up the dust billows up around you, you set it aside. You step in and the place smells stale, musty. Dark. There are, you can see, candlesticks set around that have not been lit for a while, and the oil lanterns that normally light the interior of the main tavern social area have been long in disuse.
Laura: Is there a cellar here?
Matt: If you guys want to look around. Are you all going in?
Taliesin: Yeah, we're all going in.
Travis: Yeah, we're all going in.
Matt: You as well? Or are you talking to the tree?
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Come inside.
Marisha: Does anyone want to come talk to a tree with me?
Taliesin: Not yet.
Laura: Not yet, not just yet.
Travis: Don't bring that-- don't mess with that thing.
Liam: Yeah, come with us. Keyleth, come with us.
Marisha: All right, all right.
Travis: Once we do it, it's like ringing a dinner bell.
Marisha: All right, all right, all right, I'm coming, I'm coming.
Sam: I'm gonna look for a brothel! (all laugh)
Taliesin: That's going to be the saddest brothel.
Marisha: The saddest brothel!
Matt: You find your way inside the abandoned tavern. And it is what was this giant L-shaped building, right here in the corner of the town square. There is a second floor, approximately runs 20 rooms. They are all currently unlocked, some of them left open, the bedding covered in dust, some of it looks like it was left in a hurry.
Travis: Yeah, we'll take it.
Matt: There is a cellar.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You find the cellar, and down there, there are a number of empty barrels, and a couple of ones that are still full.
Sam: Ooh!
Matt: One that appears to be a heavy whiskey barrel, probably about twenty untouched wine bottles. A little bit of ale, but it looks like a lot of ale was either completely used, or taken with whoever left and abandoned the premises.
Laura: I think we can definitely use these for explosions, if we need them.
Marisha: Ooh!
Sam: Or to drink.
Taliesin: Muscle relaxers. Is there a view of the tree?
Matt: Going from a number of the rooms up top, not every room has a window, but it's like every third room on that side of the building does have a view of the entire square.
Marisha: Can I get an eye as to how far away it is?
Matt: I'd say probably about 200 feet? 250 feet?
Laura: Can you go invisible and still talk to the tree?
Marisha: Hmm?
Sam: I can make her invisible if she can talk to the tree.
Laura: Can you talk to the tree if you're invisible?
Matt: If you cast a spell while invisible, unless it's Greater Invisibility, then it will drop the illusion.
Sam: I can make her invisible.
Marisha: I got an idea.
Sam: We can burrow under, we can--
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: -- find something closer.
Marisha: Actually, what are we up to right now? Are we doing anything? Are we busy?
Sam: Well, there are windows on the first floor, right?
Matt: There are some windows in the tavern; there was one on the second floor.
Laura: We're in the cellar, that's why I went to the cellar.
Marisha: Oh, there's a cellar?
Sam: I'm gonna just find some old rags, or anything I can find, tablecloths, and just cover the windows.
Laura: But make it not obvious, because it doesn't want to look like we covered the windows.
Sam: True.
Liam: I've watched you pass through solid stone and earth. How long can you do that for?
Marisha: I mean, I can burrow us a tunnel right now.
Laura: Do it!
Liam: Can you get us close to underneath the tree?
Laura: That's what she's going to do.
Marisha: I'm going to do it right now. I'm going to cast Move Earth.
Laura: From the cellar.
Matt: You're going to start carving a tunnel--
Marisha: To the direction of the tree. And I want to be careful, I don't want to damage the roots of the tree at all. So, as I start getting closer, I want to start looking for the roots of the tree.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough to find old rags; all of them have that stale, musty towel scent to them. You get them a little wet. There's no water here; all the water here has dried out.
Sam: We use the wine.
Matt: You'll have to use the wine; it'll probably kill some of the bacteria. There are wells throughout the towns you see, ground wells that are set in the city. There is no nearby river. The closest river, the one you know about, is about a 30 minute walk south.
Taliesin: It's a bit of a ways.
Matt: Yeah. You use that to coax them out a bit. It's easy enough for you to go around and put cloth over the windows. It's a dark interior, so it's not like an immediate--
Taliesin: Just so light doesn't leak out.
Liam: But, just in case, I think I'll hang back. I'm not going down to the pre-made tunnel, I'll just keep an eye above ground.
Travis: I am, too, I'm staying up in the tavern.
Laura: I'm going with you to the tunnel.
Taliesin: I'm going to tinker a little thing. Can I borrow an arrow?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Thank you. I'm going to tinker a very little, easy thing.
Travis: You want the top floor, I'll take the bottom floor.
Taliesin: I want to be able to fire and ignite one of the parchments on an arrow. So that I can--
Laura: Do you want me to shoot the arrow for you?
Taliesin: -- set a burn mark at a distance.
Matt: Interesting. Okay.
Taliesin: It would be a spark, as opposed to actual flame. It would just be concussive force.
Matt: Right, it's more getting the parchment there without it tearing or the arrow leaving it behind, because it is a thin, flimsy piece.
Taliesin: It would be coiled.
Matt: Coiled and then--
Taliesin: Hit, release.
Matt: That's going to be a really intricate-- go ahead and roll a tinkerer's check.
Liam: 20, 20, 20.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: Okay. You toy with it for a while; you think you have something that may work. You're uncertain as to on its release if it'll function or not. So, write down 'Parchment Delivery Arrow' with a question mark next to it.
Sam: Maybe there's a simpler way.
Taliesin: There might be, but just in case there's not, I want to make sure this works.
Marisha: You could always slap it up there and shoot it with a flame arrow.
Taliesin: I've got three of them, so I've got options. But I just want to make sure--
Marisha: How's my burrowing going? 200 feet.
Matt: All right. You continue to burrow through the ground, moving the earth aside and the tunnel opens before you like the clay slowly melting away. And it is wet earth. Eventually, you start getting to a few thick roots under the tree.
Laura: Can you talk to it from here, Keyleth?
Matt: The roots that you see, they continue past the tunnel. They go very, very deep into the ground.
Marisha: Awesome. I'm going to clear out a little more area, and I'm going to touch the roots and cast Speak with Plants.
Travis: Holy shit.
Sam: Speak with Plants?
Liam: Haroom haroom.
Taliesin: The only superpower more pathetic than Aquaman's.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Shut up.
Taliesin: Sorry, had to.
Laura: (kid's voice) Gee wiz, I wish I had some water.
Marisha: (kid's voice) The sun is so bright today!
Laura: Too bad we don't have Tiberius with us with his endless water fucking pitcher.
Liam: It's Ent voice. Haroom haroom!
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Laura: Sure, sure, sure.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Sam: I can go to one of the wells and get some water.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: Hey, he's cool sometimes.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: Sometimes.
Taliesin: It's what fish say. Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: That's what fish say.
Liam: That's all they say.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Matt: You finish the spell and you reach out and you touch the root and you instill the force of your nature-based divine energies into the root. Silence.
Sam: Oh no.
Matt: This tree is dead.
Travis: No!
Sam: Dead?!
Laura: You can bring it back!
Marisha: I can bring it back. Should I?
Sam: You can do that?
Marisha: I'm a druid, that's my-- yeah man!
Sam: You can bring dead things back?
Marisha: Yeah, it's called Plant Growth!
Sam: What?!
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: This I gotta see.
Marisha: Should I? Okay. But it's dead. What time is it now?
Matt: Right now, with all the traveling you guys have done, I'd say it's past noon, probably. Including the time you've spent inside the tavern, searching it through and preparing it as your base of operations.
Laura: Try it.
Marisha: Should I start it up now?
Sam: Yeah!
Liam: Go for it!
Laura: Go for it!
Travis: Go for it!
Marisha: I'm going to start my Plant Growth. I'm going to drop. Can I try to clear out an area where I can-- I should be fine.
Laura: Reach up in its junk.
Taliesin: Put your hand in it.
Marisha: I'm going to strap on my gloves.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Turn and cough.
Marisha: Hope you guys are ready for this.
Sam: Is it going to be loud?
Marisha: No, it's just going to take a long time.
Travis: Vax and I are guarding the tavern, so if anything comes--
Sam: I'm going to get provisions ready to spoon-feed her.
Marisha: Actually, before I do that, can we all have one last meal together and eat a Heroes' Feast?
Laura: I like it.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Certainly.
Taliesin: Let's eat.
Matt: So, you've made the purchase within Emon for how many of the requisite chalice for the Heroes' Feast?
Marisha: How many did I buy?
Taliesin: You have at least one.
Marisha: It gets used. It's expensive.
Laura: It's $1000.
Marisha: It's $1000.
Matt: It's a gem-encrusted bowl worth 1000 gold pieces, which the spell consumes. So, we'll say how many of those did you purchase in Emon, knowing you'd be casting this in the future?
Marisha: How much gold do we have?
Sam: Not a lot.
Laura: Is that for each person, or 1000 gold for the whole party?
Matt: For the whole feast.
Laura: How about you did three bowls?
Marisha: Three bowls.
Matt: Mark 3000 gold from the group's queue. And you have three gem bowls, using one now. So you have two bowls left at your disposal. And you prepare a Heroes' Feast for the group to consume.
Marisha: I take some of that leftover wine, use that to make it fancy wine.
Sam: This is great. This is awesome.
Laura: Are we eating in the cellar?
Marisha: So you get, I believe, 2d12 additional hit points on top of your maximum hit points.
Sam: Wait, forever?
Laura: No, no, for how long?
Marisha: For 24 hours.
Matt: It lasts for 24 hours.
Sam: 2d12?
Matt: So, until about--
Sam: What the fuck is a d12? I've never rolled a d12.
Matt: -- 2PM tomorrow. So mark that down, somebody note that it lasts until 2PM.
Laura: An additional 2d12?
Matt: 2d10?
Marisha: Oh, I'm sorry, 2d10.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Laura: Overall hit points.
Marisha: And, you should have- Ooh! I got two tens!
Laura: Ah, badass!
Matt: Trinket can also benefit from this, by the way, too.
Laura: Yay! Nice.
Taliesin: You also get other bonuses.
Matt: Yep. You are immune to poison, and diseases, and being frightened, and all wisdom saving throws are made with advantage. Feast is awesome.
Sam: Why don't we do that right before we go see the Briarwoods, also?
Laura: We have another bowl.
Marisha: We have two more bowls.
Sam: Because that is fucking awesome.
Marisha: Doing that right now, just in case the Briarwoods decide to come say hello.
Taliesin: Or any of the other terrible people who live in this town because there are terrible people in this town.
Travis: That was a delicious feast.
Sam: The tikka masala was tangy!
Marisha: So, we're immune to poison--
Matt: And disease and frightened. So, feast consumed, you now take your next eight hours--
Marisha: I'm going to go meditate. I'll be back in eight hours.
Matt: --to work on this. As she sits down to begin the ritual of cleansing, or bringing plant vitality enhancement to the vicinity of Whitestone. We're going to go ahead and end today's session there. Pick up at the end of that spell at the beginning of next week.
Taliesin: I love you all so much. I love you so much.
Matt: This is getting real interesting.
Marisha: What time is it?
Liam: It was like eight in the morning-ish when we found that building, yeah?
Matt: What?
Liam: Was it around eight in the morning when we got to that house?
Matt: You guys got to town around nine, 9 30.
Laura: So the spell probably started around 11.
Matt: Walking around, seeing things, finding the tavern. And then getting in there and cleaning it out. I'd say you're getting close to one, two o'clock now. You've also taken it slow, you're also being stealthy and not trying to be conspicuous as you move through.
Laura: Right, so we'll start the fight in the morning the next day.
Marisha: Well, I'm meditating now. I dropped into my meditation--
Sam: We're not starting any fight, we're forming an insurgency.
Marisha: Hopefully nothing happens and y'all don't have to defend me while I'm doing this shit. That's what I'm hoping for.
Taliesin: I have stuff to give you, too, 'cause, yeah.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: Man.
Taliesin: Thank you for letting me roll with that, by the way.
Matt: Of course. It fit right into my--
Taliesin: I had a funny feeling it would.
Matt: All right, guys. So we'll pick up from there next week, right in the center of the--
Marisha: A tree full of dead us? That's fucked up.
Laura: That's mean, Matt.
Taliesin: That was some mean shit, man.
Liam: That's what you call a giving tree.
Matt: It's a friendly place, Whitestone.
Sam: And the tree was happy. But not really.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, so that was it.
Matt: All righty. Well, I guess we have the announcements.
Zac: We have some donations.
Matt: Yeah, you guys are awesome.
Zac: And I wanna thank the chatroom for being on their best behavior tonight.
Laura: Thanks, guys.
Zac: Avoided the banhammer.
Sam: The what?
Zac: They avoided the banhammer.
Taliesin: There was no banhammer?
Zac: Not by me, anyway. There's always a couple trolls that find their way.
Matt: Yeah, it's the internet. Trolls happen. But yeah, guys, thank you for being respectful.
Taliesin: Guys, thank you, oh my god, I'm so happy to be sharing this.
Zac: You know what makes you guys so awesome? Donations for charity! (all cheer)
Matt: All right, so we have Maxine Palaquin donated leet, $13.37. That's fantastic, thank you so much, Maxine. Matthew Robinson donated $25, Matthew, brilliance. Elizabeth Lee's donated $100. Thank you so much, Elizabeth, that's incredible. Arthur Still donated $50, thank you so much, Arthur, well-played. Two anonymous people donated $15 and $25. Thank you guys. You're awesome, whoever you are. Sam Falco donated $25. Sam, you're rad. Kristen Wilhelmy donated $20. Way to go, Kristen. John Reed donated $15 and Sarah Hannah donated $100, John, you're awesome, Sarah, you're $100-awesome. Killer Penguin, another $20. Killer Penguin, always a good one. LoveMyMom donated $22.
Taliesin: Yeah we do.
Matt: Thelosthikers donated $25. Hikers, hope you find your way. Brian Wheedler, I think it is, donated $3, thank you so much, Brian. And any amount helps, by the way. Seriously guys that's great. Thank you so much. Patrick Toro donated $1,337. To Extra Life charity. That is fully a leet donation. Wow, Patrick.
Sam: Wait, maybe the decimal place was wrong?
Zac: Well, that would... sorry?
Taliesin: Thank you, we're very sorry!
Matt: I mean, that's incredible, Patrick, seriously. Malachi Olden donated $25. Thank you, Malachi. Emma Angfwist donated $50, sorry for ruining that, but thank you so much, Emma, that's wonderful. Ryan Kerr donated $25, Ryan, you're great. Emma came back with another $25 donation again.
Marisha: Double-dipping.
Matt: Thank you so much, Emma, I really, really appreciate that. And love to you this week. Anonymous donated $35.10, anonymous, whoever you are, love you too.
Zac: We'll go back to the beginning.
Matt: Got you, no worries. Richard Redmond donated $35. Richard, well-played, well done. Jordan Goland donated $15, thank you, Jordan, you're awesome. Another anonymous person donated $25. Whoever you are, hearts. Tim Pearson returns with a $25 donation. Thank you so much, Tim, you're rad. Steven Sudeban Davis donated $100. Steven, thank you, that's incredible. Onna Nelson also donated $100. Onna, you're awesome, that's incredible. Anna Law donated $25, thank you Anna. Well-played. Louis Lovelan donated $560. Louis. This community has so much people, so awesome.
Zac: An interesting note, they said they wanted to donate $20 per episode, 'cause they just caught up.
All: Oh!
Laura: That's a lot! Lot of episodes.
Matt: Chris Black donated $35. Chris, you're fantastic, thank you so much, buddy. Kash Brown donated $50. Kash, yeah. Steven Duggan donated $5. Is that the Dugganator?
Marisha: Yeah, that's Dugganator. Steven Duggan? Yeah.
Matt: Well, $5, thank you so much. James Ramsey donated $25. James, you do encourage goodwill. Tim Nicholson donated $25. Thank you so much, Tim Nicholson. Another anonymous, #pumpkinspicethisbitch donated $25. Thank you so much. Sidney, oh, Rokushepard, Sidney, who we met in New York actually, donated $15. Thank you so much, Sidney. Great to meet you. Arthur Gibbs donated $50. Arthur, you're fantastic, buddy. Joseph Allen donated $25 to Extra Life. Joseph, thank you so much. Another anonymous donated-- Oh, it's Megan! Donated $5. Thank you so much, Megan, really appreciate that. Joseph Ulbricky donated $25. Thank you again, Joseph, that's amazing. Descentfromgrace returns with a $50 donation, Descentfromgrace, yay! Thank you so much. Vin Call donated $10, Vin, thank you so much. GhostKaidan donated $15. Thank you so much, GhostKaidan. And one more that just came in, I believe. Tyson Poirier. I'm sorry if I ruined that. But Tyson, you're awesome, you donated $40, really appreciate that. Donated based on critical fails and natural 20s.
Laura: That's kind of awesome.
Matt: That's kind of a cool way to do it. Guys, you're all continuously fantastic in your support for this community, for the charity causes that we put this out for, ever-humbled.
Zac: Another big charity cause tomorrow. Where you're on drums. So tomorrow the Battle of the Bands from 5-7PM. Your team, in case you don't know, is you, Felicia Day, Tom Lenk, and Josephine, one of our mods. See, Felicia was doing this thing where she was like, what team could I put together that will immediately win fan-favorite without doing any actual work? So we saw your plan, Felicia, and we came back with our team of Lucas, Mr. Spoopy in the back, running the tech board.
Matt: Heck yeah.
Zac: Augie, who is a professional drummer, Hector, and Amy Dallen, and we know, between Amy and Josephine, our chat room is definitely going to be split on who's the chat room favorite, so.
Matt: So is the professional drummer on bass?
Zac: No. Definitely not. He is not on bass.
Taliesin: You dropped Whitestone.
Zac: He is not on bass. Lucas is able to play all songs on Expert on guitar, I think you guys are gonna have your work cut out for you. For sure.
Matt: It's all good.
Zac: For sure. They also work here almost all week, and practice after all the shows. (laughs)
Matt: That's cool.
Taliesin: Is that what you do?
Matt: I prefer to light my opponents on fire while they're drumming, 'cause I find that's a good challenge for their skillset.
Zac: Oh, that would make sure a good show. I'm very okay with it. Like, let's go for it. It's for charity, let's just do it.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: I wanna say, we had a studio audience for this show as well, which we're very thankful for.
Matt: Yes we did, actually.
Marisha: Fellow critter! Alec!
Zac: Come on up real fast. Yeah.
Marisha: Go next to the DM!
Matt: Come here real fast!
Travis: Duck down low!
Matt: Come on down here and say hello.
Alec: What's up, Twitch chat? How you doing? These guys are exactly as awesome as you imagine them to be. I have to say, completely blown away. Absolutely blown away.
Laura: Oh, you.
Taliesin: Thanks for just stopping by. That was cool.
Marisha: Yeah. Yeah.
Matt: Seriously, man. Thank you so much.
Alec: Thanks for having me.
Matt: Of course, buddy. And guys, thank you all so much for tuning in. Hope you enjoyed it. We'll be back next week, Thursday. I guess we'll end here with a is it Thursday yet? Have a good night, guys.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons. Yes, in my face. Thanks, Travis. So tonight we'll kick off here with some announcements. First and foremost, the first run with Loot Crate went very well; you guys rose up and showed your interest in that fantastic product and they've come back! (cheering)
Travis: Put the stank down! Loot Crate!
Matt: Once again--
Sam: (airhorn sounds) (laughter)
Matt: That's wonderful. So yeah, so those of you guys who are tuning into this wonderful offer for the first time, they are offering a $3 subscription-- the word escapes me for some reason.
Sam: Discount.
Matt: Discount, that's the word, because my brain is stuck in fantasy mode.
Marisha: Discount code. I love that you called it a modifier!
Matt: He said "modifier." That was Travis on that one.
Travis: Jock said modifier, y'all.
Matt: Minus $3 modifier to your Critical Role subscription for Loot Crate. But no, Loot Crate is a monthly subscription box. They make a really awesome, continuously new array of geek-centric and gamer gear, toys, T-shirts, wearable content, collectibles, it's badass. Me and Marisha have been members for years ourselves.
Marisha: And Taliesin. High-five. There we go.
Taliesin: High-five. That was so awkward.
Matt: That was delightfully awkward. That was great. So we announced at the end of the last run with Loot Crate that their new upcoming box is themed "dystopia." It's everything post-apocalyptic, they've had a lot of really awesome Robocop, Terminator 3, Matrix items and Bioshock items--
Laura: Fallout 4!
Matt: --a bunch of really cool things in this next Crate. Plus, on top of the previous stuff we've offered, they also put out what's called a DX Box, this Dystopia DX. Which is a special, premium box which contains over $100 in items into it, it's for the really hardcore awesome collectors out there. And the box itself is a lot bigger--
Travis: Yeah! Look at that thing!
Sam: It stands for "Damn! Extreme!" (laughing)
Sam: Are we unboxing? Are we doing this?
Travis: Don't let him get ahead of us! Open that thing!
Sam: Are we just doing the DX?
Laura: Shut up! I gotta savor this.
Liam: Skeletor! Mine!
Laura: No. no, It said small, it said small, Liam!
Liam: Skeletor. Mine!
Marisha: Oh! Is it Skeletor?! Oh, this one's a small too, on this side.
Laura: Oh man. I guess the girls get to take advantage of the Skeletor shirts.
Matt: (Skeletor voice) I'll get you He-Man! (cackles)
Ashley: Whoa! That's a rad shirt!
Marisha: This is a rad shirt.
Taliesin: There's Street Fighter, Street Fighter gym bag.
Laura: Do you want to roshambo to see who keeps the shirt?
Matt: Having had the pleasure of actually playing Captain America once, this is really awesome, and having voiced Iron Man once, this box is made for me. Now I need to voice Skeletor and I'll be good.
Travis: There you go.
Matt: That's fantastic.
Sam: Oh, I'm wearing a Loot Crate shirt right now. No, from this month's Loot Crate--
Taliesin: I got my Street Fighter gym bag.
Laura: That's so cool!
Sam: Are we allowed to open the small one, too?
Matt: Heck yeah! Do it!
Sam: I mean, it's not small. It's more exclusive.
Matt: There you go.
Laura: Did anybody-- who all did voices for Street Fighter? Taliesin did-- You do Street Fighter, don't you?
Taliesin: I do, I got my Street Fighter bag.
Laura: So me and Travis will share this one?
Matt: There you go.
Sam: Here, Marish. What do we got?
Marisha: This is Dragonball, right?
Matt: Yeah, that's Dragonball too.
Marisha: Dragonball!
Sam: I mean, it's too much good stuff.
Matt: That you are re-rolling a new character, Grog suffered a stroke.
Travis: Man, you're good.
Matt: I'm pretty fast on that draw. Pretty quick! Watch out for the microphone. I found in here hidden amongst the rest of the big things a really awesome Stan Lee pin, which is badass because years ago, at an Avengers-themed birthday party, we all dressed up, I actually dressed up as Stan Lee, it was a lot of fun--
Marisha: You did.
Matt: Yeah. We got a whole Avengers Last Supper picture with Stan Lee in the middle just going like--
Laura: What?
Taliesin: It was also-- we had a friend who did Jack Kirby and we got a fight sequence going.
Matt: Yeah, me and him fought. You showed up as the Purple Man and you did karaoke to Start Wearing Purple. That was a good night.
Sam: Stan Lee licks every pin.
Matt: He does. Individually. True believers! (slurp noise)
Taliesin: Excelsior!
Matt: So yeah, for those who aren't subscribers, it's awesome.
Travis: That's a gift, man, that is a great gift.
Sam: And with a $3 discount, if you multiply that by 12, that's like getting a free Crate every year. I'm just making that up.
Travis: I'm not good at math so I believe you.
Marisha: Yeah, I know, I was like, sounds legit. Sure. I'd believe that!
Matt: So, if you want to sign up to get the discount, you go to www.lootcrate.com/criticalrole. if you want to sign up for the DX box, for the real collectors out there, that is www.lootcrate.com/criticalroledx.
Laura: Is there a link in the chat or something, so that--
Matt: There is a link in the chat.
Sam: We'll also tweet one out or something.
Laura: Yeah, we'll tweet at the break.
Matt: Okay, so I'm going to keep this. And you're not going to tell anyone.
Laura: (laughs) Are we supposed to give it back? 'Cause that's not happening.
Marisha: Well, they might belong to Geek and Sundry, but.
Matt: You guys won't tell anyone, right? Anyway, on to the rest of the announcements! Next up, at E3, which is next week, we're going to be showing up on Thursday as part of GameSpot's E3 coverage. We're going to be doing cycling interviews with them starting at noon on Thursday, I believe, next week. So check in with GameSpot Thursday next week to have us sit in front of a camera and make complete and utter fools of ourselves, unlike we do here every Thursday. So that'll be a lot of fun. A reminder, me and Marisha are going to be at the Haven Expo convention in Australia beginning of July, so all you Australian folks in the Southern Hemisphere want to come and say hi, we'd love to see you. Comic Con, San Diego Comic Con is coming up.
Liam: I've heard of that.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. We're going to be there. Looks like we may have a couple panels throughout the week, as well as the main Geek and Sundry panel, so if you guys are planning on coming to that area, keep an eye on the @CriticalRole Twitter, we're going to be announcing those times and rooms when they become available to us, so you can plan to come see us because we'd love to see you out there.
Marisha: It's going to be all of us?
Laura: Come say hi! As Travis says, "Come give us a squeeze."
Travis: Come give us a squeeze. We'll be at the convention hall and we'll be over at Petco in both places at different times.
Ashley: Don't give me a squeeze, it makes me uncomfortable.
Travis: It makes me toot.
Ashley: I don't like being touched.
Travis: (fart sound) That'd be great every time. (fart sound) Oh no.
Ashley: Oh no. I just fart every time.
Matt: That's impressive, how does that keep happening? All right, Taliesin, your next episode of Signal Boost, I believe your last episode of Signal Boost--
Taliesin: It's my last episode of Signal Boost?
Travis: But you're the most interesting man in the world!
Laura: You really are, Taliesin.
Marisha: No one wants you to leave, but you're leaving.
Taliesin: It's really hard to make those episodes and I have to get on with my life.
Liam: Here's a cardboard box, please put all your things in it.
Marisha: And I have to get on with my life, is that what you just said? It's hard to think about 12 things that you legitimately feel passionately about.
Taliesin: Especially when you took four of them on your run. I was really angry about that.
Marisha: Oh, dibsies.
Matt: And we have the "Dear Abby" Vox Machina articles still coming up-- we have a new one tomorrow, I believe? Who's up on that one? Do we know?
Sam: It's Trinket and it's all salmon-based advice. (laughter)
Matt: If only that was the case.
Taliesin: It might be me?
Matt: It might be Percy, we'll find out! Tomorrow it'll be a surprise! Go to geekandsundry.com tomorrow to find out whose article it is. Because we don't know! And I think that's it, that's all, unless anyone has anything else they want to announce, or shall we dive into the game for the evening?
Travis: I would like to announce that I have an egg on my pizza.
Matt: Was that intentional? Or did it just happen?
Laura: It's breakfast pizza, man!
Travis: It's just a mythical thing, you don't question it.
Matt: I love me some breakfast pizza! I didn't know if it was actually breakfast pizza, or he got regular pizza and somehow it got an egg on it.
Marisha: It's like slapstick pizza.
Taliesin: It's very embarrassed pizza.
Matt: Hmm, that's weird. Anyway, let's go ahead and bring it down here, as we return to the realm of Exandria for tonight's episode of Critical Role.
Sam: Is something happening now?
Matt: I hope so, I hope we're at the intro. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello, and welcome back, everyone. So, to bring us into tonight's game, let's do a little recap of recent events. This group of intrepid adventurers, Vox Machina, found their way towards the city of Westruun, which had been partially destroyed by the attacks of the Chroma Conclave, a dangerous group of chromatic dragons, very powerful entities that tore through the countryside. In the wake of this destruction, the Herd of Storms, a roving barbaric tribe that Grog once belonged to, swept in and conquered the city of Westruun. They made an accord with the returning black dragon, Umbrasyl, that they would alleviate most of the spoils of their findings toward it and, as such, would not be in conflict with such a powerful and dangerous entity. Vox Machina swung into the town, cut down the rather brutal and ruthless leader, Kevdak, and aided his son, who seemed to be of more honorable mind, Zanror, and Grog himself, to temporarily take the herd in its current state and use this moment to surprise and hopefully take down this ancient black dragon known as Umbrasyl, the Hope Devourer. They set a trap. They sprung it, and kept the dragon close to the ground as long as they could, dealing vast amounts of damage but not enough to stop it as it began to tear through the herd, as well as Vox Machina itself. Vax and Scanlan had, through the use of magic and ingenuity, teleported themselves inside of the dragon. Didn't seem to go as well as they intended, as the dragon took off, leaving a dangling Grog with his axe and chain stuck in its side, flying off towards the high, darkened mountain of Gatshadow. The midair battle ensued as they tried to find ways to carve their way out of the beast. Vax, utilising the embedded arrow hole and loosening the tension of the muscles with the dragon blade at his disposal, Scanlan's technique a little more sensual.
Sam: I fisted it.
Matt: You fisted the dragon and, as such, found your way out. During this period of time, Vax embraced the blessing of the Raven Queen, taking a level of paladin, Grog got more intelligent, briefly, as a giant eagle, and you managed to reconvene with your party members as the dragon went to recover within its lair at the top of Gatshadow. You then encountered a very elderly goliath who you hadn't seen in quite some time, named Shale, who spoke of the scouting crew that had been obliterated by the dragon. You followed Shale as she led you up the mountain to where the dragon's current lair resides. You did battle with Umbrasyl, a very hard-fought battle, many of you taking a bunch of damage. But you prevailed and Grog dealt the death blow, killing the dragon. You all began to sift through its hoard, the bulk of which we will be doing as you rest into the evening here, Shale shambling down the mountain on her own to see the rest of her greater destiny. So, as we come back, you've all decided to take an evening's rest to recover from this heinous battle that you just suffered. You carved out some elements of Umbrasyl's corpse that were not destroyed by the anger and might of Grog. I believe I told you a tooth count, a blood vial count, what did I not give you from the remains of the black dragon?
Sam: We don't know what we don't know, Matt.
Travis: Scales and claws.
Marisha: I don't know if I got a tooth count, either.
Laura: Oh, you got three vials of Umbrasyl blood, is all we have.
Taliesin: It was a lot of teeth.
Matt: Yeah, it was 15 or so, I believe, because a lot of them were destroyed from the perpetual axe smashing in the mouth--
Laura: Do you want me to write them in the bag?
Travis: Make sure it was dead!
Matt: Yeah, exactly, it was the more important part, really.
Laura: I'm writing the body parts in the Bag of Colding.
Taliesin: What's a dragon kidney stone worth?
Laura: 15 teeth--
Marisha: Does it turn into a pearl?
Taliesin: It might do, you know, a diamond?
Laura: What about scales?
Matt: Well, ten dragon claws were harvested from this entity, and about-- and it's going to take you quite a while, you're probably not going to be able to rest if you continue to harvest from the corpse to get scales off of it, at this point, because it's more dragonhide than just scales, you're taking the hide off of it and you're going to need a team of people and an extended period of time to do that well.
Taliesin: I said I was going to help with the sword, with that process, since I've got it--
Matt: Okay, that does help, it's still going to be-- there's a lot of hide--
Travis: We only have like 60 pounds of scales from previously, left over. (thumps)
Laura: What is happening?
Travis: Umbrasyl's ghost.
Matt: Yeah, ravaging the countryside from the east.
Sam: We're still in the lair?
Matt: You are still in the lair, yes.
Marisha: We have 60 pounds of scales left?
Laura: Yeah, but these would be Umbrasyl scales. This way we can make Umbrasyl black dragon armor!
Travis: Then we can have, yeah, black and white scales.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah, but we could make dragonhide-- with dragonhide you could make badass armor, right?
Liam: Yeah, we could have done that ages ago.
Marisha: (laughs) I want some black and white armor. How--
Matt: Do keep in mind, the Bag of Holding can hold upwards 500 pounds, to the max.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Just be aware.
Sam: It's not infinite?
Matt: No.
Laura: Oh, I thought it was infinite.
Liam: Also, many of the shops that can do that kind of thing are destroyed, so--
Travis: Oh, we're okay, there's not a bunch of big stuff in here.
Taliesin: We'll get some, we should get some.
Sam: What about the gold? Did we find out how much gold?
Matt: We're about to find out.
Laura: Well, okay, I'm definitely doing that while they're working on the dragon.
Taliesin: We'll work on the scales.
Matt: As you guys are working on the scales--
Marisha: I want to work most of-- I want to take as much as I can--
Matt: Of the scales? Okay, that's fine. Hide, dragonhide, we'll say. Scales themselves are just little pieces, used more for alchemical elements, can be removed from hide later, so we'll call it hide. So I want you to go ahead and make an investigation check, Laura.
Laura: Oh man! Come on 20!
Liam: Also, I believe I was first to the pile. I was looking for what weapons there are and I also want to watch her, very closely, with everything she does.
Laura: Does this have to do with dragons? Is it an investigation about dragons?
Matt: Uh, no, this is more to do with the gold--
Laura: What about because I'm in a mountain and it's my favored terrain?
Matt: Your favored terrain, ironically, is not gold, it is mountains. However, when you level up as a ranger, if you choose to, your next favored terrain should be gold. Just as a character choice--
Laura: I'm just checking for-- I wanna be sure I'm rolling what I'm supposed to--
Liam: (singing) Ducktales! Woo-ooo!
Laura: 13 is all that I rolled, though.
Liam: With a swimming speed of 40 in gold.
Matt: It is quite a lot of gold. As you start counting up a section of it, and you being a very, very discerning eye, you're looking upwards of around 78,000 gold pieces.
Laura: Oh, but some of this is Westruun's.
Matt: A lot of this is Westruun's.
Ashley: Is it, though?
Laura: It is, it is, it is. You know what, I'm going to keep it-- I'm keeping it in a separate stock, because I don't want to take money away from Westruun--
Matt: Just so you're aware, that's 1,570 pounds of gold. You can't carry all that.
Ashley: If we separated it?
Laura: Well, we're going to put a marker in it and let Westruun know that this is their gold and then we'll send them up--
Travis: Oh that's fair! Then they can come back up and get it.
Laura: Yeah, they can, 'cause how else are we going to get it to them? I'm just going to take a little bit of it.
Matt: How much you taking?
Sam: 20%.
Travis: 15,000.
Laura: What we put in is still down on the ground.
Marisha: How much did we put in?
Liam: Ten.
Laura: I think we should take 10,000.
Travis: Higher! Higher!
Laura: But it's Westruun's money!
Ashley: We can let the people decide?
Sam: And we have spent a lot of our hard-earned cash saving this for them.
Taliesin: I'm going to need a little bit of that money to fix my gun, too, which is very broken.
Laura: How much do you need, Percy?
Taliesin: I don't know how broken it is.
Sam: Our Heroes' Feasts are 1,000 bucks each--
Marisha: About how much is 500 pounds worth of gold? Maybe that's a better question?
Matt: Well 50 gold pieces is one pound, so that's about 100 pounds. 5,000 you said? 500? 500 would be, you know, ten pounds.
Taliesin: We need some platinum.
Laura: Oh, is there platinum in there? We're so greedy!
Matt: It's mostly gold. Platinum is not too heavily traded, it's usually more-- there aren't a lot of people in the general town and cityscapes of Westruun, these areas of the country, that carry large volumes of platinum. They're more like inter-country large purchases that are made. Most of this has just been gathered from people's homes, from personal stashes and mercantile store houses, so most of it here is gold.
Marisha: How much did you say was the total again?
Matt: About 78,000.
Sam: I feel like we should take 15 to 20.
Marisha: So 20% would be 15,000.
Liam: 15's fair.
Laura: Is it?
Liam: We put in a lot of work. If you wanna do more, you can tell the children of Westruun, personally--
Laura: No, I don't want to put-- I don't want to put more, I want to take less, honestly.
Sam: Why do you hate children, Vex?
Taliesin: They're very dirty, they smell terrible and--
Ashley: Is it a terrible idea to let the people decide? 'Cause maybe they would give us more?
Sam: The people, how? Hold a vote? Do you want this money or do you want us to have it?
Ashley: (sighs) I don't know, because maybe some of it may not all be theirs.
Sam: Could you pray on it and ask what Sarenrae would do?
Ashley: I'm not going to pray over this money!
Taliesin: I think if we ask them, they're just going to argue amongst themselves.
Sam: Like us?
Marisha: Yeah, I agree. We would ask an entire town to come to a decision.
Matt: That's 300 pounds worth of gold. If you were to put that within the Bag of Holding, that's the most you could carry.
Travis: That's all right.
Matt: Your Bag of Holding, I'll say at this point, would be full.
Travis: Maxed out? I could do that, plus I could make myself really big for a little bit, too.
Laura: All right, but that's all we're taking.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: These people are in need. It's very hard to say, but I don't want people being homeless and we're walking around with a bunch of gold that's--
Taliesin: Beyond homeless, they're going to probably have to run, so any money we give them will be money they will use to get out of town. To go somewhere else.
Marisha: Are we sure there's people capable in town to bring back all this money? That we trust?
Sam: Sure, if they had enough people and enough wagons. But, however, if we leave all this gold just sitting here, won't brigands come and rob it and pilfer it?
Laura: Probably. But what are we going to do?
Sam: We can hide it in some stone shit. Can't you make some stone shit, to hide it? Some sort of--
Laura: Oh, yeah, like a wall or something?
Sam: I don't know, like a fake stone wall that they could walk through? I don't know!
Laura: That only lasts for a while.
Marisha: I can Stone Shape like a little. No, Stone Shape's permanent?
Matt: Yeah, it's instant. You just (impact).
Marisha: Okay, Okay. Stone Shape's permanent, so I could Stone Shape a little cubby and put a little symbol over it so we know--
Laura: Okay. But hide it well. I'll hide the hole so that we tell them where it is.
Matt: Okay, so as you begin moving and trudging through the gold, as you start moving it into that pile, you also discover 25 pounds' worth of precious gems, most of them cut, some of which are also rough.
Sam: Do any of them have identifying marks, like wedding rings, or--?
Matt: I mean, there are a number of gems that look like they're part of necklaces or rings, yes.
Laura: I wonder why he's asking.
Matt: There are a number of gem-encrusted rings that would be very, very beautiful wedding rings if they were utilized, yes.
Sam: Any particularly small ones? (laughter)
Matt: There are a number that could fit smaller folked fingers
Sam: I'll take a sapphire.
Matt: Okay, that's about a 400 gold worth sapphire ring.
Liam: "Oh! This one's nice!"
Matt: So note the 25 pounds' worth of gems. You could attempt to ascertain their worth later. You don't have the materials, nor the actual personal knowledge to figure out exactly how much those gems are worth at the moment. You do also find a bunch of art and fine decor, brass and gold statues that were pulled out of homes, some art pieces, silverware--
Sam: Can I do some sort of arcana check on some of the stuff? Have we done that already?
Marisha: We have the Hunk of Quall. I'll go ahead and, here, I hand Scanlan the Hunk of Quall
Liam: Isn't Quall's Hunk just for Quall's stuff? Or is it for everything?
Sam: It just finds magical things, right?
Liam: I thought it was just for his special stuff.
Marisha: It finds things with magical essences.
Travis: Scanlan, she's metaphorically handing you the Quall.
Marisha: Here, do you want the Hunk of Quall? Do you want to hang onto it?
Sam: Sure, I'll Quall it.
Matt: Okay, make an arcana check.
Sam: Ooh! 20.
Matt: It sparks for a second, then goes dark again. Looking at it, it seems like whatever it was designed to find, it has found and expended most of its temporary enchantment.
Laura: Lame.
Marisha: Boo.
Sam: So it doesn't do anything. So then I'll scan through the stuff, looking for magical dope items--
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Are there any pretty paintings that grab our attention?
Matt: There are some very pretty paintings.
Travis: We're not taking any paintings.
Laura: I could roll it up, Grog, it's not your call!
Travis: They're very heavy.
Sam: I got a 14, anyone want to help me look for magical scheisse?
Ashley: I'll help, I'll help you look!
Matt: So the armored gnome, Pike, leaps onto the pile of gold coins and eagerly sifts through with her giant ogre-ish hands. (laughter)
Ashley: I just rolled a one. (laughter)
Ashley: There's nothing magical here, at all!
Sam: Keyleth, you wanna help?
Marisha: Huh?
Sam: Just look for magical shit.
Marisha: I'm covered in-- I mean, I can--
Sam: Grog? Grog, look for magic.
Travis: Uh, I rolled a 16.
Sam: (laughs) That's better than us! (laughter)
Travis: Hold on!
Matt: His large size allows him to push through large swaths of the pile of coins. You do pull through what appears to be a very, very fine ceramic jug that has runes carved along the sides, and it rightfully should have broken under the weight of most of the metal that had been placed upon it or shifted around.
Travis: It's almost all broken anyway.
All: No!
Sam: Do any of us recognise the type of runes--
Liam: That really seems right up your alley, buddy, but I think--
Ashley: Can I try reading the runes?
Matt: You may. Go ahead and make an arcana check. Actually, yeah, this would be arcana.
Ashley: Just, arcana check?
Laura: Come on!
Ashley: 16?
Matt: 16? It's not a specific language, they're all basic magical runes that are used in transmutation magic. You're not too familiar with anything in this realm, but transmutation is the most you can get out of it.
Marisha: Hang on, wait, Grog! Grog, come here.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: I cast Create Water and I fill the jug with water.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: It explodes.
Travis: If I die because of this... (laughter)
Travis: (explosion)
Matt: What's interesting is, as you take the jug from him, it's empty but you still hear sloshing, even though it's empty as you hold it before you. You put water into it. It swishes around.
Travis: Can I tip it upside down?
Matt: Yep, you tip it upside down, and the water spills out.
Travis: Anything else?
Matt: Nope.
Travis: Can I shake it? Any more swishing?
Matt: You shake it, you still hear the swishing, yeah.
Travis: Can I put my head in the jug?
Matt: You do. (muffled) It blocks it, quite a bit. Your voice is ringing in your ears.
Travis: Can I shake the jug?
Matt: You still hear, around you (sloshing).
Travis: What is this witchcraft? (laughter)
Marisha: Do you hear the ocean, Grog? Do you hear the ocean?
Travis: (echoes) No, no, no, no.
Liam: Bored, Vax starts tossing gold coins off of Grog's junk while it's on there.
Travis: What! What the hell?
Liam: They're very small.
Travis: Oh. Come on, let me break it! It's obviously broken.
All: No!
Ashley: Can I try taking a sip?
Matt: Sure, what are you-- You just take it?
Ashley: Just seeing if I can just drink anything in there.
Matt: You tip it, nothing comes out of it.
Ashley: Aww. I thought something cool was going to happen.
Laura: If you reach your hand in it, can you touch the bottom of it?
Matt: Yeah, you feel the bottom. It's all dry ceramic.
Taliesin: I'm going to take the jug. I'm going to put some of the dragon blood that's drying out in the jug and swirl it around a little bit.
Matt: It swishes around.
Taliesin: And pour it out.
Matt: It pours onto the ground.
Taliesin: It's just blood?
Matt: It's just blood.
Marisha: I scoop up a little bit of dirt and I put the dirt in the jug.
Matt: You have dirt in the jug
Marisha: Dump it out.
Sam: This is a filthy jug.
Matt: You turn it over and dirt falls across the ground before you. (laughter)
Laura: Oh, what the fuck?
Sam: Oh, I put some semen in it.
Laura: Gross!
Taliesin: No!
Sam: I think that's the magic!
Travis: Literally some sailors that are at sea? Yeah.
Taliesin: A baby comes out. Now this is your responsibility.
Matt: You go to the docks of Emon. No. You'll have to take some time with this to discern what it actually does.
Sam: All right, we'll just hang onto it.
Ashley: What if it's just like a Jug of Holding? Like you could just keep putting stuff in it?
Laura: Yeah, but everything's been pouring out but there's still something in the bottom of it.
Taliesin: Let's take it to an expert, we'll find out later.
Liam: There are smarter people than us.
Matt: You also find amongst this chaos a number of glass shards, and you start discerning that there are a number of empty vials that were shattered and broken across the floor in this area and across the coins. A bunch of empty vials.
Laura: Potions all mixing together?
Matt: A lot of things that were seemingly recently used in the recovery of the large entity. However, there is one unbroken vial that you see that contains a cloudy grey oil that swishes around on the inside; some of it tends to seep through the glass, almost, and then evaporate instantaneously on touching the air.
Laura: Ooh! Who wants this creepy looking shit?
Sam: I'll take it! Can I? Have I seen anything like this before?
Matt: You haven't, actually.
Sam: Dammit. Can I sniff it to get any clues?
Matt: You sniff it and it smells metallic, strangely, as you pull the stopper off. It's not liquid, it's more like a thick oil. It's very viscous and slowly swishes in place as you rotate the glass.
Laura: I bet Gilmore would know what that was.
Sam: I'll hang onto this for now. It might be massage oil.
Laura: What?
Sam: You never know.
Matt: You never know. You do also rummage through. You find another unbroken-- the glass itself is cracked a little bit, but it's still intact-- what appears to be a small brown, silver and gray layered liquid. It's like three different layers that are all sediment and separate from each other, based on how it's been laying there.
Laura: Ahh! Should we put this inside another glass container so if it breaks, it's okay?
Taliesin: Honestly, I think just putting it in the biological--
Laura: The Bag of Colding?
Taliesin: --the Bag of Colding. Might be wise.
Laura: All right. Layered gray-brown potion is what I'm writing.
Matt: It's got layers of brown, silver and grey.
Travis: So mostly grey.
Marisha: It's like a birthday cake shot?
Matt: Kind of. And then as you push the last of the coins in this hole that you've made in the side of the wall to hide it out of the way, you do also find at the very bottom of this what looks like an old book of some kind, like a tome, it's about this big with a heavy thick leather binding around it.
Laura: Can we read it?
Sam: No, this could be the spellbook.
Travis: Oh, yeah! Dres Vina's--
Marisha: Dres Vina's spellbook?
Travis: Abjurist Noja's.
Marisha: Abjurist Noja, that's right.
Sam: Abjurist Noja's. Does it look like a spellbook? Have we seen a spellbook before?
Matt: You look through and as you open it up, the words are scrambled and, as you focus for a second, they seem to reassemble them in Common. And as you read through, the first page has a large title across the top that says: "Tome of Leadership and Influence."
Liam: This is special.
Laura: It is! Who should read it? I want to read it right now!
Sam: Well, only some of us can read, no offense.
Travis: Fuck off. Are there any pictures in the book?
Matt: There are no pictures, it is pure text. Your favorite.
Travis: Completely worthless. It's awful cold--
Laura: If Grog looks at it, does it reassemble itself in stick figures?
Matt: It's interesting. You look at the pages, and the lines don't make sense to you but for some reason you understand the gist of what the content is. It goes beyond the barrier of language and, for a second, it's almost like there are pictures, but the pictures are assembled by a bunch of tiny lines in a row and different shapes that show you what it means!
Travis: See, it's a book about leadership, clearly it wants to communicate something to me--
Ashley: Intelligence--
Travis: Intelligence, right, thank you.
Liam: This is like the Grognak comic book in Fallout, is what this is.
Marisha: See, I was going to say How to Win Friends and Influence People.
Sam: As the unofficial leader of the group--
Laura: Yeah? Really Scanlan?
Sam: --I don't really need the book. So perhaps Percy should look at it.
Taliesin: I was thinking perhaps Keyleth might actually--
Laura: That's true! You do have a people to rule. Both of you do.
Taliesin: Yeah, Keyleth, perhaps, might want to take this book. I am not leading anyone.
Marisha: Thank you, Scanlan. Thank you.
Travis: Keyleth, you wanna trade the book for this stupid vase?
Sam: It's not Secret Santa, we're not trading things. (laughter)
Travis: Fine.
Marisha: I mean, I guess because I happen to be holding the vase at the time, sure. No you can-- you can have it
Travis: I can have the book?!
Marisha: No, you can have the vase.
Ashley: Wait, what's the book? The book is Leadership and what?
Matt: Leadership and Influence. If you guys want to take the evening to kind of look over these items, you could probably discern most of the nature of them.
Sam: Okay, well, let's do that. Let's take a look at them overnight.
Marisha: I'm going to continue eviscerating a dragon.
Matt: You get to the point where you guys, late into the night, have carved away roughly 40 functional pounds of hide before you're exhausted. You're exhausted and there's still plenty of hide to pull off of, but it would take you a week and you can notice the more you go, the scent is changing. It's almost like the acidic contents of the body are beginning to accelerate decomposition. It is actually, essentially, now that the body is no longer living, the acidic bile that it usually utilizes as a weapon is slowly consuming its remains.
Taliesin: I'm perfectly content with 40.
Marisha: Yeah, we can make a decent amount of armor with 40 pounds--
Matt: So whoever wants to carry that, because it's got to be carried, because the Bag of Holding is full.
Travis: I'll take it.
Ashley: I can carry some. I'm strong.
Laura: How much does the biological bag hold?
Matt: The biological bag holds 100 pounds.
Laura: I could put some in there. I don't have very much in here. It's all light.
Matt: Okay, so there you go.
Marisha: Yeah. Cool, cool, cool.
Laura: So 40 pounds? I'll mark that down.
Matt: So 40 pounds of black dragon hide.
Travis: You're carrying around 100 pounds of shit?
Laura: It's magic, it's weightless.
Matt: The Bag of Colding. The bag itself weighs five pounds to her, but can contain 100 pounds. So, as you guys work through the evening, who's looking over which items? Who's looking over the book?
Sam: I'm looking over the book.
Travis: Will you stand up there and get me the vase?
Matt: There is the vase for Grog--
Laura: Was there other things to look at? I'll look at the vial that I have, the layered one.
Travis: Gimme. Gimme!
Taliesin: I'm going to sit and try and get my gun working again--
Liam: They're no good for me, but I think last week you said something about spears or javelins or something?
Matt: There are various basic weapons in there, but nothing that comes across as anything beyond well-crafted weaponry that was gathered.
Liam: There any shortswords in the pile?
Matt: There are a couple. A lot of them have been dinged up and wrecked but there are two regular shortswords that seem to be functional and not damaged too heavily.
Liam: I'm going to scoop them up
Matt: Okay. So two shortswords.
Taliesin: I don't know how I even feel about that.
Matt: So, Percy? The level of broken that Bad News is would require a workshop of some kind. Even just basic blacksmithing tools--
Taliesin: I was going to use the workshop that's in the house.
Matt: Okay, if you guys want to go and rest in the house, then that's doable.
Sam: Yes, I'm doing the house.
Matt: Okay, all of you hop into Scanlan's Mordenkainen's Magnificent Mansion.
Liam: Yeah! Chicken!
Matt: Get yourself a delightful chicken dinner.
Sam: I know what that spell is, you just pass through walls like a ghost.
Marisha: Through walls and stuff, yeah. So what's that deal?
Sam: This is +2 to charisma, permanently.
Travis: This is fucking brilliant.
Laura: Does anybody need-- Who's shit at climbing?
Sam: Pike?
Ashley: Hey! (laughter)
Ashley: Wait a minute! Am I shit at climbing?
Matt: No, your strength's pretty high. You can rock climb.
Ashley: I'm strong!
Laura: Oh, it's based on strength?
Matt: Climbing is, yeah.
Laura: Oh, we're shit at climbing!
Liam: I'm okay.
Laura: I'm shit.
Liam: Oh, hey, by the way. Take your fucking shoes off and give them back to me.
Laura: Oh what, these fabulous shoes that fit me perfectly?
Liam: Yeah, give them to me or I'll just take them while you're sleeping, easily.
Laura: You think you could do that, like I wouldn't notice you sneaking up?
Liam: So fucking easily.
Laura: I don't believe it!
Liam: Keep your boots, then. See if they're there in the morning.
Laura: All right.
Matt: (laughs) As you all find yourselves to rest within the confines, the comfortable confines, of Scanlan's mansion, Percy, I want you to go ahead and make a tinkering check.
Taliesin: That's tinkering is plus four, plus proficiency bonus, plus a d20, if I recall?
Matt: It's proficiency bonus, plus your dex for the purposes of fixing this.
Taliesin: Okay, that's even better. That'll do. 20.
Matt: 20, okay. It takes you most of the evening. You'll rest up but we'll say for the purposes of this you've only regained two hit dice for the evening's rest, of your spent hit dice.
Taliesin: Okay. So I'm just down two hit dice?
Matt: Yeah. Any that you've used, if you used any, you don't recover any but two. Normally you'd recover half of your unused hit dice right now. The gun is fixed, the materials that you were required to use will cost you half as much as the actual weapon is worth.
Taliesin: Lord almighty.
Matt: Which, let me look at my list here for that-- It's going to come to roughly 400 gold in materials to repair.
Taliesin: I thought it was a more expensive gun than that, I feel a little better. Oh, that's right, it's the cheap gun of the two.
Laura: What about the Bad News? You broke that one too, didn't you?
Taliesin: That was Bad News. The other gun was working. I broke it but it was just jammed. Bad News was like (creaking).
Matt: All right, so the evening's rest goes relatively uneventful.
Sam: I've commanded ten of my invisible guards to protect Vex's feet. (laughter)
Matt: Okay! Vax?
Liam: So in the middle of the night, I'd like to swing by the kitchen--
Laura: I'm sleeping with them tucked up under me. I'm going to sleep like, you know how little kids sleep with their butts in the air and their feet are tucked under them? That's how I'm-- yeah.
Matt: (laughs) Okay!
Liam: Okay. I go by the kitchen and I get a mug of water and some spices. Just some various, simple stuff-- I'd like to sneak into my sister's room. I'd like to check the door for traps.
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check!
Liam: It's not very high. Oh, no, yes it is. It's a 20.
Matt: All right, it does not appear to be trapped, however it is locked.
Liam: Okay, I'd like to pick that lock.
Laura: Do I notice this happening?
Liam: 30. You're sleeping.
Laura: Yeah, but I have a really good passive perception, bitch!
Liam: All right, 30 on the trap.
Matt: Right, on the lock you mean--
Liam: On the lock, yeah-- I'd like to sneak in.
Matt: Ever so quiet, you make it into the room. Pull the door close to closed, but not entirely. You look up in what little bit of low firelight is coming from a distant fireplace in the far corner that's down to very, very simple embers, you see drifting in a semi-circle around the bed, ten spiritual servants, all arms crossed, just staring right at you--
Liam: Protecting her feet, right? That was the command.
Sam: Protect her feet. That was the command.
Liam: I walk in. They're not on her feet. I want nothing to do with her feet, guys, I just want those shoes that she's hugging.
Laura: No, I have the shoes on my feet--
Liam: You said you were hugging them up here like this.
Laura: No, no, no. I said I'm sleeping with my feet tucked up under me.
Liam: Like how? Like Cirque du Soleil?
Laura: Like child's pose, Like child's pose! Yoga, bitch! You know what I'm talking about--
Liam: With your feet here?
Laura: No! Like this.
Liam: That's what you said!
Laura: Here I'll show you. Sorry, guys, you don't get to see-- But it's like this, Liam--
Sam: Oh, that's so vulgar!
Laura: No, it's not! (laughter)
Liam: Okay, guys, this is a little bit of family trouble, just give me a minute. And I leap on top of her, I take the cup of water and I splash it in her face and I throw flour on her face like that!
Laura: What?! What the fuck?!
Liam: Give me my boots! Give me my boots! You give me my damn boots! (laughter)
Matt: You are immediately pulled off of the bed, slammed onto the ground on the floor--
Liam: I don't get to roll?!
Matt: --as all the spirits hold you down. No.
Liam: No dexterity, no nothing?!
Matt: No, because the moment that you go ahead and splash the water and go towards her, they're on top of you, this isn't about dodging--
Liam: I left her feet alone!
Laura: Wait, wait, wait. What's happening? Don't attack him! Don't attack him!
Matt: Right. It was less of you trying to avoid and more to see if they could grab you.
Liam: Yeah, okay. (laughter)
Matt: So you're vaulted off and slammed onto the ground and they're just holding you there. Not attacking you, they're just holding you--
Liam: Give me my boots, you greedy shitbird.
Laura: What? You think I was really going to keep them?
Liam: I want them now. I don't trust you as far as I can throw you. I want you to-- just keep holding me up, guys. I want you to put them on my feet now.
Laura: But they look so good on me. And your feet are so smelly! Are you-- are you mad?
Liam: I gave up my life for you. I will have my shoes. Please.
Laura: All right.
Matt: One of the servants begins slowly going towards your foot and (sniffs). (laughter)
Laura: They're smelly, they're really smelly. See?
Liam: We should cap 'em, right boys?
Laura: What if--?
Sam: You think any of my servants are boys? (laughter)
Liam: I assume they have both sets of parts, actually--
Sam: That's true, that's true. (laughter)
Laura: I suppose I could part with them.
Liam: Waiting.
Laura: Wait, wait, wait. Ahh! I'm not putting them on your feet.
Liam: Sure you are.
Laura: No, I am not! But before I do, I want payment, for these boots. What's going on with you and Keyleth? (laughter)
Laura: Right here. I'll give you these boots if you tell me.
Liam: I could rescind my deal with an all-powerful deity and let you fall to the ground or you could hear about my personals. What's your choice?
Laura: What?
Liam: Give me my fucking boots!
Laura: You love her? You love her so much. Take one, right here. You could put it on, cover up at least one foul stench in the room.
Liam: No, I can't because they're holding me around the arms--
Matt: Two of the servants take the boot from her and start putting it on your feet. Kind of polish it a little bit.
Laura: Does she feel the same way about you?
Liam: Ask her.
Laura: (gasps) Maybe I will. Fine. Here's your other boot. Servants--
Matt: They take it and they hold you down even still forcefully, grab your other leg and gingerly put the other boot on. Polish it--
Laura: Now go to sleep, we fought a dragon yesterday.
Liam: (laughs) I love you, but you are a terrible person. And I walk out the door.
Matt: (laughs) And you walk away.
Laura: (coughs) I spend 15 minutes getting all the flour off of my bed.
Marisha: I go to Scanlan. Scanlan?
Sam: Oi?
Marisha: Did I hear you had a hot spring, or something like that? Or like a spa here? I feel like you'd have a spa-- Because I am covered in dragon bile.
Sam: Ooh, yes. Well--
Marisha: Not. no, no.
Sam: No?
Marisha: Just, can you point me in the direction of the spa?
Sam: Oh, I'm not coming with you. Don't worry, darling. Yes, it's downstairs in the third basement-- I don't know! (laughter)
Marisha: Thank you!
Matt: You hear a (stone shifting) shift as a third basement is created in the bottom of the mansion--
Sam: Right next to the boiler room!
Matt: Another shake as a boiler room has now apparated right next--
Marisha: Is it a very fantastic bathhouse?
Matt: It's not bad, actually. It's a fine natural hot spring, a comfortable hot tub temperature.
Sam: It's got Russian temperature, Swedish temperature, Finnish temperature--
Marisha: I go over the comms and I say  hey, Vex, Pike, I think I just found the new hangout spot for the ladies--
Ashley: Where are you?
Marisha: I'm in the third basement, come down!
Taliesin: There's a third basement?
Travis: What's in the third basement?
Sam: Yeah, we can all hear you--
Taliesin: Yeah we can all hear you. You can't just pick people, you are aware of that?
Marisha: Oh, I mean. Shit! Uh. This is not Keyleth, this is another transmission you're picking up, it's-- I'll change the channel
Travis: (shouting) Party down in the third basement!
Laura: All right, let's go down.
Travis: We're all going down.
Matt: So, ladies, you all convene in this beautiful hot, air filled with steam. There's a fountain in the corner with some rocks and some nice plants around the area. There's a beautiful giant portrait of Scanlan, nude, sprawled over a rock-- (laughter)
Matt: With a towel just gently placed on his knee. (laughter)
Sam: Not covering anything.
Matt: No, no. It's decorative. As soon as you all sink in this moment, the door opens behind you as Percy and Grog come storming in.
Travis: Shit yeah! CANNONBALL!
Laura: Well, this was peaceful--
Travis: Heh! Look at Scanlan's wiener in that picture. (laughs)
Ashley: I'm going to cannonball in too.
Matt: Pike jumps in--
Taliesin: I'm taking off my glasses and going to go soak in a corner quietly.
Laura: I go find Keyleth.
Matt: All right, so you guys have made your way comfortable into the hot spring. Vex saunters over to you with a look of intention on her face.
Marisha: You look so intent.
Laura: Yes. Do you like the hot springs?
Marisha: I love the hot springs, aren't they fantastic?
Laura: I do too. I sit down next to her. So my brother.
Marisha: (coughs)
Laura: What's going on with you guys? Because I just asked him and he got really awkward. I mean, is it for real? Is it definitely happening? Are you guys "in love?" Getting married? Having babies? Little druid babies?
Marisha: Oh wow, you just said a lot of things in a very short space of time. You know, we just killed a dragon.
Laura: We did.
Marisha: We just killed a dragon.
Laura: I know, I feel so alive!
Marisha: Okay. So that's about as far as I got. I wasn't sure if I was going to, you know, live past that. I wasn't sure if he was going to live past that. I wasn't sure if you were going to live past that. Really, any of us--
Laura: But we did.
Marisha: Yeah we did, we did. Now there's three more. And I have a lot that I still have to do and still have to figure out about myself.
Laura: So do you like him? Do you love him? That's an answer, you can just answer it, it's not a big deal, you just say yes or no--
Marisha: (sighs) I'm afraid what will happen if I say yes.
Laura: Okay, that's not what I asked, though. Don't think about the fear. Think about what you're feeling.
Marisha: Maybe.
Laura: (whispering) I think that's a yes.
Marisha: Will you hate me if I do?
Laura: No.
Marisha: You sure? Because I kind of thought you might for a very long time.
Laura: You know. I thought I might as well, but here's the thing. We've been through a lot. We face death on a very regular basis. (sighs) And I see the way he looks at you, and I see the way you look at him. And happiness is fleeting in this world; we don't know when it will end. Take advantage of it while you can. And stop living in fear.
Marisha: Maybe we're not people who are allowed happiness.
Laura: That's bullshit, Keyleth.
Marisha: And what happens if I lose either of you?
Laura: Well, you go on. You can't think about that!
Marisha: You've been to the other side. What did you see? Anything? Is there an afterlife?
Laura: Well, I wasn't there for very long, but I think there can be. My brother serves Death, Keyleth!
Marisha: And death is a natural thing that happens with or without him.
Laura: This is true!
Marisha: Do you believe in the gods? Do you believe that Vax actually serves Death?
Laura: Yes. Yes I do.
Marisha: What do you think that means for the rest of us?
Laura: I think it means that-- I think it means that what we do has a purpose. Regardless of the outcome, there is a purpose.
Marisha: You don't think we're just destroying everything, everywhere we go?
Laura: No! Are you kidding? We saved an entire town today! More dragons may come, but for the time being, people are safe, and we are safe. If we are successful, we could save this entire fucking world.
Marisha: (laughs) I don't know if I'm cut out to be a hero.
Laura: You already are.
Marisha: (groans) I don't know about that.
Laura: Anyway. Be happy. Go to him. Just live in the moment, don't worry about it right now.
Marisha: Maybe there's another time and another place where we don't have to. But now I feel like we do.
Laura: We're in a mansion right now. Fucking cannonball! And I get up and I cannonball.
Matt: Big splash. Hot water across your face--
Travis: Four and a half!
Laura: All right. I need a higher-- I need a broom!
Matt: Servants come by and fill your goblets that they brought you, with wine, because, drinking in hot tubs, what could possibly go wrong?
Liam: Did you just cannonball away?
Laura: I did.
Liam: We all do it, we all do it.
Ashley: Should we have a cannonball contest?
Marisha: I cast Breathing Underwater on myself and I just sink to the bottom of the pool and I just stay there for a really long time at the bottom of the pool.
Matt: Do you have Water Breathing prepared? Or was this your Alter Self gills?
Marisha: Alter Self! Yeah, totally! Gills. I can do that.
Matt: So the sides of Keyleth's throat just sprout gills suddenly and naturally and she sinks underneath
Travis: (shouting) Keyleth! No! No! And I run over and pick her up off the bottom, which is essentially suffocating her, right?
Matt: Grog pulls you out of the water and shakes you abruptly
Marisha: Wha--! Ow!
Travis: Gills, sorry. And I shove her back in the water. (laughter)
Matt: Back under.
Marisha: And I just let myself sink again (laughter)
Liam: On a side note, I have an earring as well and I heard everyone go down into the hot springs so I went back to the kitchen and got some of that chicken sorbet that they make here.
Matt: It's delicious.
Liam: And I went back to my sister's room and I pulled the blanket down and I just smeared it all along the inside of the bed. And then I bring up the blanket and tuck it in nice. It looks perfect.
Matt: The ten servants watch the whole thing and just nod, well done.
Laura: That's disgusting!
Sam: They had their orders.
Taliesin: You are the worst of us.
Liam: Goodnight boy-girls.
Sam: (husky voice) Goodnight.
Travis: Wait, is Percy in the water?
Matt: Yeah, Percy's in the water with you guys.
Ashley: You got in? No, he went into the corner?
Travis: Did you do a cannonball?
Taliesin: No, I do not cannonball.
Laura: Cannonball, Percy!
Taliesin: I do not cannonball!
Travis: Percy!
Taliesin: I can't wear my glasses, I'm going to hit something and I'm just going to bleed everywhere
Ashley: A cannonball contest?
Sam: You want to do a cannonball contest?
Ashley: Let's do a cannonball contest.
Taliesin: Fine. If there's a dare involved, that's completely different.
Ashley: How much money should we put on it?
Sam: 15,000 gold. (laughter)
Laura: How about five pounds of gems?
Sam: Sure. Do we all have that?
Laura: No, but I have it and I'll put it in the middle.
Sam: All right. Five pounds of gems.
Matt: Five pounds of gems.
Sam: I haven't been here, but I wander in eating some chicken with no pants. (laughter)
Matt: You just got Donald Ducked, guys!
Laura: Scanlan! Oh Scanlan! Your painting! Your painting is not accurate, Scanlan!
Sam: Oh. No, of course not. It's artistic licence. Come on. (laughter)
Taliesin: Did they run out of paint, is that what happened?
Sam: All right, the rules  Everyone gets one jump to be officiated by--? Who? Sarenrae?
Laura: Somebody has to-- by your servants.
Sam: They'll vote for me. (laughter)
Marisha: Wait! What are we doing? We're doing a cannonball contest?
Marisha: Oh, I'll join this. I swim back up to the top to join.
Sam: Can you officiate? Are you going to join or are you in too much of a funk to?
Ashley: Grog can officiate. Be fair.
Travis: I will!
Ashley: But vote for me.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: Who's up first?
Matt: Who's going first?
Sam: Alphabetical order.
Ashley: Keyleth!
Marisha: Oh sure.
Matt: So, Keyleth. You go ahead and swim up, take some time back, rush forward, leap. Make an--
Marisha: We've had a short rest, right?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: Okay. Acrobatics check?
Matt: No, this is an athletics check. This is a jump, leap and--
Marisha: Not bad. 19.
Laura: Oh, that's good.
Matt: She jumps into the air, seemingly weightless--
Marisha: And in midair, I use my bonus action to turn into an earth elemental!
Matt: Turns into an almost literal cannonball, displaces enough water to the point where the actual water level in the hot spring, now, is about two inches lower than it was before--
Taliesin: I'm going upstairs to get a bottle of raw sodium. (laughter)
Taliesin: It's on, motherfucker!
Marisha: I come out. Yeah!
Ashley: That was good, that was good, that was good!
Taliesin: Actually, I send a servant. I tell them what it is.
Marisha: Can we refill the pool after each use? Is it magical enough to where we can refill the pool?
Sam: Sure, there's a trickle--
Ashley: Hey, it's my turn! Do a little stretching.
Matt: Do you have your gauntlets on or not?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: So you're just like--
Ashley: Naked with gauntlets.
Matt: You're not wearing anything?
Ashley: Nope!
Sam: But you can't see her naughty bits because they glow with heavenly light.
Liam: Here come the artists!
Travis: The sound of 10,000 pens hitting paper.
Matt: So this strong, stout, powerful gnomish female form steps out of the water with these large gauntlets with an ogre face across the back. Looms up, gets a good distance, turns around, focuses, leaps. Make an athletics check.
Travis: Squash that! Ooh, snip diggity!
Laura: Oh shit!
Ashley: 23?
Matt: Amazing as your earth elemental form was, it displaced about the size an earth elemental would. Pike's much smaller form managed to displace about as much as an earth elemental would. Water goes flying out, spraying you guys. The water itself takes a while to actually calm down again--
Travis: I actually slip and fall backwards like-- (laughter)
Travis: Whoa!
Ashley: Whoa, that was a big one! (laughter)
Matt: Who's up next?
Laura: Percy.
Taliesin: I'm not done, I'm still working on something.
Ashley: Oh, wait, you should have gone before me. I'm sorry.
Taliesin: I'm working on something, you go next. I've got a pot and some cloth, and a whole thing--
Laura: Oh, I'm the only one that's left?
Sam: No, I'm here too! L, M, N, P, Q, R, S. That's me! Oh boy.
Ashley: Sorry I jumped you, Percy-- He was gone, that's why.
Sam: I'm going to take a flying leap and jump in while cannonballing.
Matt: All right, athletics check.
Sam: Sploosh. That's an 11. (laughter)
Sam: And when I hit the water I set off a level two Thunderwave. (laughter)
Matt: So Scanlan doesn't sprint but gingerly jogs up to the side of the pool, leaps in the air. It sends waves out from each side and drenches all of you waiting on the side again-- (laughter)
Matt: As the water comes rushing back, slapping into you, Scanlan, after the fact but, nevertheless, a very impressive display.
Sam: Why, thank you. Take a bow, take a bow.
Ashley: Good job, good job.
Sam: Thank you, thank you. Percy, are you back yet?
Taliesin: I'm ready.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: I've got a kettle-- (laughter)
Taliesin: And what is essentially a giant cheesecloth teabag of raw sodium in an oil holding base. You are aware of what will happen when I hit the water?
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: Okay, cool. I grab the kettle. I put it to my chest. I take a run, and I leap into--
Marisha: Isn't this is detrimental to your health?!
Taliesin: Yes, this is a terrible idea. Do not do this. Do not do this. You will die. And I take a run and jump head into the--
Marisha: (shouting) Percy, no!
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Taliesin: Not acrobatics? Athletics. 23
Matt: 23, okay. So, as you land and hit the water, there's a momentary pause, a little (sploosh, explosion sound). A secondary explosion that sounds dulled and covered until it hits the air in a loud cacophonous (explosion sound). Water and smoke and pieces of metal go flying as the kettle is destroyed. You, Percy, suffer--
Taliesin: Should have mostly directed down but I'm aware that some--
Matt: Yeah. 23 points of bludgeoning and piercing damage from shrapnel and pieces of metal that have just scattered across your chest but nevertheless, a very impressive display.
Liam: For science!
Ashley: Total Party Kill cannonball!
Travis: I look down and pull out a small piece of the kettle out of my pectoral and toss it away. That was very impressive, all of you. I'm very impressed. It seems that--
Sam: The twins!
Matt: The twins haven't gone.
Travis: Oh, oh! I'm so sorry.
Laura: It's all right, Grog.
Travis: No, no. Get it. Go do it.
Laura: All right. I take my broom.
Liam: Here comes the bellyflop--
Laura: I know, right? I fly 20 feet up. As high as the ceiling. How high is the ceiling?
Sam: Not that high.
Laura: I get to the top of the ceiling.
Matt: Okay, it's about 15, 20 feet up from the water's surface.
Laura: All right. I stand up on the broom.
Matt: Ceiling's right above you. You're having to hunch forward a little bit.
Laura: And right as I cannonball off of the broom, I release Trinket out of the necklace too so (shouting) double cannonball!
Matt: As you leap off, make an athletics check.
Laura: 13!
Matt: Make an athletics check for Trinket.
Laura: Oh, man. I thought that was going to be good. Me and Trinket kind of suck. What is that, strength?
Matt: Strength, yes.
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16. As you hit the water, there's a (double splooshing sound) as a bear is suddenly placed magically into the water beneath you at the same velocity, causing the water itself to splash outward, in a large column, a spray that gently comes down around the sides of the initial splash. Impressive, a very impressive display.
Sam: Impressive. And she didn't really use magic, so that's good. Bonus points there.
Matt: Trinket eventually comes out of the water. (growl, shaking coat sound) Shakes off.
Liam: Is the judging of this up to artistic interpretation, like ice skating?
Sam: That's up to Grog!
Travis: Well done, all around. Really, I'm really quite impressed. However, there was only one--
Ashley: Hang on. He still has to go.
Laura: No, he's not in the room.
Ashley: He's not in the room.
Travis: Yeah, wait. Is Vax going to do it? Is he coming down?
Laura: Is he stealthing right now and he's actually in the room?
Sam: I don't think so.
Liam: (snoring)
Travis: No, there was only one that managed to draw blood with their display. Therefore, Percy is the winner. (applause)
Sam: Well met, well met. Five pounds of gems?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: He needs it!
Matt: He takes it and smiles as the blood slowly runs from one nostril-- (laughter)
Ashley: Oh man!
Taliesin: Now, if you'll excuse me, I need to sleep off this spa. (laughter)
Liam: Those gems are going to turn into lead, aren't they?
Taliesin: Got plans for one of them--
Matt: He takes the gems in one hand, takes the towel, wraps it around as he steps out of the water with the other and makes his way outside of the spa.
Taliesin: Leaving a little trail of blood all the way down the corridor. (laughter)
Sam: Good game, good game.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: Well, I'm going to bed.
Laura: All right, all right.
Matt: All right. You guys go, find your way to your respective rooms, rest for the remainder of the evening. Wake up to the smell of wonderfully cooked chicken wafting through the hallways of the mansion. The only person that has a unique evening's sleeping is Vex, who slides into her comfortable, silk sheet bed to a (sucking sound) to find some sort of now chilled but loosely room-temperature chicken paste--
Laura: That is just disgusting.
Taliesin: Don't you mean, that's fowl? (groaning)
Travis: Oh! Fowl!
Laura: I don't even care. Trinket loves it.
Matt: And Trinket is all over that. Trinket is now just lapping it up from the inside of the bed--
Laura: Yeah. I just go to sleep and I'll take a shower in the morning.
Matt: Okay. All right. You all wake up. Breakfast is at your disposal. You begin to eat comfortably, you wash up, Vex--
Laura: A lot.
Matt: Is there anything else you wish to achieve here or shall we continue with the rest of your journey?
Sam: Well, we just have a few things to divvy up. I've learned about the book that we found from the dragon. It is filled with knowledge that can increase someone's abilities.
Laura: What abilities?
Sam: The abilities that I happen to be very good at would be even better.
Laura: Hmm.
Marisha: I don't want any part of that.
Sam: It's not my sex abilities.
Marisha: Oh, oh. Okay.
Sam: Actually, technically yes. Technically, yes. My sex ability--
Laura: What abilities? (laughs)
Sam: Charismatic abilities.
Laura: Oh?
Ashley: Oh, it just gives you, you have all the charisma?
Sam: Permanently better charisma.
Laura: Well, Keyleth, as you make that awkward-ass face, maybe you should improve your charisma.
Liam: You smell like chicken.
Laura: Yeah, somebody put chicken paste in my bed. I don't know who it could be.
Liam: Yeah, we've got to get out of this mansion.
Laura: Yeah. Weird.
Travis: Well, I also went to my room and I was like "Man, what I could really--" and I was holding the jug, at the time, and I was like, "I'm just going to break it, nobody'll know--"
Sam: Oh shit!
Travis: It'll be great. And I was like, "I could really go for some beer right now," and all of a sudden, the jug was full of shitloads of beer.
Laura: What?!
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Is it a never-ending beer jug?
Travis: Oh no, it's not never-ending. It stopped after a bit. But I got plenty fucking wasted.
Laura: Is it just beer?
Sam: Is it just beer? Or is it any spirit? Or what?
Travis: No, I said "mayonnaise" and it started to make mayonnaise and then it stopped so I think there's a finite amount of stuff it can make in a day. (disconcerted oohs)
Laura: Do you have a jug of mayonnaise now?
Travis: No, I ate that too. (laughter)
Matt: In the wee hours of the morning--
Taliesin: There's chicken!
Liam: That was one of the best exchanges of our entire run!
Ashley: Oh my God.
Taliesin: Wow!
Matt: So--
Laura: Gross!
Ashley: I can't stop laughing.
Liam: Oh my goodness.
Matt: So, what else? (laughter)
Sam: Okay, now you're going to get a bunch of mayonnaise shipped to our PO box. (laughter)
Laura: No mayonnaise!
Liam: Beer. Send beer, is fine.
Marisha: Oh, that one brought tears.
Ashley: Please somebody draw him just sad in his room eating mayonnaise--
Matt: Scooping mayonnaise out of a jar.
Taliesin: A Grecian urn of mayonnaise.
Ashley: Oh, my tears.
Matt: Saddest Winnie the Pooh ever--
Sam: I also found out that that one of the vials is a potion vial. It can temporarily give the drinker a spell of Etherealness. Which is like you temporarily turn into Casper the Friendly Ghost. You can pass through walls.
Laura: Oh cool!
Sam: Anyone who drinks it.
Marisha: Vax?
Laura: Oh, that would be good for you.
Matt: Well, less drinking. More like applying.
Sam: Oh, it's rubbing?
Matt: Yeah, it's an oil.
Laura: Oh, don't drink it.
Matt: I would not recommend drinking it.
Sam: I can rub it on your back for you.
Marisha: Yeah, you have to rub it on you.
Liam: I'm all right with that. (laughter)
Taliesin: You'd need to use a stepping stool to do it, but you could.
Laura: The other one was a Potion of Climbing, which we decided--
Marisha: Does Pike want it? Oh, you?
Sam: No, it's Vex.
Laura: I suck at it, but anybody else can have it.
Travis: Don't you have a broom? You ain't going to be climbing much.
Laura: That's true! I don't need it. I have a broom!
Taliesin: Actually, I might take it. High ground is occasionally very useful for me.
Laura: I've got a broom that flies.
Taliesin: And I'm not that strong.
Marisha: What was the name of that tome again, Scanlan?
Sam: Tome of Leadership and Influence. I'm torn, Keyleth. You have some charisma issues, shall we say?
Marisha: Uh-huh. No, keep telling me about myself, Scanlan, today.
Sam: Well, I'm just saying that I am quite self-confident, sure of myself. Some would say charming.
Laura: Some. Not most.
Sam: And this book would make me unstoppably so--
Marisha: Sure.
Sam: So, I don't know, we could roshambo for it? What does the group think?
Liam: I think Keyleth should read it. She's trying to lead her people.
Travis: Yeah. Roshambo for it.
Marisha: I don't want to-- what? I don't like wanting things. I don't care, you--
Laura: Who has-- This is-- who has charisma-based spells?
Sam: Me?
Matt: You.
Liam: That's a big fat pause, is what that is.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Why don't we think on it?
Marisha: All right, we'll think on it.
Taliesin: To be fair, it takes days.
Sam: It takes six days of reading to take effect.
Laura: Oh shit. So if you read for two days and then pass it off to someone else, does it just restart?
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: It's once a century it works.
Travis: Oh shit! Once a century?
Taliesin: I have a similar book, that I used--
Laura: What did you use it on?
Sam: Yeah, you live for many centuries, Keyleth. You can have it nexties! (laughter)
Taliesin: That's actually a very fair point.
Travis: That's kind of perfect.
Taliesin: I was about to say, would you like a Manual of Quickness? Here, for you-- (laughter)
Marisha: Oh, for the next century?
Taliesin: So 99 years from now--
Marisha: Sure, I'll hold onto it for that long.
Travis: When we're all cold and dead!
Taliesin: I was holding onto it in the hopes of finding somebody long-lived to sell it to.
Sam: Speaking of old, are some of us older than we used to be?
Travis: Yeah!
Marisha: Are we still old? It would have worn off, right?
Matt: I would say, for the purposes of the travel, because you guys had a few days' travel from the actual Sphinx's lair, towards Westruun when you were travellng back, you had the opportunity to use Greater Restoration to get rid of it.
Marisha: Between Pike and I--
Matt: Yeah, in that time.
Sam: What if we don't want to be any younger?
Matt: Then you could have said no and kept it as you go. If you wanted to take in your nice salt and pepper--
Laura: How old are you now, Scanlan, if you keep it?
Sam: I don't know.
Ashley: That salt and pepper hair?
Sam: A girl never tells her age.
Matt: Would you want to maintain your little creeping Reed Richards going on at the sides there?
Sam: No, I'll get young again.
Matt: Slightly.
Sam: Slightly.
Marisha: He said, begrudgingly.
Matt: I know.
Liam: Set that dial back to 39.
Matt: All right then. Anything else?
Marisha: What were you going to say, Percy?
Taliesin: I was thinking, perhaps, you're not necessarily the person to magically augment your path.
Marisha: That's kind of my hesitance about it, I guess.
Taliesin: I had meditated upon the idea for a minute.
Marisha: I'm honestly kind of afraid of what kind of leadership things and influence it could possibly tell me. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
Taliesin: (laughs)
Sam: I do!
Marisha: You can read it, Scanlan.
Sam: Yes! (laughter)
Taliesin: At the very least, it'll keep him busy for four or five days.
Marisha: That's true.
Ashley: That's true. That's true.
Taliesin: Because you have to read for 48 hours--
Laura: What if he gets even more charismatic and then he proposes again? And he charms you more?
Ashley: Well, if he's so charming, I just wouldn't be able to help it.
Laura: It's possible.
Marisha: I know, that's my-- actually, my only other regret is do we want to turn Scanlan into a charm nuclear weapon? Because that's what we'll be doing.
Laura: I kind of do want to do that. He is super good at talking to people.
Marisha: He is.
Taliesin: And I think there's enough of us that we could all keep each other in check, from--
Liam: Between Grog and Scanlan, we can solve any problem, I think, so beef him up, so to speak.
Marisha: Tell me what kind of leadership things-- who wrote that, Scanlan?
Sam: Lao Tsu.
Marisha: Tell me what kind of leadership skills Lao Tsu wants to bestow upon you. If there's any good ones, pass them along.
Sam: All right, I'll give you some tips.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: (laughs) All right. You guys finish your breakfast, make your way outside of the mansion, back into the dragon's den. Is there anything else you wish to do before you leave? As you can only take the amount of gold that you retrieved, and the items you could farm, the rest will have to be left behind, hopefully to be retrieved at some point down the line by either the remnants of Westruun or yourselves.
Liam: I'll just say that I've attuned to all my old shit while everyone was swimming.
Matt: Okay. Cool.
Laura: Yeah, yeah. I carved a pretty little heart on the side of one of the boots just to make it extra girly.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: I would just think that meant you love me.
Laura: Maybe I do.
Liam: Uh, that is a 39.
Laura: (laughs) What?!
Liam: 17 plus perception is-- did I get it wrong? Am I too tired? I've had a long day, people. Let's say 29.
Matt: Did you take perception as one of your--
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Oh, then yeah. Okay. You take the boots and you put them on and immediately, there's a heart there. And you're like (pained) hmm. That probably means she loves me.
Liam: No, I like it. It's fine!
Matt: Yeah. At first you're like, sh-- oh no, it's cool.
Liam: I don't know what you're thinking. It's beautiful.
Matt: All right, you guys are back in the dragon's lair. Is there anything else you wish to do?
Taliesin: We're going to make sure we walk around the trap that is still active in the front--
Travis: Right.
Matt: Make your way back through the tunnel that you had carved before--
Liam: Have to avoid that old magic.
Travis: Is there any lasting damage from the acid burns?
Matt: Thankfully, through magic healing and other means there was no scarring. The tattoos and beard that were partially destroyed--
Travis: I was going to ask  beard?
Matt: Yeah, the beard's a little bit reduced from the sheer volume of acid that was thrown at your face but since healing magic was applied shortly thereafter, the little bit of the beard that began to singe, it stopped that process. So you still have some facial hair, just may have to grow back to its full majesty--
Travis: I may need a haircut in a day or two.
Taliesin: Ooh. Can you Stone Shape something for me? I would like to have Keyleth Stone Shape and use one dragon scale, if you would be so kind. Or, actually, one tooth if that would be all right.
Marisha: Sure. Tooth me.
Taliesin: I would like to leave the "VM" seal on the side of the cavern.
Laura: (gasps)
Taliesin: And just written in-- what would a dragon understand?
Matt: Draconic.
Taliesin: Draconic?
Liam: We have somebody who can do that--
Taliesin: "One down" and let's embed the tooth into the rock.
Sam: Ooh.
Travis: Yes! I like it.
Taliesin: We might as well.
Laura: I like it. I like it.
Marisha: So I do the Vox Machina crest.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And then "one down." Who speaks Draconic?
Matt: All right, so you get with her. You scribble onto the ground what that phrase would look like. You go ahead and copy that and you embed it permanently and immediately into the side of the stone.
Liam: And I said, bitch!
Matt: All righty. You guys make your way down Gatshadow, through the Bramblewood Forest to Westruun itself. As you hit the base of the mountain, start getting towards the edge of the forest, you see a pillar of smoke rising up from that direction--
Marisha: From Westruun?
Matt: A relatively thick pillar of smoke, a few actually.
Laura: Oh no!
Marisha: Wait. What?
Sam: Uh-oh. They've already attacked.
Travis: No, we go fast. We go.
Matt: All right. You guys rush through the remainder of the Bramblewood, come out into the field and are met by what looks like a series of fires that are out in the open field, north of Westruun, not within the actual city. You see these are pyres. The dead of the Umbrasyl battle have been set aflame, being given off the proper heroes' sending. It is a standard after-battle remembrance of those who fell for the herd. You see standing amongst them the twelve surviving members of the battle, many of them pretty badly scarred from the encounter but alive, nonetheless. Bandaged and kind of taking a moment of silence. You do see of that group, as well, Zanror and Worra are there. They haven't noticed you yet. And standing behind them all, one large aimless stone golem with a big chain hanging out of its chest, just standing there.
Marisha: Fassbender!
Sam: Who controls him?
Liam: No one at the moment.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Oh, you took it off?
Liam: I took it off.
Marisha: But you have the circlet still.
Liam: Of course I have the circlet, yeah, but--
Taliesin: I'll take it if no one else does.
Liam: Sure.
Travis: Can I find my way to Zanror? Is his-- is she his wife? His woman--
Matt: His mate, Worra. Yeah, they're both next to each other and as you get closer you notice most of them have gathered their belongings. They have travel packs. They have taken sacks and whatever they could to bring whatever belonged to them and it looks like they are getting ready to move. You see Shale a bit behind them, as well, who has also taken some small supplies with her one good arm and putting it over her shoulder and tying it to her armor before she grabs her staff again. So you walk over to Zanror and Worra. Zanror looks over to you as you approach, his arm still around Worra's shoulder. "It's good to see you survived, Grog."
Travis: Yeah. Did more than that, actually. Found our way up to the cave where Umbrasyl was. Left him in pieces.
Matt: "As Shale told us. 'The Bearded King,' she said."
Travis: (laughs) A word of advice. If, as you're finding your way out of town, you were to stop by a certain cave, there might be some things for you to pick up.
Laura: Gro--
Liam: I take my sister, put my hand over her mouth, and I drag her back about 30 feet.
Matt: He gives you a look, and looks to Worra, looks to her belly--
Laura: (whispers) That's for the people of Westruun!
Matt: --and goes, "Appreciate that. We'll take what we can."
Travis: Your little one. You take care of him. Her. It.
Matt: "I will."
Travis: All right.
Matt: "Do you want to come with us? We know we cast you out once, but we're not like that anymore. The herd's dead. We go to find prosperity with the Rivermaw. A people we wronged and we're probably going to spend some time making it up to them, for my father's infractions. You're one of us now, and we'd be honored to have you."
Travis: I'm honored. Truly I am. But I lost a family, all those years ago. And while I will always think fondly of you, I have a new family now, and I must stay and guard them with my life.
Matt: "I understand. Well. I'm not very good at these parting pleasantries." He puts his arm out.
Matt: (crashing sound)
Travis: (crashing sound)
Sam: Stereo.
Travis: Come on, it blew your hair back when it happened.
Matt: Yeah, a little bit, little bit.
Travis: Magnavox, like (squeal sound)!
Matt: "You be safe. You find your way, head north of the Silvercut. You're always welcome in our tents."
Travis: I'll keep that in mind. Travel safely.
Matt: He goes ahead and takes up his bags. Shale takes up her staff, comes up to you, and: "We'll see each other again, Grog. Of this I'm sure."
Travis: Yeah. Hm, totally sure, heh. You look out for that other eye now. Don't lose the other, because then you'll just be like (scared noise) in the dark.
Matt: As you're doing that she smacks you on the nose with the staff. "I'll be fine." And she walks away with a smile on her weathered, crooked face. Zanror yells out, "Come! We move west." Everyone turns their heads and gather their things and they walk by. As all the soldiers walk by, those wounded and not, to each of you they bow their heads in respect. And you swear you hear a couple of murmured "thank you" as they all solemnly make their way out west, away from Westruun.
Liam: Is it just the remainder of the herd?
Matt: Mm-hmm.
Liam: Herd leader! We trust you will leave something in that cave for the people of this town. Something to help them recover.
Matt: Zanror turns to you, and says, "There's very little in our lifestyle that really has use of this coin, just enough to make it from place to place if need be. Besides, occasionally we need supplies, something to trade with. I'm not like my father. This I've learned in recent months."
Liam: Prosperity on your family.
Matt: "Hm." Looks to Grog. "Your family as well." Turns around and continues to walk.
Laura: You're lucky he's nice, Grog.
Travis: What, what?
Laura: Offering all the gold to the herd instead of the people of Westruun.
Travis: I didn't offer all of it. I said there was something to pick up. He might have grabbed a bunch of mud, what are you so upset about?
Liam: He meant well.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: As you guys make your way-- uh, where are you heading?
Sam: Into Westruun?
Travis: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Marisha: Is the gold pile trap still there?
Matt: It is, yes.
Taliesin: It's sprung. We have to pick it up.
Laura: Is our gold still there?
Matt: Your gold is not there. (groaning)
Laura: It's a good thing I only put a little bit in.
Liam: I'm going to go take like five minutes. I'm going to kneel down and sort of meditate in front of one of the pyres.
Matt: Okay. (laughing) But what you do notice, ironically, while the gold is still there, it's scattered about. Because there's been an explosion where the gold was left behind.
Laura: (gasps) Oh shit.
Ashley: Oops. (laughter)
Ashley: My bad. I made a bomb!
Matt: Nearby, there is a groove in the dirt that is dragged on for about four, five hundred feet, before there appears to be a body at the edge.
Liam: Dead dwarf?
Marisha: It's a dwarf?
Matt: No, it's not. It's the gentleman who disappeared as you let him out of prison. (shouting)
Travis: That son of a bitch! That thieving bastard?
Laura: He deserves it!
Marisha: The fucking asshole that peaced out!
Travis: Blackfoot-- what was his name?
Matt: Oran Blackfoot.
Laura: I knew he was going to go for the gold. That's what he thought he was going to do.
Matt: As soon as you guys left, he seized the opportunity. (laughter)
Travis: Good kill. Good kill.
Ashley: All right, all right, all right.
Liam: I'm taking a moment to pay my respects to the dead.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I do the same.
Taliesin: I'm attuning Fassbender. And working on getting the chain removed from him.
Marisha: Keyleth takes a minute to Druidcraft some wildflowers around the pyre.
Matt: Okay. As you guys are taking this break, Vex, you notice a small group of individuals walking from the town in your direction. Make a perception check.
Laura: I bent my paper. (high voice) 17!
Matt: Okay. You glance over and, best you can make out, some appear to be armored, some appear to be just carrying sacks and goods. There's a cart being dragged behind with two beasts of burden affixed to the front, a set of horses, and at the front of them you see a human male wearing chain mail with a heavy shield to one side, walking up and approaching. He's mid to late 40s, big black- and gray-streaked beard pulled into two points, wild crazy-looking dark hair, also gray streaked. Sun-dappled nose. He walks up with his hand in the air.
Laura: Oi, friend.
Matt: Can we go ahead and have our guest enter?
Laura: Ooh!
Liam: I know that guy! (cheers)
Sam: Sorry for the wait.
Matt: We had to have a hot spring episode.
Marisha: Very important cannonball competition we had to get to.
Patrick rothfuss: I'm sorry that I was laughing loud enough for the mics to pick it up. Some people on Twitter were saying that they heard me laugh.
Matt: That's fine. Patrick Rothfuss, joining us today!
Sam: Fabulous writer. Good person.
Patrick rothfuss: That's not me.
Matt: So, as you're walking up from the city of Westruun, carrying behind you the group of eager-to-leave refugees that have gathered around you, you notice the burning spires, and you see the remnants of the horde leaving westward behind the group of heroes that you all had feared had gone to the top of the mountain to meet their doom. They stand before you alive and resting, and as you approach to hail them, one of them, the half-elf female, hails you.
Laura: Sir, how fares-- (stuttering) How are you doing?
Sam: Charisma!
Laura: Give me the book. Give me the book!
Travis: Amazing. Couldn't have done any better.
Laura: What's happening in the town? Are you leaving?
Patrick rothfuss: How many people are left in town and how many have come with me?
Matt: In town, there's probably a couple hundred that are scattered throughout. Most of them have left, the party has sent them out, but many individuals that they didn't get to have still been holed up in their homes. You have with you right now 20 people, and these are the folks that have congregated around you to figure out a plan of what to do.
Patrick rothfuss: Okay.
Sam: What's with all the questions, narc? (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: I will admit I did not expect to see you folk again.
Laura: Well, we're here.
Patrick rothfuss: What's happened?
Laura: You know that dragon?
Patrick rothfuss: I noticed the dragon.
Laura: Gone. Killed. Destroyed. Vox Machina! (laughter)
Laura: Give me the book.
Sam: Nope.
Patrick rothfuss: I don't know what to say. I was expecting to have to bury some more bodies.
Laura: Thankfully, that is not the case. And you are smart, with leaving town.
Patrick rothfuss: Well, the town itself hasn't decided exactly what to do, how much to rebuild, or whether or not it's even worth it. But now, at least we can make some plans.
Laura: Definitely.
Sam: Oi, what's your name?
Patrick rothfuss: Oh. My name is Kerr.
Sam: Kerr?
Laura: Like Care Bear?
Marisha: Is that with a C or a K?
Patrick rothfuss: (laughs) With a K.
Marisha: Okay. Kerr. I like it.
Sam: And tell us about yourself, if you don't mind.
Patrick rothfuss: I have been here in this town for a while. I settled down after-- I had a bit of an adventurous youth.
Sam: Ooh! I like!
Travis: Yeah, me too.
Patrick rothfuss: How old do these guys look?
Matt: They look younger than you. They look like a bunch of young upstarts, for the most part.
Patrick rothfuss: They're puppies, right?
Matt: They're puppies, but looking close up, you can see weathered experiences in their eyes.
Patrick rothfuss: They came back from the dragon. But still, these are like kids, right?
Matt: From your perspective? Yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah.
Sam: I'm an adult man!
Matt: Who's just roughly past your knee.
Patrick rothfuss: I welcome you back to what is left of the town, and I offer my thanks, and thanks on behalf of those of us that are left.
Laura: Are you responsible for these pyres?
Patrick rothfuss: The town has been pulling together, and we have been doing what we can with what we have.
Marisha: And what's your position been in Westruun?
Patrick rothfuss: Oh, I don't have a position in the city. I'm just the smith.
Laura: You're a blacksmith?
Travis: You make weapons?
Patrick rothfuss: Yes.
Laura: Armor?
Patrick rothfuss: Armor.
Sam: Percy?
Taliesin: Well, I make things. They're not--
Sam: Maybe you guys could collab on a joint project.
Taliesin: Smithing and gadgetry, while I can see how, to the layman, they look very similar, are in fact quite different.
Sam: I actually might have a project for you, if we have a moment.
Marisha: Okay, before we start hitting him up for work.
Taliesin: Is this everybody you could round up to get out of the city?
Patrick rothfuss: Well, this is everyone who was interested in coming out on this particular expedition.
Travis: Oh, yeah! What is your expedition?
Patrick rothfuss: Mostly exploratory. Like I said, we just didn't have any information at all. I didn't know if we were going to be burying more bodies, or dealing with an increasingly angry dragon.
Laura: Well, the dragon in the mountain is dead, but there are increasingly angered dragons in other cities that will probably be coming here to retaliate.
Patrick rothfuss: That will be coming here?
Sam: Possibly.
Laura: More than likely.
Marisha: Probably.
Taliesin: Maybe.
Marisha: We don't know.
Travis: No. No chance. (laughter)
Sam: Actually, this raises an important question. What do the people of Westruun do at this point? Do they rebuild? Do they go underground? Do they leave and abandon the city?
Liam: It's a huge question, yes. What do you think, personally? What is this small group that you're leading? What's your plan?
Patrick rothfuss: I offered to come along with them in case they needed a strong arm. I don't speak for the town. I just know most of the people involved, and I wanted to make sure they stayed safe. But the truth is, there's a lot of people who have nothing to rebuild, and nothing to rebuild it with. And if there might be dragons coming back, I don't know.
Travis: Well, Kerr, Pike and I are both from Westruun. Yeah. Yep.
Ashley: I've seen you before. Do you know Wilhand? My great-great-grandfather?
Laura: Great great?
Ashley: Great-great. Yeah. Two greats, not just one.
Matt: A tiny, hunched over gnomish gentleman, a little absent-minded but friendly enough, keeps to himself.
Laura: Likes to drink.
Patrick rothfuss: Ah!
Ashley: Yes. You probably have had some drinks with him before.
Patrick rothfuss: A little bit. And I haven't met you, but I've heard of you.
Travis: Oh, yeah?
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah!
Travis: What have you heard?
Patrick rothfuss: I heard that you were a good member of the community.
Travis: Yep, that's me.
Sam: Nope. You are incorrect.
Travis: Totally.
Ashley: He was, and is, but we're just never home.
Travis: Grog. Grog is my name.
Liam: Kerr, do you have a sense of how many people are left in the city, roughly?
Patrick rothfuss: Maybe as many as a couple hundred.
Laura: Oh, that's it?
Marisha: That's not a lot.
Patrick rothfuss: A lot of people have been leaving, but some people can't.
Travis: Well, look, I would just like to put this forward. Westruun is their home. It's Pike's home, it's my home. And if you start running, you never really stop.
Sam: But where are they going to stay? I've been down to the sewers, and there's crazy giant creatures down there.
Travis: Well, you can treat it like a weather shelter. If the dragons come, we set up an early warning system. They go underground. But this is their home.
Taliesin: Here's an interesting thing to contemplate about this whole problem, is that we have three dragons still at large. Three dragons who have probably found cities of their own, so the chances that they're going to come back and take time away from their own city to go look at one that's, in theory, already taken over is very thin. And if they are traveling, then they're going to travel to cities that haven't been plundered yet.
Laura: That's true, this one has been plundered.
Taliesin: This is no less or more. There's a risk either way. It's just the risk of running or the risk of staying.
Sam: Also the dragons know that the last dragon who came here died.
Marisha: I think the dragons' motives have probably shifted by now, and where the dragons might not be interested in plundering anymore, instead might be interested in any city that we are in.
Taliesin: Which, I imagine we're leaving soon, anyway.
Liam: Yeah, they might not believe we'd be here, but they also might try to--
Travis: Kerr, are you an honest man?
Patrick rothfuss: I've been called an honest man.
Sam: I insight check him!
Travis: Can I insight check-- Oh yeah, you do that. (laughter)
Matt: You may both make insight checks.
Sam: 19.
Travis: (high voice) Four.
Taliesin: If you whisper to Grog, it's going to make me really happy. Yes!
Sam: He just said, you fart.
Taliesin: Mightily.
Matt: Excuse me for just a minute.
Sam: What was this about Loot Crate?
Travis: Three dollars off if you use lootcrate.com/criticalrole next week!
Marisha: But that's no secret!
Sam: I trust him with my life. I pledge my allegiance to you, sir.
Travis: You just dabbed to him.
Marisha: Scanlan literally hasn't said that to me in the entire three years I've known him.
Sam: What was your name again?
Taliesin: Scanlan just found out that Kerr has a daughter, is what he found out.
Travis: Wow, you pledge your life to him? Jeez.
Marisha: Kerr. You said you were an adventurer several years ago.
Patrick rothfuss: Many years ago. Many years ago. I've lived here-- I've lived here a lifetime at this point.
Marisha: Did you have a party that you traveled with as well?
Patrick rothfuss: I did.
Marisha: Would we happen to know any of them? Allura? Asum?
Patrick rothfuss: No, that was a long time ago, and I'd be very surprised if you'd heard any of the stories from back then. I will say, though, from what I know about dragons, that perhaps vengeance might not be outside a reasonable expectation. There might not be anything here for them to plunder, but--
Marisha: But no one likes having their ass handed to them.
Patrick rothfuss: And these creatures are old and intelligent and powerful, and they stay that way by striking fear into people. And (sighs) as much as I hate to leave my own home, I don't know who will be able to help my people if any other things like this happen.
Marisha: We can't be everywhere at once.
Liam: What about the sewers?
Sam: Well, we were down there, and there was horrible, creepy things.
Liam: We could help with that.
Sam: We could clear out the sewers.
Marisha: But that's not indefinite.
Travis: No, it's not.
Marisha: They'll be back.
Laura: The only other option is--
Taliesin: There's the traveling band, by the river.
Laura: Split the city up? Set them on different paths?
Liam: There's Whitestone.
Taliesin: Whitestone is rapidly becoming a very large target.
Laura: Very quickly becoming noticeable, I think.
Liam: Ever been to Vasselheim?
Patrick rothfuss: Refugees are often very unwelcome, too, and most of the people here did not have much left to lose before they lost it.
Laura: We have claim to the gold that was stolen. It's up in the mountain. It's just hard to get down.
Taliesin: Someone honest is going to have to come and help divvy it up amongst the survivors.
Patrick rothfuss: We can look for an honest person.
Marisha: But if all of the survivors are evacuating the city--
Patrick rothfuss: We could probably-- I know enough people to put together a group of carters to go up there and start fetching stuff down?
Matt: Yeah. And the people that have gathered around you are people that have been around you most of the time you've been in the city, or at least have known you long enough to the point where they themselves are also like-minded, so you can trust most of the folks that have walked with you out towards the pyres.
Patrick rothfuss: I'll say, excuse me for just a minute, and I'll walk off and I'll chat with them a little bit, so you can see that I'm pointing up. I'll do a little talk off with them, so you can talk about me behind my-- Without me.
Sam: I like this guy.
Travis: You do?
Laura: Why do you pledge yourself to him?
Sam: I just feel like he's an honest man. He's a good guy. He's got a nice twinkle in his eye and I recognize that as a sign of honesty, because I have a similar feature.
Laura: You do? I've never noticed a twinkle in your eye.
Sam: Yeah, the light has to hit it just--
Laura: No, it's a crusty from the morning. You might just-- yeah.
Taliesin: How do you get glitter in there?
Travis: That seems like such a shame. I mean, shouldn't we ask the people of Westruun if they want to stay or go?
Sam: Well, there's only 200. We could have a huge meeting and put it to a vote.
Travis: A town hall thing?
Laura: Why not?
Marisha: But he said some people were incapable of leaving. There might be elderly and sick here that can't travel.
Sam: Is there a way to hide the city with magic? We've seen that done before.
Laura: Can we make it look like it's already been burned down?
Taliesin: It has already been burned down.
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: That won't be hard at all.
Laura: Can we hide?
Liam: Can't they have sentries and a shelter in the sewers? They could clear out part of it and have sentries every night, and any time a dragon comes, they just go underground and wait. Wait it out.
Taliesin: I don't think this is a terrible-- I think this is a pretty reasonable idea.
Laura: What do you think, Grog, Pike?
Travis: That's what I said.
Ashley: I feel like it's a good idea.
Travis: Yeah. I don't--
Marisha: Hang on, hold the phone. Hold the phone.
Sam: We could spend a few days here and get them started before we go on to our next thing.
Travis: It's so hard to find shelter and protection that's not a city where you're unwelcome in the first place.
Taliesin: Well, this is an unwelcome world at the moment.
Laura: We could leave Fassbender here to help protect everyone.
Sam: Yes, I guess if we gave him away. But we need him.
Taliesin: Do we need him?
Liam: He's going to slow us down.
Laura: How are we going to get Fassbender anywhere with us?
Sam: Tell him to walk.
Travis: Are we returning the band?
Marisha: Yeah, Quall did want the circlet at some point. It's not necessarily ours to give away.
Laura: Quall's evil.
Taliesin: Is he?
Marisha: Selfish, maybe.
Taliesin: We are under contract, technically.
Laura: This is true.
Marisha: What were you going to say, Pike?
Ashley: We could just leave it with Wilhand.
Marisha: We could leave it with Wilhand, actually.
Ashley: And then we could tell Quall--
Liam: Oh, Quall, we didn't know where you were, we couldn't find you, we left it with Wilhand.
Ashley: We wanted to leave it in one place, just in case we see you again.
Sam: Is that your lying voice?
Liam: Sorry, buddy.
Patrick rothfuss: What is the general atmosphere in town? Are people just done?
Travis: Yeah, right? I'm fucking over this shit!
Matt: Best that you can ascertain, a lot of people are scared because they were separated from their families. A large bulk of people left south to Kymal, which is the nearest township to Westruun that feasibly could take in refugees. They left directly after the dragon attack, even before the herd was there. When the herd came in, the maybe ten percent, 15 percent of people that stayed behind were then captured, some of them were killed as they fought back, many were enslaved and brutalized, and a number of them did escape thanks to this group's efforts. So I'd say those that are left behind, they're eager to see their families. They're probably eager to leave for the time being. Some of them do want to stay just because they're stubborn, but the majority seems interested in not being in a place that could be a target for more dragon attacks, as rumors have come back that there is more than just the black dragon, and many of them recall the red, the green, and the white that came with the initial onslaught that tore through the city. Or it would've been the green and the white.
Patrick rothfuss: Okay, yeah. So I'll wander back, and I say, my friends here are willing to go on a retrieval mission. I'm assuming you folks could use some rest, and the hospitality of the town isn't what it used to be, but I'm sure a lot of people would be very glad to see you. Have you set up protections? Did you hide the treasure?
Laura: We did. We did. It's hidden in a cubby with a little mark on it.
Sam: We'll give you instructions.
Patrick rothfuss: Sketch out something.
Taliesin: Including a little walk around.
Laura: Oh, yeah, the walk around is important.
Travis: But there are stuff out there in the woods. There are things.
Sam: He's a strong man.
Patrick rothfuss: And I've got, these are the more capable, these folks can go out on their own?
Matt: A number of them can, yeah. Some of them were there for general visual support, carrying things forth and stewards that have taken up arms because they have to, but you're essentially the strongest of a group of relatively capable individuals.
Travis: I'd hate to send you into anything that all of a sudden got a bit too nasty. I see you wearing chain mail. If I may, what is your weapon of choice?
Patrick rothfuss: I'm partial-- I was partial to the warhammer.
Travis: Ooh. I reach out to shake his hand. I like your choice.
Ashley: Kerr, do you know how to make armor be quiet? (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: That's probably the first laugh you get. I've been there. I lived there a long time. We could talk shop about that.
Ashley: I love talking shop. Let's do it.
Patrick rothfuss: I'll set up a little expedition and I'll send people out, knowing that a lot of these folks that are here are going to head out. They're going to need resources, and based on what they've said, my team can go out and get some of this treasure?
Matt: Yeah, based on the description they've said and the sheer volume that's there, they end up taking four carts that are capable of doing a somewhat treacherous mountain journey with the strong individuals you send up as well. I don't know if you wanted to go up with them or stay behind.
Patrick rothfuss: It sounds reasonably clear. We'll send up a good group with spare parts, and they're all craftsmen here, they're all farmers, they can fix a cart if it breaks.
Travis: Is there any way for them to contact you if shit goes down while they're up there? If we need to go in as the cavalry to the rescue?
Patrick rothfuss: Are there any--?
Sam: We can send one of the stones with them.
Laura: (groans)
Patrick rothfuss: Anybody with cantrippy message sending--?
Matt: Unfortunately, anybody with any modicum of arcane practitioning capability left.
Patrick rothfuss: They beat feet long ago. Yeah.
Matt: As soon as shit hit the fan, they were like, nope!
Patrick rothfuss: I think at this point, it's people that are stubborn and with really low intelligence scores are the only folks left, so the wizards went right away.
Taliesin: It's appropriate on occasion to leave people to a modicum of risk. Life is risky. It's perfectly reasonable to send people on themselves.
Liam: Can we steer them away from the area where we ran into those basilisks?
Laura: Yes, we will tell you about the basilisks.
Taliesin: They're locals. They should know.
Matt: Well, the basilisks were far south. That was in the Frostweald.
Laura: Oh, never mind.
Matt: As far as you know, they were nowhere near the Bramblewood, thankfully.
Laura: So what should we do here, clear out the sewers? Because that's what was said.
Sam: Wait, there's three options for these people, and they have to decide for us. They can stay here and live in the sewers. They can go to, what's it called?
Matt: Kymal.
Sam: Kymal, where they're still accepting refugees, or they can wander off into the desert.
Taliesin: Well, there's also that group of people wandering around. There's that group.
Sam: That's what I'm saying.
Travis: Hey, guys, so remember the farmer? Outside, and then he turned into a scarecrow?
Marisha: Yes, we remember.
Travis: I found his daughter.
Sam: Oh, where is she?
Laura: Did you tell her?
Travis: No, no, I didn't know what to do. She looked like a deer in the headlights.
Laura: Where is she?
Travis: She was in the prison with Abjurist Noja and Blackfoot, who's now dead. What's her name again?
Matt: Amelia.
Travis: Amelia, really sweet.
Marisha: Did you send her towards refugees?
Sam: Is she around?
Travis: I brought her out before we took the fight to the dragon, so I think she's still in the town, but I don't want to tell her.
Laura: We should tell her, Grog.
Travis: Yeah, I know, and maybe give her a little coin, but, Pike, do you think maybe you could--
Ashley: Tell her?
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Do I remember where he is?
Matt: Where Reginald is? Yeah.
Liam: I head off that way.
Matt: Okay. It's directly west of the town, so it's pretty much south of where you guys are currently standing, because the drop point was northwest of the city. He is still affixed.
Liam: I bring him back here.
Travis: Make him sound real brave, you know. Paint a good picture when you talk to her.
Taliesin: He was real brave.
Laura: There's only about 200 people left. Do you know someone named Amelia?
Matt: You know of Amelia, though you-- No, you did see her last night. You hadn't seen her in a while. She was one of the people that was still in the town. She was peripheral to the battle with the dragon, but fled as soon as she saw it. Unfortunately, dragons have that effect on people. She was a little shamed by it, but you calmed her down. But you do know that she's safe and reachable.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah, she's around.
Laura: Where is everyone staying within the town? Are they scattered about or are they staying in a central location?
Patrick rothfuss: We've organized places for people to sleep if they don't have places for themselves. It's makeshift, but-- because it's been a couple of days, at this point?
Matt: Yeah, it's been almost two days since the initial encounter.
Patrick rothfuss: Right, so we've got triage camps set up. I will say, some people are going to stay no matter what, and they have the right to stay, and that's their choice. I imagine some people will come back and rebuild here, but most people, they are ready to go. They miss their families.
Laura: An entire city.
Taliesin: We can build a dragon shelter. At the very least, that is something we can do.
Marisha: But these people are prisoners here. They feel like they're prisoners in their own home, and that's not a home.
Travis: Then we let them make their choice.
Taliesin: They'll do what they're going to do, but we can give them an option if things get hairy.
Laura: Let's make our way toward them, then.
Matt: Okay. You guys make your way towards town. The largest concentration of survivors that you've been keeping tabs on actually aren't that far from Wilhand's home, in the area where most of the temples are constructed, which is generally considered one of the oldest and most protected areas of Westruun. There are two inns that are basically now ramshackle homes for sleep. There's bedspreads across the entire floor, all the tables and chairs have been moved out, and it's now just a giant room where people who had their homes destroyed come and sleep, not because it's comfortable, but because there's comfort and safety in numbers. People have gathered what belongings they still had that are worth anything or they might need for a journey. Many of them are still gathering bits of dried food and fruit and whatever, preparing for whatever the next step of their travels may be. But you probably have the bulk of the people in the town, other than a few older, very stubborn folks that are like, "I'm going to stay in my home!" The folks that stayed at Mt. St. Helens, where you're like, come on, guys, seriously? (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: There's always some.
Matt: There's always some. But yeah, so as you approach and the door swings open to the first tavern, as you introduce them too, a few of the folks perk up. A few children who couldn't sleep look over. Two of the kids that recognize you run up, "Uncle Kerrek!" They run up and grab the side of your legs. Your chain mail clanks and you pick them up.
Ashley: I look around for Wilhand.
Matt: Wilhand is not amongst this group. Wilhand probably stayed safe within his home, which kept him safe up to this point, so far.
Travis: Do we see Amelia?
Matt: Looking about, yes, you do see Amelia. She is asleep right now, though.
Sam: Wake her up! Tell her her dad's dead!
Marisha: Hey, hey. It's really important. I need to tell you right now.
Ashley: We see her?
Matt: You see her. She's asleep. It's later in the day from the travel, you guys went down the mountain to even get here after you woke up in the morning. You spent most of the day getting back to Westruun, so you're getting pretty close to sunset. The group has been set off for the evening's travel toward the top of Gatshadow. She appears to have fallen asleep early.
Patrick rothfuss: I'll start a few things, and I'll spread the word. Everybody could really use a bit of a party here. We don't have many resources, but I'm betting there's enough liquor for everybody to get good and drunk tonight.
Matt: Oh yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: That's the resource there's always an abundance of at this point. We'll kind of put the word out, and honestly, I don't need to organize it. I can just say, "Dragon's dead, and they did it. We're going to throw them a party tonight." And I'm just going to let that happen.
Matt: And with each chain of that word spreading, the energy immediately lifts up within the room, and the building adjacent, and folks that were either resting or in a state of perpetual anxiousness suddenly brighten up, even with the dirt-smeared faces, you can see smiles poking out as people begin coming into the room to see those who slew the dragon that threatened them. People start coming up and shaking your hands, individuals who haven't seen you guys for years, people that lived down the street and gave you a passing hello in the younger days of your youth, are now coming up to you with a look of absolute appreciation and thanks. Just as that energy picks up, the wine and the ale begin to go throughout the area as stores of them beneath the taverns that were not found by the herd, as there were only so many members of the herd and a larger number of actual inns and taverns throughout the town, people start grabbing cups. Even some of the kids start coming up with cups, and the parents are like, "Hmm, a little." It's New Year's, you can have a sip.
Taliesin: It's medieval times, everybody drinks.
Matt: Without much worry at that point, everyone's getting nice and liquored up, and happiness has ensued. Some folks pull out some meager instruments. There aren't a lot of extremely practiced bards, so your ears tweak a little at the sound of imperfect music, but there is honesty and joy coming from it, so you choose not to lend any sort of constructive criticism to the performers. (laughter)
Taliesin: You sent the last of the decent bards out of town. It's all on you.
Laura: Can I hang out outside? I want to keep my eye on the skies.
Matt: Yeah, not a worry. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Taliesin: I was about to say I was going to join you. I've had my fill of party.
Liam: Yes, I'm sure you were.
Laura: Wait, what is that? 32.
Liam: That's okay.
Matt: 32? All right. You look about the sky. It is clear. The dark clouds that had loomed towards the top of Gatshadow have since blown away. The starry night sky now spreads infinitely above you, and for the first time in a long time, knowing that the immediate danger is no longer chasing you, you take a minute to appreciate the sheer beauty of the view that Westruun always had. This brief moment to allow yourself to exhale helps remind you what all this is worth, and the importance of moments like this. You can hear the laughter behind you within the inn. You can hear the music. You can hear the kids chuckling and telling jokes. People clinking glasses together. And in this tiny little microcosm of a moment here, you let yourself silently smile, and really know what all of this is worth.
Taliesin: I'm going to join--
Marisha: About that time I reach and grab Percy's hand before he leaves the door. Percy. Percy!
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: This is giving me a lot of anxiety. There's a lot of people here.
Taliesin: Is it about your feelings about Vax? Is that the whole problem right now?
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: I really don't--
Marisha: There's so many people calling us heroes.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: We're not heroes.
Taliesin: We pretty much are, actually. I hate to tell you this.
Marisha: No. We're not, we're terrible people. We're terrible people. Why are they telling us this? Oh, god. Oh, god, if I have to shake one more townsperson's hand. Oh, god. I feel like I was cursed. I was cursed. I don't want any of this. I don't want any of this!
Patrick rothfuss: Do I spot that?
Matt: You do. As you guys are having this conversation, Kerr walks over with a rosy grin on his face.
Patrick rothfuss: Is this your first time?
Marisha: (hyperventilating) Hi. I'm Keyleth. Do you want to step outside?
Laura: I come back inside.
Patrick rothfuss: Let's step outside.
Marisha: Okay!
Matt: You guys pass Vex as she steps back into the tavern, passing you guys.
Laura: Pat her on the back. Drunk? Already?
Marisha: No, not enough.
Taliesin: Panic attack.
Matt: As you step outside with Kerr, the cold night air comforting to you, hitting your face, hitting your lungs. It helps the breathing slow, and you have a moment of control over your emotions.
Marisha: (groan) Does the nausea always happen? Is that always a thing?
Patrick rothfuss: Is it the people, or is it the fact that you have finally realized how pointless it all is? (surprised laughter)
Marisha: Maybe it's the fact that I feel like I've been lied to my entire god damn life, and it's all crashing down upon me right now.
Sam: She's druish.
Marisha: So druish. So yeah, you could say-- how about a little bit of column A and a little bit of column B?
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah. How did you deal with it?
Patrick rothfuss: I found other places where I could do good things.
Marisha: Really?
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah.
Marisha: Like what?
Patrick rothfuss: Like, I make wagon couples. The thing that hooks--
Marisha: Oh. I don't know exactly what you said.
Patrick rothfuss: You have a wagon.
Marisha: Sure.
Patrick rothfuss: And then you have a horse.
Marisha: Right, yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: And then something needs to hook the horse to the wagon.
Marisha: Got you.
Patrick rothfuss: And if you have a bad one of those, it breaks, and so people need good ones of those.
Marisha: I don't know at all what you just told me. I'm not going to lie. But I think I get the message.
Patrick rothfuss: I'm guessing that you are bothered by the fact that no matter what you do, you seem to end up destroying more things than you fix.
Marisha: Yes! Jeez, you're like the first person-- no one else gets it.
Patrick rothfuss: They don't get it, do they?
Marisha: No, they don't.
Patrick rothfuss: No.
Marisha: Is that it? That's it? We will destroy everything we touch? We will cause more harm than good? We will carve a path of destruction and make it seem like we're doing good, and then people will worship us because they think we're heroes, when in the back of my head I'm thinking about all the death that has come by our hands?
Patrick rothfuss: That can be a lot of it. I'm not going to lie to you about that.
Marisha: Yeah, you know, Kerr, you're not really helping make me feel better about this. I'm not going to lie.
Patrick rothfuss: Well I imagine that your friends will tell you a lot of things that would make you feel real good. But I'm not one for short term solutions. I think that you're right. I think that you've obviously put a lot of thought into this.
Marisha: So much thought. I swear I've gotten nosebleeds. Keep going. That's beside the point.
Patrick rothfuss: And I've known people like you before. People who are very sensitive to this sort of thing. I have been the sort of person you are. And it's not simple. Your friend who lived here for a while, the big one, what's his name?
Marisha: Grog. Yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: Right. He doesn't have this. He has the opposite of this. It's all good for him, right? And you're kind of jealous, aren't you?
Marisha: I so badly wish I could have what he has.
Patrick rothfuss: But somebody has to look at the big picture. And sometimes that's us, and usually it's unpleasant. But somebody needs to do it.
Marisha: So you're saying this is my curse? This is my duty?
Patrick rothfuss: I'm saying that-- (long pause). I'm saying that if you aren't careful, it will rip you apart from the inside, but that's not a long-term solution. That's just another piece of destruction. You need to find a way to live with the fact that you do what you can, because that's what you can control. And sometimes bad things happen anyway, and so you just have to decide where you're going to pick your hill. You find your hill. Everybody gets one hill, and you plant your flag and you can die on that one. But you have to be careful, because you only get one. If you're really unlucky, you get more than one.
Marisha: And what if the ultimate problem is that I feel like I've had zero control from the start, since birth? I didn't want any of this. I didn't want my abilities. I didn't know I was special until now. And I so desperately just want to be normal. I want to go back to being ignorance and bliss.
Patrick rothfuss: Then I do have a momentary, short-term solution for you.
Marisha: Shoot.
Patrick rothfuss: It's actually there, and I will get you another one. (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: It will help a little bit for now. It will smooth out some of the rough edges long enough for us to talk for a while. Because I've been down this road. Okay? The thing is, you're not wrong, and you're not crazy, but it's not hopeless, either.
Marisha: Okay. Thank you.
Patrick rothfuss: I'll do maybe one of these. It feels like she wants one of these.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: I can read that.
Marisha: I give in. Yeah. Yeah. You know, Kerr.
Patrick rothfuss: Yes?
Marisha: Even surrounded--
Sam: He stabbed you in the back. (laughter)
Liam: The Chroma Conclave sends its regards! (laughter)
Marisha: So Game of Thrones.
Matt: As he brings you into a warm hug, and at first, there is the resistance because this is a person you don't know.
Marisha: Yeah, and my headdress is a little wonky.
Matt: A little wonky due to the drink, due to not concentrating. However, as much as you travel with your friends, this stranger has seemingly come to you with more wisdom and understanding of your continuous predicaments than anybody has in a long time, if at all, and you give into the hug and realize just how nice it is to have somebody understand.
Marisha: I was pretty much going to say that in character, but yeah, that's pretty much what I feel.
Matt: Sorry.
Marisha: No, no, that's-- I wasn't-- Yeah. Yeah. I tell Kern--
Sam: Kern?
Marisha: Car. Kerr.
Matt: Somewhere in that neighborhood.
Marisha: Care Bear. I tell Kerr, even surrounded by friends, I often feel so alone. Thank you for being a friend, even though we just met.
Patrick rothfuss: I get that.
Matt: He brings you in. Gets you another drink.
Patrick rothfuss: Actually, I'll bring another drink out to her.
Matt: Oh, perfect. All right.
Marisha: It's crowded inside.
Taliesin: I stumble outside for a bit as well at this point.
Sam: Meanwhile, I'm telling my table a story about how I won a cannonball contest last night.
Matt: They are enraptured.
Sam: It was in a dragon's lair! I was amazing. (laughter)
Laura: Is Amelia awake at this point?
Matt: Amelia has woken up due to the sound and noise, and she's wandering about with a drink in her hand now.
Ashley: All right. We'll walk over to her.
Travis: I'll stay with you, but just behind you.
Laura: Amelia?
Matt: "Hi, yes! Thank you again for releasing me from the terrible stocks. I really appreciate that. Thank you for everything you've done for Westruun."
Laura: Well, thank you for everything you've done. I've heard amazing things about you and your family.
Matt: "We're meager folk. We come from very simple roots. I--" And she takes a big, long sip of her flagon, sets it down on the table and wipes her mouth. "Truth be told, I-- as soon as I saw that dragon, I ran straight away. I didn't-- You guys are the heroes. I didn't do anything."
Laura: I sit down next to her.
Ashley: I sit down next to her, too. (whispers) Should we just wait till the morning?
Laura: We have to do it right now. So. We knew-- your father is Reginald.
Matt: "Yes. Have you seen him?"
Laura: Yes. He-- I take her hands. One of the bravest men I've ever had the honor of meeting.
Matt: There's recognition in her eyes. Her head pulls back a bit. Her expression goes stoic as she sinks in the wordless reality that you've just bestowed upon her.
Laura: I know this can be-- I know how hard this is to hear. But none of this would have happened, none of this celebration would be possible without him. He sacrificed himself, so that all of us could live, and he spoke your name in the end. He wanted nothing more than for you to be taken care of.
Matt: (long pause) "That sounds like Dad." Wipes her eyes.
Laura: Would you like to pray, Pike?
Ashley: I don't know if you're a woman of faith, but--
Matt: "What faith do you belong to?"
Ashley: I follow Sarenrae.
Matt: "Then, for the night, as do I." She reaches over and takes her flagon, and the tears are streaming down her face in spite of her smile, and she looks to you both, and looks to you. "To Reginald. To Dad."
Travis: To Reggie.
Ashley: To Reggie.
Matt: And she starts weeping into her hands.
Travis: Amelia. You should also know, your father was a man of a few tricks. He told us that he had been saving this up for whenever you were old enough, but I think you should have it now. I hand her 400 gold pieces.
Matt: She looks up for a moment. "How? How did-- they took everything."
Laura: He hid it.
Matt: "This could help a lot of us. Okay."
Travis: I think he knew you would do well with it.
Laura: Dear, there's more coming to the town. You take care of yourself.
Matt: (deep breath) "We'll take care of each other. I think that's what he'd want."
Travis: Aye.
Matt: She grabs her flagon again and takes a big old sip, sets it down. Her eyes are dried a little bit. She wipes the last away.
Travis: I pour my flagon into hers.
Matt: She laughs and drinks of it again. Definitely embraced the idea that she's going to get really drunk tonight. She begins joining in, singing with the music. And the rest of the party picks up as the celebration once again fills the air. The rest of the folks gathering around. (birds tweeting) Don't know why there were birds in that track. (laughter)
Ashley: Is it morning?
Matt: There will be a lot of partying through the night, so probably it's an eventuality. However, we will take this moment to take a quick break to the restroom. We will return here for the next bit of this adventure, so we'll be right back here in a few minutes, guys. Stick around. (cheering) [break]
Matt: Welcome back. So as you return here, bellies full, the evening of drinks, rabble-rousing, and stress release through conversation and laughter carries through until the morning light comes. Everyone wakes up extremely hungover, but in a way that is well-earned and still worthy of the evening that transpired before it. You all come to consciousness, about midday at this time now.
Laura: Whoa.
Matt: You all slept in after what happened.
Liam: I actually spent the night in a field with Reginald.
Sam: Ew.
Matt: You did.
Liam: That's your brain, man. I sat next to his body, waiting for people to come back, they never did. I piled some of Keyleth's flowers on his chest, and then I fell asleep, in the field, six feet away from him. Party!
Marisha: Did you think we were going to--
Liam: Yeah, well.
Marisha: Never mind.
Liam: I don't know.
Laura: Oh. Shit.
Liam: I don't know what I thought, but that's what I did.
Laura: Why didn't you check up on the earring, dude?
Liam: I wanted some space.
Matt: So as you all come around to the breakfast morning, food is being cooked up within the kitchen by some of the various villagers that have taken up to help out with what they can in the area. You start realizing that Vax is nowhere to be found and as this conversation begins to progress, he eventually finds you guys and waltzes into the groaning room of semi-conscious Westruun denizens.
Laura: (yawns) Where were you?
Liam: Getting a good night's sleep on a field of grass. How are you doing?
Marisha: We had a bender.
Liam: You need some water?
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: Can you make some?
Laura: In that endless jug? Or does it only make beer and mayonnaise?
Marisha: Say water to the endless jug.
Travis: Yeah, it makes water.
Sam: It seems like a waste.
Travis: Give me water like the ocean!
Sam: Oh, no, no, no!
Taliesin: No!
Matt: The jug is now filled with water to the top.
Travis: Yeah, look! Water.
Laura: Is it saltwater?
Marisha: I dip my finger in and take a taste.
Matt: It is saltwater.
Laura: (groans) Damn it, Grog.
Travis: Did I do it wrong?
Sam: You did it wrong.
Taliesin: You should try that, though. See if you like it.
Travis: Is there anybody else sleeping in the room?
Matt: There are a few folks that are probably still sleeping off the drinking, but I'd say the majority of the folks have woken up in various states of grogginess.
Travis: (whispers) Hey, should we wake up the rest of the people with this?
Sam: The people who've lost their city? You're going to prank them?
Travis: Well, I'm feeling a bit salty this morning. (laughter)
Travis: I go outside and I dump it.
Marisha: I cast a Create Water spell so we can all have some water.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: We should probably call everyone in the town to talk.
Marisha: Yeah, we should have a big meeting, let them decide what they want to do with the rest of their fucking lives.
Taliesin: What did you have to drink last night?
Laura: Is there a bartender or somebody that's running the inn that everyone's staying at? Or is it kind of makeshift--
Matt: It's just kind of makeshift. However, whoever who once ran this place is no longer here, probably left with the first or second wave of evacuees. Everyone here is just kind of doing their part to keep it going.
Laura: Can I grab someone nearby that looks like they're up and about and actually accomplishing things?
Matt: Yeah. There's an older woman who did not drink but just was around last evening who's done most of the cleaning-- and even though there's no reason to clean, she's still just kind of going through the motions of wiping down the counters and putting things away properly.
Laura: Dear heart, um--
Matt: "Yes?"
Laura: Could you spread the word that there's going to be a town meeting?
Matt: "A town meeting? What for?"
Laura: So we can talk about how to keep everyone safe, dear.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: Yes. As soon as possible, can everyone meet here?
Sam: No, the central--
Laura: In the center of town.
Sam: Where we killed Kevdak.
Laura: Where the goliaths, where the barbarians-- sorry, Grog-- where all the mean people were.
Matt: "All right, I'll get the word out." And she puts away a couple of towels and grabs a couple of people near her, and the three of them saunter out into the main walkway.
Sam: Also, I don't know if he remembers, but sometime in our revelry last night, I asked Kerr if he could-- I gave him a sheath, just a sheath of a sword-- and I asked him if he could make just a little-- there's some metal components to it-- I was asking him if he could just make a little secret compartment on it. Like a place that you could hide a little vial or a little powder or a little note or something, just in the side of the sheath.
Patrick rothfuss: What are the odds that I would make a total hash of that? (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: I'm imagining I don't do that much delicate work.
Matt: No. But also, how much did you drink last night?
Patrick rothfuss: Oh, right! Yeah, I can totally do that.
Matt: So, how much-- how drunk were you?
Patrick rothfuss: You know, I probably was pretty modest. I probably drank with her, to be social. And then I probably just kind of prowled and made sure nothing got out of hand and everyone was okay. Yeah, I probably-- I'll take a shot at it. How attached to this sheath are you?
Taliesin: (snickers)
Sam: Yes. Extremely.
Patrick rothfuss: Extremely. (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: I'll see what I can do.
Liam: Just nail a sock on the side of it, it'll be great. (laughter)
Sam: I don't make the best decisions.
Matt: Especially while drinking. You find your way back to your forge, which is still functional. It was not one of the buildings that fell on the initial attack. You heat it up late into the evening. It doesn't require a lot because it's smaller work. Go ahead and make a blacksmithing check with your proficiency bonus. Plus, with this, it would be dexterity. Because it's very, very minute work.
Sam: Could I have inspired him?
Matt: You could. Yes! You can very much do that.
Sam: I will give him a limerick to inspire him with.
Matt: Drunken Scanlan limerick, here we go!
Sam: Have you heard the legend of Shale? One eye, elderly, frail? To a black dragon, she told, "You may be ancient, but I'm old!" And somehow lived to tell the tale. (cheering)
Matt: Go and take your d10 inspiration dice, if you want to add that to the roll.
Patrick rothfuss: All right. So, just proficiency bonus--
Matt: Plus your dex bonus.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah, my vast dex bonus. 16.
Matt: 16. That's not bad. It's not the finest craftsmanship in the world, and what once was a very, very beautifully detailed sheath to a weapon now has a somewhat hammered, dented element to it that you probably want to hide with a silk or something. It's an imperfection in what was a previously a perfect element, but it is functional. It is a small compartment that actually has a tiny metal slot that can be moved closed or open with your thumb.
Sam: Great!
Matt: It's functional. It's not pretty, but it is functional.
Patrick rothfuss: We focus on function here.
Sam: I understand. Thank you for your nimble fingers. Next time, I'll ask Percy to do it. (laughter)
Taliesin: And it will explode.
Marisha: I make a tonic out of the glissfoil that I had in my pouch from the garden back in Emon. Pass it out, a little hangover tonic.
Matt: It does help, actually.
Laura: All of us?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Sweet!
Marisha: Just a little crushed herbs and water, like a tea.
Travis: A little hair of the dog, huh?
Laura: Thanks, Kiki!
Travis: Are we day drinking?
Sam: Also, before we go to the meeting, I haven't used it in a while but I would like to use my Scrying Potion to-- not potion! The scry that I left at our Greyskull Keep so long ago, to kind of see what's going on at Greyskull.
Taliesin: Your scry pie?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Glancing at it this moment now, and it's about midday, you concentrate on what you left behind.
Sam: Yep. We all know what it was.
Matt: You have a brief view, a small windowed view of the kitchen before you. It seems to be currently empty.
Sam: But still standing?
Matt: But still standing. You do notice, in the sink there are some fresh dishes.
Sam: Oh! Okay.
Taliesin: Squatters.
Marisha: It's fucking squatters.
Sam: Or maybe our staff.
Taliesin: Unpaid now, so now they're squatters.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: (laughs) It's an important distinction.
Travis: Can you talk through your poop?
Sam: No, no. Poo doesn't work that way, Travis. It's a one-way street.
Travis: The finer points are lost on me.
Ashley: You left it in the kitchen?
Sam: I left it in a jar in the kitchen and I told the people not to open it.
Marisha: We only got a C on our general inspection rating. (laughter)
Matt: There's a parchment that's just nailed to the outside of the keep. At least it's good calligraphy. All right, so unless you have anything else to prepare in this time, most of the townsfolk are beginning to converge towards the square in the central-southern region of Westruun where you had the showdown battle with Kevdak outside of the Margrave's home. The now deceased Margrave. Everyone seems to have gathered together and there is an air of tension. As you approach, as folks are muttering to themselves, then it gets quiet as you all step into the central area. There is still-- it's been pulled over, it was partially damaged before, but there is a large elevated platform that was used for speeches or celebration elements that has been, for the time being, fixed to allow you guys to stand up if you wish to address the rest of the folks.
Laura: Who wants to talk? Scanlan? You're so charismatic.
Taliesin: What are we going to say?
Sam: I'm still reading my book. But, yes, we're just going to ask them a question.
Laura: I think we need to ask them where they want to go.
Taliesin: And if they ask what we think?
Sam: We don't think anything. We'll support their decision, right?
Taliesin: I think something.
Sam: What do you think?
Marisha: I guess I could talk to them?
Taliesin: I would like to build-- The death of a city is such a blasphemy. It is the murder of the dead. And I'm horrified.
Marisha: Percy, a city is nothing without living people in it. A city is made up of the people that live inside of it.
Taliesin: It is.
Marisha: We have to protect them first.
Liam: Percival's suggesting letting them live here, building something for them underground--
Marisha: Which we can facilitate?
Liam: Rather than running.
Sam: We have a lot of other things to do-- let's talk to them.
Travis: How about Pike talks to them?
Ashley: Me?!
Travis: Yeah! You were born here.
Laura: This is true! Pike? They know you.
Ashley: (sighs) Well, I'm not very charismatic.
Sam: I'll be with you.
Travis: But you're genuine.
Ashley: Do you want to help me?
Liam: Exactly. You are genuine.
Ashley: So we're telling them-- asking them if they want to stay. And if they do stay, that we could built them shelter.
Laura: Help them take shelter in the sewers. If there's danger.
Travis: The dragon's dead. We don't know if another one will come.
Laura: Can we ask before we go up on the stage if Kerr, if you're willing to help, should they want that? Is that something you could help us with?
Patrick rothfuss: I would be delighted to help facilitate things between you and the community. I know a lot of people that have left will return. I don't doubt that for a second. But right now, everyone is scattered and scared. And a lot of families have been separated. A lot of people who would love to return here and rebuild the city, they don't know where their loved ones are. And I know that is preying on their minds more than their own safety, in some cases. I know most people are looking to leave and come back eventually. And depending on the resources, like what you've generously offered from the caves-- that will keep them from being refugees. They can continue to be a community in this other town, and then return, well-organized and with resources to build it. (sighs) I don't feel they're ready to do it here and now, though. I don't feel they're excited about that. I know that so many of them have people from their lives they're just missing.
Travis: And by the way, it's going to be a hot second before the carts come back from the cave, right?
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah. Probably--
Matt: Another day or two before they arrive, yeah.
Marisha: Can we even say that these people are in--
Ashley: So are you thinking they won't want to stay, then?
Patrick rothfuss: I know from speaking to a lot of people over the last couple of days, and even speaking to them last night, they're relieved that the dragon is gone. But they're worried about more in the future. But primarily, they're looking to be safe now, and reunite with their friends and family, and most of those people are in--?
Matt: Kymal.
Patrick rothfuss: Kymal.
Liam: I think we give them a choice. But I think, Pike, I think it's a good idea. I think you present the idea of staying and getting word to the people in Kymal that some of their loved ones are still here, still living. The dragon is dead. Summon them back to rebuild.
Laura: How far away is Kymal?
Sam: Two days' travel.
Travis: Wow. Fucking Shorthalt!
Ashley: How do you know?
Laura: Was that in your book?
Sam: My girl is there.
Laura: Your daughter's in Kymal?
Sam: Yes. I'll be going there anyway.
Travis: Haylie? Maylie?
Sam: Kaylie.
Marisha: And Kymal hasn't been hit yet?
Taliesin: Not yet.
Liam: Is Kymal bigger or smaller than Westruun?
Matt: It's smaller than Westruun.
Laura: Well--
Liam: They're better off in Westruun.
Marisha: I'm afraid with each refugee we add to another city, we're only making it a larger target.
Taliesin: Which is why-- (sighs) There is no safe harbor right now.
Marisha: And there's no point in rebuilding--
Taliesin: There is.
Marisha: Why?
Taliesin: Because this is civilization. This is--
Marisha: There's no point in rebuilding right now when there's still three other dragons who will only come and go, 'Stomp, stomp, stomp! Dead!'
Travis: They might.
Taliesin: They might.
Marisha: They. Will.
Taliesin: No, they might. We don't know they will.
Patrick rothfuss: If you were a dragon, what would you do?
Taliesin: I would hit the city where all the refugees are going. Because it would hurt more. I would not hit the city that's going to take 200 years to be a shadow of its former self.
Marisha: Yes, but you're also not a vain dragon who just had one of its allies taken out in this very city. These dragons are going to have a huge vendetta against Westruun now.
Taliesin: I may not have lost an ally, but I am a vain dragon.
Travis: Maybe they will, maybe they won't. How about for those who want to stay, we help build some fortifications. For those who want to leave, we'll protect them on their way there.
Liam: We're at wartime. The people can live underground. For now.
Taliesin: Building will give them something to do. And if the dragon comes back, they will be safe underground. And if the dragon doesn't, we have saved thousands of years of inspiration and life. It's-- you can't just abandon something like this! There's too much here.
Liam: Otherwise, what else are we fighting for?
Taliesin: Otherwise, it becomes our friend Pike from Nowhere.
Travis: That would be bad.
Ashley: That would be bad.
Laura: That would be terrible.
Travis: Scanlan, get their attention.
Sam: Get their attention? All right.
Laura: And Pike, do you want to step up there?
Ashley: Okay. I'll go, I'll go.
Sam: I blow my horn to call the meeting to attention.
Matt: (horn noise) Everyone gets really quiet. The two of you step up onto the platform--
Ashley: (airhorn noises)
Matt: (laughs) It gets quiet. Everyone gets quiet. You hear one voice in the back go, "That's my Pike!" As you immediately look over, you see at the far end is Wilhand, leaping up, trying to get a view between the crowd. Everyone's quiet, looking at the two of you, now on top of this platform. Which puts you just over head height from the rest of the folks, by the way.
Ashley: (stuttering) Hello, everybody from the town.
Sam: I'm doing sign-language interpretation. (laughter)
Ashley: I know I'm not one usually to speak up, but because I know so many of you and some of you are family-- (blows kiss) Um, we-- I'm sure you guys have heard because of the party and festivities from last night, the dragon has been killed.
Matt: There's a cheer (crowd cheers), clapping--
Ashley: And we know that some of you have stayed because if anything else, this is your home.
Matt: Some murmuring.
Ashley: And some of your family has left for Kymal?
Sam: Kymal.
Ashley: Kymal. But we wanted to give you all an option. And for those of you that do want to stay, we would like to provide you with an underground protection of sorts.
Matt: (whispering and murmuring) Whispers through the crowds.
Sam: As we speak, upwards of 40,000 gold are being delivered by your finest men. This, with our help, can help construct a sturdy underground layer that will shelter you if the dragon were to come back. It will take days, possibly weeks to construct this. But if you wanted to stay, this would be your best bet. However, we are not forcing you to do anything. If you would like to go with the fellow refugees to Kymal, or find your fellow citizens scattered about, roving in the lowlands, that would be fine too. We need to come to an agreement today, so that we can help you do what you want.
Matt: One gentleman takes the stage next to you guys, man in his younger 20s, kind of soot smeared on his cheeks. Looks like he's a little weathered by the experience. Even though he looks young and thin, there is a general hardness to his face from recent experiences. He kind of raises up, looking at the both of you, below him: "I, for one, miss my family and have no home to go back to. And the the homes that are empty in this town right now are empty because those who lived there are now dead. There are ghosts here I wish not to see every morning when I wake up. If I'm going to live here, I want to return with those that are important to me and build a new home, over the old. Now is not my time to stay. Especially if more of those things are coming back. If anyone wishes to come with me to Kymal, please, stand with me." And he steps off the stage and make his way to the right side of the stage. Everyone in the crowd looks to each other, and few folks begin filtering off and gathering around him. I'd say about a third to half of the crowd begins to shift over as another person steps up right next to you guys, actually. This is a woman in her late 40s or so. She's wearing relatively nice clothing that's been kind of torn apart through constant use and not really having an option to change into. She looks like she came from money, but has definitely been pulled down to the same level as the rest of the folks here; they're living in destitution out of necessity. Her hair's trying to be pulled up into a bun, but a lot of it is kind of falling around her face, and she's keeping this kind of poor facade of her previous life. And she stands up: "I myself, my family's history is here in this town and I would be remiss if I didn't express my hesitation in leaving that behind, for the next roving horde of barbarians to rush in and take from us while we're away. Especially if this gold is to be retrieved, how do we know how much of that is to be distributed? How much was my family's versus yours? If we're to divide ourselves at this point, we're leaving ourselves open to inner conflict, lest we have a very clear idea where these funds are going. And I, for one, want to make sure I have a home when my family returns. So I'm not leaving. I'm not going to come back here months down the line and find four layabouts living in that home, made a complete mess of our things, and telling us it's now theirs. Those who wish to stay, stand with me." (harrumphs) And she walks offstage, to the side--
Taliesin: I'm going to get up on stage.
Sam: (whispers) You don't live here.
Taliesin: The terrible woman may have a point. (laughter)
Matt: "Thank you. What?"
Taliesin: (sighs) Many of you are going to leave, and that's fair. And that's right, you're free to do so. I wish any of us could promise you safety once you leave this city. But there is no safety anywhere. The dragons fly freely. They may come back and wreak their vengeance upon the rest of Westruun once again. They may not. They may find new, fresh targets. We don't know. (long sigh) We will build an underground haven in case of attack, free of charge. We will make a place that is open to all. Since there seems to be some dispute about the finances, we will create a trust that will be used to help those who stay and help rebuild. It will be managed and it will be fair. And it will not go to titles. If you're properly titled, you'll have money elsewhere, and you'll figure it out. (laughter)
Matt: You hear, "Hmph!"
Taliesin: New money. (laughter)
Sam: Old magic!
Taliesin: Old magic, new money from ivory towers. I would urge you to stay. I would urge you to leave, collect your people and return. I would urge for one city not to be wiped from the map. And anything we can do to make this at least livable while it is rebuilt, we will do our best to help. (sighs) It is such a victory for them if Westruun falls. And I sit back down.
Matt: Make a persuasion check with advantage.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: There is a silence in the crowd and people have stopped shuffling from side to side. Some of the folks on the side of the gentleman began to shift back and people tend to stand up. And even the gentleman who was standing at the opposite side kind of ponders for a moment: "Well, regardless of what happens, we have to get word out. We have to let our loved ones know what has happened, and that it's safe to come back. If you indeed can help us set this about, I'm confident we can keep out of sight. At least, hopefully."
Marisha: I stand up on the podium. Um, sorry. While the terrible man and the terrible woman both absolutely have a point--
Sam: (whispers) He's not that bad.
Taliesin: (whispers) I'm that bad.
Marisha: I look at the man who's off to side. I agree with you that finding your loved ones is most important. I believe we can actually maybe do a little bit of both here and solve both problems. Me, alongside with the help of other magic users, can help quickly build an underground bunker. And I would be willing to help escort any party to Kymal in order to help find your people. Whereas I do agree, to an extent, with Percy that we should not let Westruun fall to this, this city is only as great as its people.
Laura: Woo! Good leadership! (laughter)
Sam: That's definitely Vex.
Matt: Some claps and a few folks kind of agree and nod their heads. The gentleman that you've been talking to kind of looks at you and he's very intently engaged and nodding in agreement.
Marisha: Uh. To Westrunn! Huzzah!?
Laura: Huzzah!
Taliesin: The awkward woman makes a fine point!
Matt: And the people eventually raise their arms, "To Westruun!" "To Westruun!" (laughter)
Matt: The clapping comes together.
Travis: Yeah, football rules!
Taliesin: Pike, do you remember that spell you cast on Greyskull Keep when it got hit by the dragon? The thing you did--
Laura: That was Divine Intervention, I thought.
Taliesin: Was that Divine--?
Matt: No, she summoned a Planar Ally. That one was--
Ashley: To help rebuild?
Taliesin: That was expensive, wasn't it?
Ashley: No.
Matt: That spell was expensive.
Ashley: Yes!
Laura: It was, like, a thousand gold?
Matt: That was Planar Ally--
Ashley: What do you want to rebuild? I mean, underground--
Matt: Depends on how long you want it to stay. So a task measured in hours requires a thousand gold per hour.
Taliesin: No, no, no.
Matt: A task measured in days requires 10,000 gold per day--
Laura: (in alarm) No, no, no!
Matt: Mind you, these entities can do some crazy stuff.
Sam: Yeah. And we have 40,000 more gold coming. That's four days of entities--
Laura: But I don't want to use up all the-- we can do that after things are--
Sam: What else are we going to spend the money on?
Ashley: I can try Divine Intervention again so--
Marisha: We don't want to rebuild a city that's going to be stomped by dragons in another three months!
Ashley: No, just the bunker, right?
Laura: Just the bunker--
Ashley: Not the city.
Laura: No.
Ashley: Keyleth can make the bunker.
Laura: It's fine.
Sam: For hundreds and hundreds of people?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Honestly, if we take a couple days, I can make a pretty extensive--
Taliesin: We're going to use a previously existing sewer system, and we're just going to reinforce it with pillars and then block off any of the sewage and re-route it, since it doesn't have to handle the load that it used to.
Ashley: We're going to build a vault?
Taliesin: We're going to build a vault.
Patrick rothfuss: While they're chatting, I'll step forward and I'll say: we all have a lot to think about. Talk with your friends and neighbors and come to know your own minds. This is a decision that has to be made soon, but not on the spur of the moment. Thank you for coming.
Matt: One man in the front, an old friend of yours, his name is Joseph, puts his hand up, "Kerrek! Of which mind are you? Are you staying or are you going? Are you going to escort, go along as an escort with this woman, or are you staying to protect us? Where you walk, I walk."
Patrick rothfuss: I am going to do what would be best for the town as a whole. I am not sure-- to a certain extent, I'll be led what is needed by the town. If--
Matt: "What we need is a decision."
Sam: If I may, If I may, I'm so sorry, I know everyone's talking here. A city is not just a collection of houses and streets. It is a person of itself. And we can't go dividing it right now. Everyone should stay here. Everyone should be a unit, a cohesive unit. And we: me, Keyleth, and one of your own, Pike, will definitely travel to Kymal to spread the word, if you give us a list of your ancestors, family members, friends, we can get word to all of them very quickly.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Sam: 28.
Matt: Everyone in the crowd seems to nod, and the gentleman kind of nods his head to you, "All right." (laughter)
Taliesin: You're a monster.
Patrick rothfuss: Since you haven't been as present in the community for a while, if I am sure that things are adequately defended here, I might go myself to ensure the proper apportionment of funds and to talk to those of our townsfolk who have already left, and perhaps organize them a little more effectively so that they can return.
Matt: There's a few nods of agreement that spread through the crowd, and actually, the folks on the left side, with the woman that seemed to building tension and arguing amongst themselves over the ideas of that, seem to quiet a bit at you taking up that position. You guys notice this, too; there's a general respect for Kerrek that other folks don't seem to carry in this community. Everyone nods in agreement. "Well, I have no objections!" "Neither do I." The woman on the other side. (huffs) "Well, have no other choice, do we?" Everyone nods, and they look up to the rest of you. Look to you. "Then let's begin building."
Laura: Bunker it is.
Liam: As all that starts to wind down, I ask my sister to point me towards Reginald's daughter.
Laura: Do you see her?
Liam: The one with the nice hair?
Laura: Yeah, that one. And the giant bag of gold.
Liam: I seek her out in the crowd.
Matt: She's still looking up, kind of by herself in the crowd, clapping off to the side as you approach.
Sam: I'm going to hang near him.
Liam: Excuse me, young miss.
Matt: "Yes? Hi."
Liam: I'm sorry. We haven't spoken, but you spoke to my friends. You spoke to my sister. My sister looks very much--
Matt: "I can see the similarity, yes."
Liam: I know the news they delivered to you. I am so sorry for your loss. Your father was very brave at the end. Impressively so, and I want you to know that. I've also recovered his body, and I thought to add him to the pyres that this city did outside the city, but I thought maybe you had a family plot or somewhere you'd prefer him to be laid to rest. I'll gladly take him there for you, or take him with you. Whatever you prefer.
Matt: "I'll come with you. I'd like to see him one last time. We have no family plot. We were meager folk. But he spent most of his life working in that field. I think it's only fitting that's where he spends the rest of his days. Show me." And as you guys begin the building process, she follows you out to the field where she is shown the body of Reginald, and she takes a moment of quiet with him, and cradles his body. But there's a smile on her face, and she says thank you for letting her say goodbye face to face. With your help, you both bring the body back to the farmhouse where you had first met, and you spend the rest of the day interring his body within the hillside that is buttressed against the actual farmland that he tilled.
Liam: To lose a parent before their time is no easy thing. I'm very sorry for you.
Matt: "It's all right. He did good."
Liam: That he did.
Matt: "Let's go ahead and make sure the rest of these folk have more to look forward to, shall we?" She looks at you for a second, and you can see she takes a general scope of your expression and your emotional state, and even for a young girl, she has a stronger insight than you expected, and she puts her arm out and touches your shoulder and says, "You carry too much sadness with you. You've done a lot of good. Let yourself-- Let yourself understand and accept the fact that you've done a lot of good." And she starts walking back towards the town.
Liam: I linger for a bit.
Matt: All right. Now. You guys begin the process of building this subterranean bunker. You take the first day, scanning through as a group, clearing out whatever creatures lurk beneath the city. Nothing of severe threat lies down there to your power level, and you know, what once was a threat to you guys long ago, within the period of a day, you've cleared out a very, very sizable portion of the sewer system. And because it's been empty for quite a while, it's also not in a very terrible state either. I mean, it still needs to be cleaned, but that's also the specialty of those who can control water and air, let alone reinforcing the stonework that keeps the walls themselves sturdy, strong, able to support any heavy weight on the surface. Within the next couple days, you guys continue the reinforcing process. People begin actually moving their supplies down underground and begin taking bits of furniture and elements that would at least make life down there more comfortable, or at least, a ghost image of some of the life they lived above. Because when you're down there, the comforts are what keep you going. But the people seem, as more and more of it comes together, folks genuinely begin to get a little excited at the idea of having a safe place to live for a while. And you feel like this is doing some good for these folks at the very least. Whenever you guys would like to take your journey--
Taliesin: I would like to do a couple things just to the room before we do anything other than this to our houses.
Matt: Certainly.
Taliesin: I would like on one wall to carve the names of every survivor who stayed in the city. And on the other wall start--
Sam: In Draconian.
Taliesin: In Draconian. (laughter)
Taliesin: Terrible person. And on the other wall, start carving in the story of--
Marisha: Those we've lost? That's not what you were going to say.
Taliesin: What we've done to save the city, and where the story, and where the city came from, and what has happened, and make a place where other people, they can start carving in also the history and everything they need to say about the city, just one of the giant walls, I just want to start filling in with stories of the city.
Matt: Okay, and this catches your attention too, because as pragmatic an individual as Percy is, this is a strangely artistic endeavor of his point, at least the intent behind it.
Taliesin: You disagree with my opinions.
Marisha: I don't really agree with immortalizing ourselves in stone--
Taliesin: It's not about us.
Marisha: --way before we're even dead--
Laura: It's not us, Keyleth. It's the history of the town. Perk up, you're driving me crazy. (laughter)
Taliesin: How long do you live?
Marisha: If I complete my journey, it could be upward of a thousand years or more.
Taliesin: How long do you think I live?
Marisha: Less than a hundred? If you're lucky.
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: How long?
Taliesin: (sighs) I am Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III.
Marisha: No kidding.
Taliesin: My ancestry dates back thousands of years and will continue for thousands more, unless Whitestone falls. I live as long as Whitestone lives. This place is the human soul. This is what we have built with our tiny moments. To lose a place like this, we don't feel it immediately, but it would ruin everyone in small ways.
Marisha: Not all of us are lucky enough to have a lineage in a name.
Taliesin: Not all of us are lucky enough to have a lineage in a lifespan.
Marisha: Not many of us are lucky enough to have a lineage at all.
Taliesin: Which is why we save everyone we can.
Marisha: I guess that is one thing we can both agree on.
Taliesin: This is good we're doing here. This is great good. And it's not about idolizing ourselves; it's about a very long story, which we are, even you, a tiny part of.
Matt: At this moment, you look down and notice that, while you guys were having this talk, a small child has walked up to the wall and where Percy has stopped the carving, the child has picked up a piece of wayward chalk that was on the ground and has begun to draw little stick figures on the wall where you stopped. And in a little bit of the quiet, he stops and looks up over his shoulder at the two of you and smiles, and then just goes back to writing on the wall.
Taliesin: He'll outlive you, right there.
Marisha: Yeah, no, you're probably right. Look at him. I guess this little guy is like the moment encapsulated. Hey, bud.
Liam: (kid voice) That's a octopus!
Laura: (kid voice) That's a shark. This is a flower.
Ashley: (kid voice) This a bear!
Taliesin: I give Keyleth a little hug.
Sam: Pikey-pants. Do you want to have gone to Kymal? Or do you want to have stayed and helped?
Ashley: Didn't you volunteer me to help?
Sam: I volunteered you to come with me to Kymal.
Ashley: I'll go with you to Kymal.
Travis: I'll come along to chaperone. No, I'm kidding.
Sam: You can.
Patrick rothfuss: Oh, so these two things are happening simultaneously?
Marisha: Are these two things happening simultaneously?
Matt: This is up to you guys. The Kymal journey--
Laura: It's a couple days.
Sam: A couple days and back.
Matt: Well, not according to druidic spells.
Sam: Oh yeah. You could bamf us there.
Matt: Which is what I assumed you were referring to about instantaneous travel.
Taliesin: At some point we should put a teleport circle in this, down here.
Laura: That would probably be smart.
Matt: Well, you would have to contact an arcane practitioner.
Taliesin: Somebody else is going to do this. We've got shit to do.
Ashley: Let's bamf in.
Sam: Let's go do it.
Marisha: So we're all going to go?
Matt: If you would like to.
Laura: I'm going to stay and help build.
Matt: Okay. So, Scanlan, Pike, and Keyleth, you're going with them?
Marisha: I guess so. You guys are going to need me to get back.
Sam: That's true.
Marisha: Unless I can get you there, and then you can walk back. Fly there, walk back. Or you can--
Taliesin: Teleport.
Ashley: Can you fly?
Sam: I can fly.
Marisha: I can mist form us, and then we can get there in how many hours?
Matt: Mist form, you'd get there in under a day.
Marisha: Teleporting is more fun.
Matt: So what are you doing?
Taliesin: Teleport them there, and then they can get back on their own.
Sam: Yeah, we can get back on our own. It's two days.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: They just killed a dragon, they'll be fine. What's a bandit going to do?
Marisha: Have fun, you gnomes! (magic crackle)
Matt: All right. She finds one of the surface trees just outside of the sewage system. As she touches her hands to its bark, the bark cracks and splits open, revealing the doorway behind it, about five foot of internal wood tunnel leads to an opposing side that opens into what immediately is a tent city on the outside walls of Kymal. You guys quickly step through with the moments you have before the portal slams shut.
Marisha: High five! High five!
Sam: Nope.
Marisha: Asshole.
Matt: You do get a little tag from Pike right before it shuts.
Marisha: Yeah! Scanlan, you suck! (laughter)
Matt: You guys are now standing on the outside of a small cluster of trees outside of Kymal. The mountain range behind it, you can see, there are hundreds and hundreds of people that are displaced in the outside of the city in tents.
Patrick rothfuss: Before-- because assuming it's been, it sounds like a couple of days, if there's walls and artistry happening, have the wagons gotten back?
Matt: They have, actually, yes.
Patrick rothfuss: And if there are those resources, and I know that this trip is happening, I've got to go across and make sure that my people aren't dying of dysentery.
Sam: You're coming?
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah.
Sam: Great. (coughing) Third wheel. Trying to get some action here. (laughter)
Matt: There's a high five tag to Keyleth as Pike jumps through, and before it slams shut, Kerr goes, "Wait!" and jumps through after.
Sam: No, this is great. It's great to have an old dude with us also.
Ashley: I do think it's great!
Liam: Two old dudes.
Ashley: There's so much that I wanted to talk to you about, Kerr! I'm so glad that you came along!
Sam: (grumbles) (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: There's important work to be done here.
Ashley: There is very important work to be done, and I feel like we all need to focus on that, and get down to the nitty-gritty of it, you know?
Liam: I think your nitty-gritty might be different from somebody else's nitty-gritty. (laughter)
Ashley: Let's go, let's walk!
Sam: Let's go spread the good word about Westruun, and the great things happening in sewers there.
Matt: All right. You guys begin to make your way from tent to tent, finding individuals, many of which you recognize. Some have recognition of you, and there's a brief little discussion of what's happened, what's transpired, and you tell them of the fall of Umbrasyl, of the herd being sundered and sent westward, and making sure, as Scanlan would, that Vox Machina is responsible.
Sam: Yes. And that it rhymes.
Matt: Indeed. There is no central guidance here. The Margrave Tumner Wann, who runs Kymal, does occasionally come out to check up on people. It's not like they're being kept out of the city forcefully. There's just no room for them. They've taken in as many refugees as they can, and then everyone else on the outside is being helped to the best of their ability, but they're very thin on resources. They've sent trade wagons out to Stillben, even southward, they sent some over into the Verdant Expanse to hopefully trade with Syngorn. There have been people that have been trying to help where they can. However, most of the people outside are still beginning to starve a little bit. A lot of the beasts of burden have been converted into food out of necessity, so there's a lot of empty carts and wagons around. People are in this holding pattern, waiting to hear any news. And the news that you bring does bring hope to the eyes of those that do speak with you.
Sam: At some point in our journey I excuse myself for ten minutes, drink my last shit-scrying potion. Poop out a little loaf. (laughter)
Sam: Take a tiny bit in it, wrap it in a little bit of parchment, stick it in the secret compartment of the hilt of the sword.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: The scabbard, yeah.
Taliesin: You should name the sword Number Two. (laughter)
Sam: I like it.
Matt: The classiest of magic practitioners, Scanlan Shorthalt. You do so. Like spackling a wall, you fill the compartment affixed within the scabbard without issue.
Sam: Thank you.
Liam: Shove that dingleberry in there.
Taliesin: Fresh blueberry sherbet.
Matt: Anyway.
Sam: All right, so we've spread the good word. Are people going to travel back, do you think?
Matt: Many folks are now considering returning. Some folks speak of another group of people that are over by the Foramere Basin. They're going to go ahead and send people over there to give word. Some people are asking to see if their family members are okay, and you don't know everyone's name there, but you tell them there are survivors. Most of the people you talk to are intent on returning, because this living situation is only going to be so good for so long.
Sam: I hope we're not sentencing them to death.
Taliesin: To be fair, the town you're currently in could be gone next week.
Sam: That's true.
Taliesin: Either way.
Patrick rothfuss: I know what's needed back there. I've got access to money. They have wagons and labor. I know most of the people in town, so I'm not going to do it myself, but I know who-- honestly, anyone who runs a farm is a better organizer than any modern small business owner.
Matt: This is very true.
Patrick rothfuss: So I will talk to a few of these old, capable farmer types and say, okay, here's the money. You know how to bargain. Do your business, and we can get together and we'll head back all together. As soon as you can get everyone together and all that. Also, I'll put somebody in charge of making sure that we're bringing in food, and I'll do a scan around and make sure that people literally aren't dying of dysentery. That they have a clean well and all of that stuff.
Matt: Yeah. I mean, there is disease, as tends to happen when you have people who are displaced and clustered like that in sub-par living conditions, but no major pandemics that are kicking through the people there. The people who are sick are being tended to, and there are people who are medically practiced, or at least herbalists and such, that can help with that. You find a slight group of trustworthy individuals that you know would do well and understand the process, and with the mere inclusion of a few thousand gold, would be more than enough to be able to purchase from the interior of Kymal enough oxen, horses, and other beasts to bring most of the current carts back with you. That was the only real barrier, because Kymal was like, "We can't help you guys for free." Now there's gold, people are like, "Oh! Well, let's talk." Charity only goes so far. But you do feel through this trip that you've definitely made an impact, and most of the people, at least over the next week or so, will be outfitted with the proper materials, food for the journey, and be able to make their way back towards Westruun.
Sam: And I will also go to look for Dr. Dra and Kaylie at some point.
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Ashley: I'll go with him.
Sam: 27.
Matt: Okay. As you walk with him, within mere hours, almost like you picked up the scent on a hunt, you see a glimmer of short, dark hair, and you glance over, and sure enough, there is Kaylie, who is currently holding over her shoulder Dr. Dranzel, who is limping alongside her.
Sam: Oh God! Is he okay?
Matt: You can go and ask.
Sam: I'll go and ask!
Matt: They're walking across the street. They haven't noticed you yet.
Sam: Oi! Shorthalt!
Matt: There's a stop, and Kaylie turns her head.
Sam: Hi.
Matt: She drops Dranzel's arm and rushes forward and gives you a hug. And then lets go after a second and pushes away. "Glad to see you survived. That's good."
Sam: You, too. How's he?
Matt: "He's got a foot infection, nothing too great to look about." You look down and his left foot is all swollen. He's like, "I've had worse!"
Sam: Pike has healed feet before.
Ashley: May I?
Matt: "Please. Be my guest." As the half-orc grins with his hat still floppy on his head, he presents his horrible foot that gives off a delightful smell of putrescence.
Sam: While she works on him, I'm going to take Kaylie off to the side.
Matt: It's easy enough for you to cleanse elements of disease with minor healing. We'll say for the purposes of this, through a couple of low-level spells you're able to pretty much take care of his foot entirely. He's like, "That's incredible! I mean, if you ever need a traveling troupe, we're always looking for someone to keep us on the up and up! Can you cure hangovers?"
Ashley: I can.
Matt: "Well, hang with me, young Pike!" While this is happening, you turn to Kaylie.
Sam: I'm so happy that you are alive and safe, and I came a great distance to do other things, but mainly to see you, and I just wanted to say a few things before I go off to complete my mission. You know, I know I'm not the father that you wanted, but I'm the father that you have, and I'm sorry. I just wanted to tell you that I've been doing a lot of thinking about you, and me, and where I fit in to the life of a family man. Most of my adult life, I've been longing for a gnome to care for, and I met a really good one, and she's here and her name is Pike. And she's beautiful and wonderful, and possibly my soulmate, but I've learned that she's not my family and never will be. You're the gnome that I'm to care for forever, and I'm doing something very stupid now with my friends. We're going to try to save the world. And I didn't know why, but now I know, and if we die doing it, it will be for a good thing, and if we don't, then, well, I'll find you, and I'll be whatever kind of father you need me to be. One who's close and helpful.
Matt: She shushes you. Puts her finger up and shushes you, then steps up and looks at you. The hardness in her face softens, and there is a little bit of tears gathering at the edge of her eyes when she says, "Don't you die. You stay alive."
Sam: I don't intend to. But you know, I was just inside a--
Matt: "You're. Not. Going. To die. You're going to go do your stupid world-saving mission like you told me, and you're going to come back, and we're going to have a lot to talk about."
Sam: All right.
Matt: "All right. Can you do that for me?"
Sam: I promise you. I promise you.
Matt: "I'll hold you to that."
Sam: Well, you do the same, all right? Stay safe. I got you a present. It's a ring. It's a beautiful ring because you're a beautiful girl, and I'd like you to keep it.
Matt: She takes it and looks at it and goes, "Are you sure this wasn't for someone else?"
Sam: No. Never.
Matt: She puts it on.
Sam: And you're also strong, and you'll need this sword. And I give her my Singing Dawn Blade, which has a unique little imperfection at the bottom of it, and I say, this sword has killed a king, which makes it almost worthy enough for you. I hope that it keeps you safe until I can see you again.
Matt: "I don't know what to say. I'll start with thank you. Well, I feel pretty well protected."
Sam: Okay. Get out of here. If you can, try to make your way to Vasselheim. There's three more dragons, and it'll be a while before I kill them all.
Matt: "I don't know, you've done quite a bit of work in even these past few weeks. Vasselheim. I'll talk it over with the doctor. See what he's interested in. You promised."
Sam: Gnome's honor.
Matt: She reaches up and grabs your shirt and gives you a kiss on the forehead. And then pushes you away and says, "Get out of my fucking face." Turns around and walks back towards Dr. Dranzel.
Sam: All right, Pike, I'm done.
Ashley: Okay!
Matt: "But she's not done! You're sticking with us, right?"
Ashley: I don't think I can.
Matt: "Oh, I know. I'm just-- I try."
Ashley: But you guys are headed to-- Where are you headed to? Where are you going to go?
Matt: "I don't know! I figure we can-- based on what we're hearing around here, folks are heading back to Westruun. They probably need some cheering up on the road. From there, who knows? Actually, I've never been to Marquet before, but I'm thinking--" At this point, Kaylie comes up and goes, "Let's have a talk. I'm feeling a bit of religion coming on. Perhaps we should look further west. Northwest. Vasselheim. Not a lot of music in those parts. They'll be willing to pay for that, I assume." He's like, "Vasselheim? It's cold there, isn't it? Let's get some furs." They both start walking away from you guys.
Ashley: Before they go, I just reach out my hand and introduce myself to Kaylie. I've heard many lovely things about you.
Matt: She looks at you guardedly and takes your hand. "As I've heard of you. He made a promise."
Ashley: I'll make sure that he keeps it.
Matt: "Thank you." They keep walking. So, with the money dispersed, the group having a returning sense of hope, with materials, goods, food being redistributed amongst the refugees, it appears there is a direction for the future of Westruun that you've set into place. As you guys gather the rest of your things, Keyleth, you take an evening's rest with the troupe, and the next morning return back to Westruun.
Liam: Something I wanted to do last night. In all the hubbub that's going on in Westruun, I spend some time to find my sister, and I wanted to stealth up on her.
Matt: Easy enough to do while they're out and about taking their rest with the group in Kymal, while you guys are still helping rebuilding. So yes, go ahead and make a stealth check.
Laura: I'm just reading these names on this wall!
Liam: 20.
Matt: What's your passive perception?
Laura: 21.
Sam: Oh, shit!
Matt: You hear a few very, very faint, very familiar steps come across the stones behind you.
Laura: I pretend like I don't hear them.
Liam: Stubby! And I pull her into a big fat hug. Your hair looks like shit, sit down. I start braiding it.
Laura: I love you too.
Liam: Elaina would be proud of you. I'm proud of you.
Laura: That's worth more.
Liam: Saved my life again.
Laura: Did I?
Liam: I crawled out through an arrow hole.
Laura: (laughs) I saw this little lump squirming. I thought it was probably you. Tiny little you.
Liam: There's a bit of chicken here.
Laura: Oh, ow!
Liam: One day at a time, right?
Laura: One day at a time. Ow!
Liam: There.
Matt: All right. As you guys spend the next few days together, forming what is a fairly functional stronghold, for at least the necessary needs of protecting a fair amount of refugees beneath the northern area of Westruun, you feel confident that with the folks that are here and the folks that are coming, there's enough of a community building now where it may not be absolutely necessary for your perpetual oversight and presence, should you have business elsewhere. Anything else you wish to take care of before you continue your journey?
Taliesin: I have a small package and letter that I want to deliver to Kerr before we leave, but other than that.
Sam: A Kerr package?
Taliesin: Yes. I was hoping, I was really hoping, someone would say that.
Laura: I would like to pull Kerr aside and say, you know these people here, they're a bit lost, and they need a leader.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah, they absolutely do. We'll see if we can find them one.
Laura: I'm looking at one that would be wonderful. Just something to think about.
Patrick rothfuss: I've thought about it. But no. But you're very kind. You know, over-- How long has this been going on?
Matt: You're going on the better part of two weeks since the initial dragon attack. A little over two weeks, maybe, by now.
Patrick rothfuss: One thing that I'll make a point of doing is, while a lot of this is going on and I'm seeing what they're really capable of, in terms of reshaping everything, I'll spend a little bit of time at her shoulder. We'll talk, maybe a little bit, or not. Depending on what she's in the mood for. And the general gist of it is, you know, that it takes a long time, doing the stuff like this. You're making something. And sometimes it doesn't seem to balance out that scale very well, but that's all you can do. And sometimes all you can do is be around for people while they make things, because you can't do everything.
Marisha: Well, Kerr, I'm certainly glad that you showed up in my life, in this time, when I am building this-- whatever the hell this is. Thank you.
Taliesin: We've made you something, if you will accept it. We pull out a small wooden box that we put together.
Marisha: I put some Ashari decorative stuff around it.
Matt: So the box itself is wooden, but there is fresh, living ivy curled across it with a few bursts of beautiful red flowers on each side.
Marisha: Totally. What's the flower of Westruun?
Matt: The flower of Westruun would actually be the white iris, which grows around the western side of it.
Marisha: Beautiful. It's covered in white irises.
Taliesin: You sick fuck. You're amazing.
Laura: Oh, the white iris. No big deal. It's the white iris.
Taliesin: Talk Westruun to me.
Patrick rothfuss: I'll--
Sam: Spring snakes!
Taliesin: Too soon! Inside is a scrolled parchment, a wooden bracelet, and a metal circlet. (water bottle falls off the table loudly)
Sam: Spring snakes!
Taliesin: Trying to have a moment, thank you.
Patrick rothfuss: Have I got the first clue?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: The parchment will explain everything and how to use them, but this circlet and this bracelet will help make you a champion that can help protect this city now. And should the need arise, this circlet will give you control of the body of a creature that will help.
Marisha: His name's Fassbender. And he's got an awesome mustache. And the bracelet's kind of just a bracelet, but I made it. It might be a friendship bracelet.
Patrick rothfuss: I'll put that on.
Marisha: It might say "friendship" in Ashari.
Taliesin: The circlet will, if anything, if the need ever arises, it will be something that will help protect the city. The scroll will explain the particulars.
Marisha: If you go up by the funeral pyres, where we set the trap, you'll find him.
Taliesin: I've already moved him.
Marisha: Percy will tell you where he is.
Taliesin: It's in the scroll.
Marisha: Just read the directions.
Matt: As you read the scroll, glance over it, and you may have seen this entity walking in their vicinity once or twice during the time you met them. It is a 12 foot tall stone golem. It is explained in this that with the use of this circlet, you have control over this creature.
Patrick rothfuss: The people of this town are-- you know that they're grateful. The problem is, for some of you, they may not be able to say that in a way that you can hear right now. But know that they are, and know that they will be for a long time. And if I have anything to say about it, it will be a very, very long time. So thank you. Thank you for them, and thank you for me.
Marisha: I give Kerr a big hug.
Patrick rothfuss: Free hug!
Taliesin: I watch awkwardly.
Matt: You do. As you guys break your hug, you look down.
Marisha: I'm going to miss you, Kerr.
Patrick rothfuss: Well.
Marisha: No, it's okay, you don't have to say it back.
Patrick rothfuss: You know where I am. It could be that I will see you before too long. Some of us have more time than others, of course.
Marisha: I'm sure I will see you at some point later.
Matt: As you step away and turn back to the wall, which is mostly done carving with the names and the story bits you and Percy have been working on during this time, that child has returned, and is still drawing with the chalk, and as you look down at the stick figures, you can see one with antlers, two that are smaller than the others, one that is larger than the rest, burlier, thicker around the chest, one that you can barely see, and one that flies across them all on a broom. And then, at the very end, just finishing, one with funny glasses. The kid stands up and looks at it once and goes, "It's done!" And then runs off.
Taliesin: Oh, dear.
Laura: I just take a little piece of chalk and I add Trinket right on the other side.
Matt: Much better drawn than the rest of them.
Laura: Almost perfect. Almost perfect.
Taliesin: I can be right every now and then.
Marisha: I hate you.
Matt: (laughs) So what's your next step?
Sam: We have more Vestiges to get. An airship to steal.
Taliesin: Yes!
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: Please?
Ashley: Vasselheim?
Liam: I have to go to Vasselheim.
Laura: Vasselheim is so far away, and the Feywild is so very close.
Marisha: I have to go to the water tribe of the Ashari.
Travis: The Feywild is close.
Liam: I have to go to Vasselheim now, and I will go on my own if I have to.
Sam: Why?
Taliesin: Oh, that's why.
Matt: You have many avenues at your disposal. You have to come up with some central choice here. There's also Whitestone, which you guys haven't been to in a while yet to check in with anybody. There's definitely where all the Vestiges are currently held. There is all those locations. So what is your next step in the journey?
Marisha: Why do you need to go back to Vasselheim? Right now?
Liam: I'm not done with her.
Ashley: I think I know why he needs to go back to Vasselheim.
Travis: Why?
Ashley: It's not my place to say.
Liam: I have to go now. Whether it's just me-- Pike, I would be grateful if you would go with me.
Laura: Well, I'm going with you, too.
Liam: I don't think that this is somewhere that you can go with me.
Laura: Vasselheim? I've been there.
Liam: Yes, you can go to Vasselheim, but what I have to do there, I don't want you to have any part of it. Just this. Just this one thing.
Laura: Well, then I'll go to Vasselheim and I'll wait outside.
Liam: I need you.
Ashley: I take him and I pull him aside. I know that you've been avoiding me. And I just have to say, I don't know who this-- I don't know who or what this Raven Queen is, and I think that's what scares me the most. But I know if you're choosing a life of faith or whatever you want this to be, I'm happy for you.
Liam: I take her by the hand and I pull her further away. Much further away. Did the others tell you what happened in the tomb? In the sunken tomb?
Ashley: I'm getting bits and pieces.
Liam: I have been avoiding you. Percival-- There was a trap, and Vex'ahlia-- I almost lost Vex'ahlia, and a woman appeared. Not a woman. A god appeared. She appeared, and I did something. I tried to save my sister. I did something stupid. I tried to bargain. I didn't even fucking want the armor that I'm wearing right now! I didn't want it. I don't think I've ever told you how much I admire you.
Ashley: Vax.
Liam: I always have. You have a kindness about you that comes with such ease and honesty. You have always carried a light. Her light. I think, you know, I admire everyone in our band of misfit toys, but you most of all, and when you left, we all noticed its absence. All of us. I think I wanted to find it again for myself. Hers. Your benefactor. I felt Her, and I told myself that when you came back, I was going to come to you and I was going to learn from you, and follow you and follow Her. As soon as you came back. And like so many things that I reach for in this life, it slipped through my fingers, and I've gone and painted myself into a corner. I can't anymore. And I think when I saw you, it was just a reminder of what I lost. I'm sorry for avoiding you.
Ashley: Don't be sorry. I understand now. And I don't think that you're lost in any way. I think if you felt in some way that this is who you've needed to follow, then follow her.
Liam: Well, the bottom line is I couldn't walk away if I wanted to, because I know that I would lose my sister. But I don't want to anymore. We've all been close to death, all of us, and now I'm just a little bit closer. It took me a bit, but maybe we're not meant to be happy. I don't know.
Ashley: I don't think that's true.
Liam: Well, I don't know. But I know that I can be of use.
Ashley: You can be, and you are of use. I'm not the type of person who would ever say that you have to choose and follow who I follow, but I will tell you now that if the Raven Queen fucks with you, or hurts you, or doesn't change you for the better, then she's going to have to deal with me, and we're going to have a problem. But as of right now, I love you, Vax. It is going to be fine, and I am here for you, no matter what, and you can talk to me any time. Don't be ashamed or embarrassed.
Liam: I was. I'm doing better.
Ashley: Okay. Don't be ashamed. And turn that frown upside down.
Liam: It would help if you stayed around.
Ashley: I will do my best. Sometimes people call, and sometimes I just have to go to do work. (laughter)
Ashley: But maybe you'll discover that with the Raven Queen. Maybe she'll take you to jobs and you just have to go.
Sam: Prime Time.
Ashley: But I adore you. Okay?
Liam: I was all kinds of fucked up a couple of weeks ago.
Ashley: Well, you are all kinds of fucked up all the time, and that's why we love you. We're all all kinds of fucked up, and that's why we all are together.
Sam: I walk by, eating chicken and wearing no pants.
Ashley: See? And I give him a slap on his bare ass as he walks by. You okay? You will be.
Liam: Ish.
Ashley: Ish. That's all we can be, is ish. Okay?
Liam: Okay.
Ashley: Okay.
Sam: To the Feywild!
Matt: To where?
Sam: He needs a destination.
Matt: What is your next plan of action?
Liam: I'm going to Vasselheim.
Sam: God damn it. To Vasselheim!
Laura: To Vasselheim, then.
Taliesin: If emo elf is going to Vasselheim, we're going to Vasselheim.
Liam: You can go. I can catch up.
Travis: You can't go by yourself.
Sam: Well, we have the rocks. We could send a rock with him.
Laura: That's fucking stupid. I'm going. I wouldn't let him go to Vasselheim.
Travis: We're all going to Vasselheim.
Taliesin: I have things I can do in Vasselheim.
Liam: It's the only bastion of standing civilization left.
Sam: Is Feywild on the way?
Laura: No.
Marisha: No, it's in the opposite direction. It's south of here.
Matt: The Feywild is ever-present, technically. It's another plane.
Sam: Oh, let's go on the way. It's like on the way, practically.
Laura: No, we know an entrance to the Feywild in the Frostweald.
Matt: There are many doors to the Feywild throughout the world. You just only know one.
Sam: Let's just let Vax go by himself.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: No, there's actually things that can be done in Vasselheim.
Marisha: I pull Vax aside.
Travis: Christ.
Liam: Hey, you had two hours to beat the shit out of a goliath! Sit tight, buddy.
Sam: I pull Kerr aside.
Laura: I pull Grog aside.
Taliesin: I walk away.
Liam: Catch phrase! Catch phrase! Meme! Tweet tweet tweet!
Matt: All right, so. As Keyleth pulls you aside.
Marisha: Do you want to go alone? Do you want to go by yourself? Because if you want to go by yourself, say something, and we'll let you go. If you think this is something you need to do by yourself.
Liam: I'm actually scared shitless, and I would like Pike and you to go with me. I would like my sister not to go anywhere near her. That's what I would like, and that's it. You and Pike.
Marisha: Then say something.
Liam: I did.
Marisha: No, you didn't.
Liam: Hey, I'd like to go to Vasselheim, Pike. Keyleth, can you open up a hole in a tree? We can go quick. Everyone can go to Vasselheim. There's just a specific place in Vasselheim that I need to go. And I love you, but I just don't want you to be a part of it. You either hang out with Grog, or stay outside, okay?
Laura: Fine.
Liam: Okay.
Sam: To Vasselheim!
Marisha: To Vasselheim.
Taliesin: To outside a building in Vasselheim.
Matt: Indeed.
Marisha: To a far wooded area where magic is permissible, outside of Vasselheim.
Matt: Divine magic is permissible. The essence of pulling magic beyond the powers. It's the arcane practitioning that is frowned upon. It's not illegal. It's just generally frowned upon.
Taliesin: It's rude.
Matt: But yes, as you step back to the surface beyond the subterranean personnel bunker that is now the sewage system of Westruun, you find yourself at a nearby tree. The doorway opens, and you all dart through into the cold, snow-dappled, cobbled streets of Vasselheim. And that's where we'll end tonight's game. Picking up next week, at that moment. Thank you guys so much, that was a great session! Dude, Patrick, thank you so much for joining us!
Marisha: Patrick, my new best friend!
Laura: Thanks, Kerr Bear!
Patrick rothfuss: Thanks so much for having me. I've been a fan for a long time. It was a real treat.
Matt: Dude, our pleasure, man. Thanks for coming.
Ashley: As we have been of you.
Marisha: Kerr Bear Share!
Laura: And thanks, Loot Crate!
Matt: And thanks Loot Crate, for deciding to sponsor us again! And thank you guys for being so supportive of us having sponsors now! It's really, really helpful.
Travis: Use the link! Show your Critter power!
Marisha: It makes us feel like we're a grown up show now.
Taliesin: We're a real Twitch stream!
Marisha: We're a real Twitch stream with sponsors!
Patrick rothfuss: Is it gauche if I mention a thing that's going on?
Matt: Yes, please, go for it!
Sam: What are you, a sellout? Come on, man.
Patrick rothfuss: There's a subtle difference between selling and selling out.
Matt: Exactly. You're fine.
Patrick rothfuss: And I'm constantly pushing that border. I run a charity called World Builders, and we raise money to support various charities. We rally the geek community, and right now we're running our midseason fundraiser. It's an Indiegogo with a bunch of cool things that geeks might like. We teamed up with Rat Queens. We're doing a T-shirt for them. If you're a fan of the Dresden Files, we've got a T-shirt based on Harry Dresden and those books. We've got a T-shirt based on my books. We've got, literally, there's 40 items there, a bunch of different cool geekery of various sorts. For those of you that have read The Slow Regard of Silent Things, they pulled off a foxen night light. It looks beautiful. I should've brought the prototype so I could show it to you. I should've brought the prototype, but it turned out so good.
Laura: I'm going to look it up.
Patrick rothfuss: The thing is, it only lasts for four more days. This is just a weeklong fundraiser. You can get coffee, you can get hoodies, you can get a bunch of these things, and all the money goes to charity. If you're interested, swing on by and take a peek at what we've got. If there's any of my people in the Twitch stream, which I'm guessing there are, you can throw a link up there so other people can see it.
Taliesin: What's that web address again?
Patrick rothfuss: If you search on worldbuilders.org, that's our main web page. This fundraiser in particular is happening on Indiegogo.
Laura: Plus there's a link in your Twitter account, right?
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah, I've been talking about it in my Twitter account, and I do occasionally Twitch stream, too, and I throw up the link there as well.
Matt: And what is your Twitter account, just so folks know?
Patrick rothfuss: @patrickrothfuss, just all together.
Matt: Perfect. Fantastic. Thank you guys again, a great session tonight, and yeah. I guess we'll see you guys in a week. Until then, we ask ourselves: Is it Thursday yet? Have a good night, guys!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome, everyone, to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons. We are back after a week hiatus in which we were at San Diego Comic-Con! (cheering)
Matt: We are recovering, some more than others, from Comic-Con. But we had a great time. Fantastic turnout. It was great to meet all those wonderful Critters that got out there, you guys were awesome. The panels were sufficiently ridiculous. And yeah, it was a good time had by all. If you weren't there, I know Geek and Sundry put up the panels, the videos from the panels up on the website, geekandsundry.com, so you can check them out there. Speaking of cool events, we're actually going to be at GenCon next week.
Sam: What?
Matt: I know, it's crazy! I am at a series of panels all throughout the weekend, many of them voiceover-related.
Laura: Because you're special.
Matt: Because my manager got to them first. (laughter)
Matt: We're going to have signings I believe on Friday, or is it Friday or Saturday?
Laura: Saturday.
Matt: Saturday, we'll have signings--
Marisha: In which we have a new poster.
Laura: It is exclusive to GenCon, the same way we did our exclusive for New York Comic-Con poster last year.
Marisha: Also designed by Joma, aka @ForgingMeanings on Twitter. So yeah, it's our next iteration of our box art poster.
Travis: Whoa! It is sexy!
Marisha: The advanced edition, y'all.
Matt: Yeah. I will say that the last poster was based heavily on the Underdark arc and the coming battle with K'Varn. This one has to do with a later arc in the story. So there's that coming up, we're excited about that, and then we have our Critical Role live show that Saturday at 8pm Eastern Time.
Sam: Tickets are still available online, post the link right now in the chat, someone, please. (laughter)
Travis: That's going to be some insane audience.
Matt: We'd love to see you guys. Partially because we don't get out to the middle eastern side of the US as often as we'd like, and this is our first time at GenCon, which has been my gaming mecca for so long. Should be a fun way to roll it in. So come check in the next chapter that'll continue after tonight's episode, at GenCon, and hope to see you there. We have our sponsor tonight for this episode of Critical Role, returning favorite in Backblaze, who previously popped in to say hello. Sam, if you want to say a few words.
Sam: Backblaze is back, everybody. I've already composed a song about it. It goes like this: (singing) Everybody, yeah. Backup your data, yeah. Upload your local files to an encrypted cloud-based backup storage system, yeah. Backblaze back, all right! (speaking) That was good!
Matt: That was a thing that happened.
Sam: Backblaze is unlimited cloud backup for Macs, PCs, for just $5 a month. You can back up your fanart there, your fanfiction, the dirty stuff, photos, videos, drawings, documents, it's everything. I actually use this service. My stuff is continually uploading to the cloud and I always know it's there for when my hard drive crashes, they'll send you a new one in the mail--
Travis: They'll mail you one?
Sam: They can mail you one. It's all kinds of crazy options.
Liam: Think of the gigs of erotica that could just exist out there.
Sam: And Critters get a fully-featured 15-day free trial at backblaze.com/criticalrole. So go check it out, keep that song in the back of your mind when you do. (laughter)
Sam: And they also made a little commercial for us.
Laura: Oh yeah, I just love them so much.
Marisha: I know, it's so great.
Matt: Well cool, thank you very much, Sam.
Sam: Do you want to hear the song again? (groaning)
Travis: Can we please? I'll give you some of my beef and broccoli.
Laura: It smells really good.
Matt: Next item  for anyone who wants any of the information about our GenCon panels events and signings and such, you can go to geekandsundry.com/CRLiveGenCon16.
Laura: That's long. It should be in the chat room.
Matt: Should be in the chat room, check it out, definitely go there. And tonight is the last night for you guys to pre-order the Critter-designed T-shirt, the Chroma Conclave shirt that you guys voted for that won our design contest.
Sam: Twice. It won it twice.
Laura: It's beautiful.
Matt: So if you're interested in grabbing that, tonight's your last night, and you should just do it now. Soon. Do we have anything else we wish to announce, anything else creeping up?
Laura: Travis and I are seeing Hamilton this weekend. What?
Travis: It is an announcement. We're seeing Hamilton on Saturday.
Liam: Is there any other shitty bragging anyone else would like to do?
Travis: Javier Muoz and I are going to be best friends, and then I'm going to go to dinner with George Washington. I'm going to shave his head. It's going to be awesome.
Matt: You have this all planned out.
Laura: Yeah, we really do. He's written some fanfiction about it. You just wait.
Matt: Which you can save on your Backblaze account. (laughter)
Travis: It's there!
Matt: Indeed. All right then, that being the case, let us dive into the insanity of the Feywild in tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back, everybody. So. Getting us into the story for this evening, the backstory of the current episode. Vox Machina, in attempting to find ways to topple and destroy the Chroma Conclave, have found their way around the world seeking items called the Vestiges of Divergence, artifacts of great power that should aid them in their attempt to take down Thordak the Cinder King, the red dragon who now sits lording over the central town of Emon at the center of Tal'Dorei. Their recent journey has brought them into the Feywild, a pseudo-parallel plane of fey magic, chaos, and all sorts of goodness in between. They've wandered through, met an old friend in Nala, the nymph of the lake. Discovered a fantastically artistically talented satyr by the name of Garmelie, and had a trip to the city of Syngorn, the elven city from Tal'Dorei which had phased into this realm for safety when the dragons of the Conclave attacked. After a fateful re-meeting with the parents of Vex and Vax, discussions were had, hats were attempted to be stolen by the leader of the city and successfully done so. The other half of agreements were pseudo-achieved.
Taliesin: Read your contract.
Matt: And they made their way northward through the ever-shifting grasses to the outskirts of the Moonbrush, a heavy, heavy, forested wood that will lead them to their destination after that, which is the Gilded Run, a series of rivers that wrap around their final destination, the Shademirk Bog, where apparently this Vestige exists. So. Diving in where we were. The last time, you guys had managed to wander a few hours into the southern portion of the forest of the Moonbrush. Coming through, you realize that, as opposed to the rest of the Feywild you've encountered so far, which exists in a perpetual dusk, there is an actual starry sky and moonlight poking through of a full moon at portions of the canopy of this forest. Cruising ever forward, you stumbled upon what looked like some sort of a cave or cavern with a series of small stone and wooden trinkets and gifts that were left outside, as well as carved bones and rotting fruits, and you came to realize that these were probably left for the spiritual entity that lived and existed within this cavern. Upon some of these gifts being disturbed, the bear attacked, and Vex'ahlia summoned forth Trinket, her faithful companion bear. A battle took place, putting Trinket in a difficult position, but upon a brief discussion with this spirit bear, had proven himself a worthy entity, and was bestowed a boon, further solidifying the bond between Vex'ahlia and her faithful companion, Trinket. And that was where we left off.
Sam: Didn't you just get some card or something right at the end of--
Laura: Yeah, I did.
Sam: Did we know what it was?
Laura: Yeah, I did.
Taliesin: It was a free $50 coupon for Lyft.
Laura: What I'm really excited about is that card was at the live show, and it is not in my stuff right now, but I did.
Matt: She reaches for the necklace around her neck, which is suddenly not there.
Laura: No! I do, however, still have my title.
Travis: You guys are still by yourselves, right? You two?
Marisha: Are Vex and I still separated?
Matt: No, the trees have relaxed, the canopy has reopened above the small clearing, and the rest of the party, you can now see Vex on her back on the ground, Trinket standing over her towards the cavern, and Keyleth pulled back, looking a bit shocked and confused.
Marisha: And is Oralan still there? Is that his name?
Matt: The bear spirit? The bear spirit, upon passing through Vex and Trinket, then dissipated into a spark of naturalized druidic magic and vanished.
Marisha: So we're alone?
Matt: You are now alone in the center of that clearing.
Sam: Oh my gods, what just happened? (laughter)
Laura: Everything's under control. We're alive.
Sam: I heard growling. Did the bear try to kill you? I mean Trinket.
Laura: No, yeah, Trinket tried to kill me, but don't worry, everything's fine.
Marisha: Really glad you learned how to speak with animals.
Laura: Me too! Keyleth, can you open up the trees so our friends can get in?
Marisha: Who? Our what? Who?
Laura: Aren't we blocked off?
Matt: The trees have laxed and reopened.
Laura: I was busy looking for my card. And I found it. Hi guys, my name is Vex'ahlia. Cool, yes, we're good. Can I search for that tea set that I tried to give him?
Sam: Tea set? What just happened?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Cool. Balls. Off to a good start.
Taliesin: I'd like to take a look in the cave as well a little bit.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: Okay, yeah, it takes you a little bit, about ten minutes or so. Parts of it got scattered and lost amongst the rest of the objects left around, but you manage to reassemble your collection of tea accessories.
Laura: Yeah, cool, it was a golden cursed tea set.
Travis: Nobody else is concerned about the commotion that happened behind the trees, and we're all just like "Hi." What happened?
Laura: There was a big fucking bear. You might actually not want to look in that cave, because it came out of there and it was rather angry when it did.
Liam: What it? What came out?
Laura: A guardian spirit of the forest.
Taliesin: Just observing the entrance to see if there's anything written, any type of language on any of the entrances or otherwise.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: As a druid would I know about guardian animal spirits?
Laura: Yeah, would we have heard anything about this in our studies?
Matt: In your studies? No. You, make a history check.
Marisha: That's not my strong suit, man.
Matt: We'll go with nature.
Marisha: Oh that's better, okay. 23.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: There are no markings that currently are visible around the entrance or exit of the cavern itself. It is carved, however, meaning that this cavern, whether it be natural or not, this entrance has been touched by humanoid hands and has been refined. You, Keyleth, do know that occasionally on the Material Plane there are entities, spiritual energies, that gather based on worshipping specific fey spirits and these creatures over time, these spiritual energies, begin to take the form that their worshipers give them. It takes a long time for this transition to happen, and essentially these guardian spirits, usually guarding some sort of a powerful fane, or a magical core or center, they become protector spirits of that region.
Marisha: So because people just manifested the god as a bear, it slowly turned into a bear?
Matt: It turned into a bear. And they're not gods per se, but they're powerful entities that guard that element.
Marisha: Spirit guardians. Okay.
Travis: What's in the cave?
Laura: What's in the cave, Keyleth?
Marisha: Nothing now, I don't think.
Laura: There was a spirit bear in there.
Liam: It was a bear?
Laura: It was a big fucking bear, yeah.
Marisha: It was made out of stars and space stuff.
Travis: Are you sure you haven't been eating mushrooms or something?
Laura: Trinket popped out and he saved us. Trinket fucking saved us, Scanlan!
Sam: Pics or it didn't happen. (laughter)
Travis: That's exactly what I was thinking.
Liam: I go over to Trinket and I surreptitiously start feeding him biscuits-- you don't know-- biscuits that I took from my father's house. Good boy, that's a good boy. Good job.
Matt: They're gone in a matter of moments. Licks the side of your face, leaving some saliva and crumbs.
Liam: I will always give you that shit. Don't forget.
Marisha: Percy, did you find anything in the cave?
Taliesin: Nothing of consequence.
Travis: How far in did you go?
Taliesin: No, that looks dark and there was a giant cosmic bear in there.
Marisha: Would I know if after the spirit guardian has passed, would he just go back in his cave?
Matt: You don't know that much about the entity. You've never really encountered one before, you've only heard about them.
Laura: What about Garmelie. Would he know?
Matt: You're welcome to ask him if you want to.
Laura: Hey, Garmelie. What do you know about this fucking bear?
Matt: He's in the very back, just watching you guys. "I know what you know. It's apparently here and people leave him little presents, and seemed pretty scary from the way you describe him, so--"
Travis: Did you know he was going to be here at this cave?
Matt: "No, I would have avoided this!"
Travis: Somebody insight check that little bastard.
Laura: Yeah, I'll insight check that little bastard.
Matt: Roll insight.
Travis: I would do it, but eh.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18? He seems like he's telling the truth. He's hard to read in general because he's such a strange individual, but yeah.
Laura: I feel like he would've told us to avoid it.
Marisha: And bears are fairly territorial. I don't know, it might be wise to stay out of the cave.
Taliesin: I think in general it's probably best to respect anything's home on this plane of existence.
Travis: Boring. Scanlan, you want to go in?
Sam: If you do.
Liam: We're not here to go spelunking. Why are we going to go in this cave?
Travis: Oh my god, we're in the Feywild, we're about to pull a bow out of a tree, and you don't want to see what's in the creepy cave.
Laura: Maybe we should save our strength for the fucking bow in the tree.
Liam: Plus, do you know there's a theater here?
Matt: "We're not going to the theater."
Liam: I understand, but just so we don't accidentally go there, where is it in relation to this tree? Is it on the way?
Matt: "I couldn't tell you. Certain things move. Shift. Change location."
Sam: It's a touring production.
Liam: I don't trust anyone who doesn't like the theater. What exactly is your issue with it?
Matt: "Don't worry about it. Anyway. Shall we?" And he begins marching back.
Laura: I really don't think we should mess with this thing.
Marisha: Look, Grog, I touched a flower and the whole realm almost collapsed, okay? I don't know.
Travis: I know, I'm looking at the scandalous one over there that's always trying to get little goodies for himself.
Taliesin: I'm not feeling this one. I don't know. What can I tell you? I normally like to gamble and I'm not feeling a gamble on this one.
Travis: All right, you went (boop). I'm just saying.
Taliesin: It's just not pretty enough. It's really not pretty enough. We've already won something here.
Travis: All right, fine. I'm happy.
Sam: I'm one hundred percent behind any decision you made or make, by the way. You say "go," we go. You say "stay," we stay.
Travis: What if we run, touch the back of the cave, run back. We don't even have to pick up anything. Just to say we did it.
Marisha: Last time I touched something, I didn't hear the end of it. And now we're just going to let this happen?
Taliesin: Well, yes, because we don't care if they die.
Travis: What, all the bad shit already came out of it, what do you say?
Sam: By that logic, mathematically there's no more bad shit in there.
Taliesin: Is there anybody here of reasonable intelligence who wants to stop this from happening? Just checking.
Liam: I don't think that we should do anything. It does seem like a bit of a double standard that everybody threw poo at Keyleth for picking a flower.
Taliesin: (deadpan) Please, whatever you do, don't do it, my god please.
Travis: I know, he's got the raised eyebrows. I'm not sure if we should do it or not.
Matt: I'm just enjoying the conversation. Make your choices.
Marisha: You do you, man. You do you, guys.
Taliesin: If you're going to do it, have a light source.
Travis: What, ten or higher we go?
Sam: Ten or higher we go.
Travis: Natural 20.
Sam: (laughing) We're so going.
Travis: I put Scanlan on my back, and we run straight into the cave.
Taliesin: I hand a torch.
Travis: I don't want any torch. I've got darkvision!
Matt: They go darting into the cave, vanishing into the shadows and out of sight. The two of you continue for about 30, 40, 50, 60 feet. Thankfully, both of you have darkvision, so you can see pretty well in this area. You can see what are a number of alcoves that are carved into the sides of the rock here that contain extinguished candles, sometimes clusters of them, that are left in here in some sort of ceremonial way, but have just burned out or not been lit in a long time. It goes straight back; there's no curvature or natural change in the path of this cavern. You get about 100 feet into the foot of this spire-like mountain, one of many that protrude from the center of the Moonbrush, and the chamber widens and comes to an end, a circular pocket at the end, about maybe 40 feet across on each side. The floor of this room is entirely covered in unlit candles, except for in the center there is a raised stone platform that contains a singular skull made of some sort of a bluish or aquamarine crystal.
Sam: That's not what I was expecting.
Travis: Jackpot.
Sam: Jackpot?
Travis: We are the greatest ones in the group. Are the candles standing up or are they laying over?
Matt: They're standing up.
Sam: We can't take the skull.
Matt: It's a large skull, it's like this big, and its elongated snout--
Sam: Oh, it's an animal skull.
Matt: It's a beast-like skull.
Taliesin: Is it a bear skull?
Travis: We have not said anything to the rest of the group.
Taliesin: Oh, I thought they were saying this out loud.
Sam: Can I discern what kind of animal skull it is?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Travis: Can I do one, as well?
Matt: Sure. Yeah, you would. Yeah, as a traveling herd member, you would know cleaning creatures and stuff.
Sam: Eight.
Matt: You have no idea what creature this is. It does look bestial in nature.
Liam: Are you dead yet?
Sam: Still alive. Everything's okay. It's all gold and silver.
Travis: Yeah, there's nothing that moves in here.
Marisha: Keyleth talks to the rest who stayed out. Okay, Percy, do you have an hourglass thing?
Taliesin: No, but I can keep very good count, though.
Marisha: We should play that gambling game.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: Okay. I bet-- how much gold do I have?
Laura: How much gold do you have?
Marisha: Three gold.
Laura: That's it?
Taliesin: We keep taking it from her.
Marisha: That's true. That we have to run in after and save them.
Liam: I don't want to take that bet.
Marisha: You're going to take that bet?
Liam: No, I don't want to take that bet because I agree with you.
Taliesin: I'll take that bet. I'll take a three-gold bet.
Marisha: Okay. That they come out safe and sound?
Taliesin: 200 seconds.
Marisha: 200 seconds. All right.
Matt: Meanwhile, inside the cave, the two of you now stand at the edge of this room filled with small, wax structures and wicks that are currently cold in the darkness, and the central platform holding the crystalline skull in the center.
Travis: In that circular area, is there anything on the back wall? More candle sconces?
Matt: You can't make out any details. It looks like somewhat rough cavern walls, but not very smoothly carved or anything.
Travis: And the skull is big, like the size of my chest?
Matt: It's probably a little bit smaller than that.
Sam: Made of gems or stone or bone?
Matt: It looks almost like it was carved and hollowed from a singular giant solid piece of opal or aquamarine. Like it's a gemmed skull in the sense that it's made from gem material.
Travis: Does it look like it could have been a bear skull?
Matt: You don't know, mister nature-roll-of-12.
Sam: Oh god.
Travis: Well.
Sam: Listen, Grog. I don't think it's very valuable.
Travis: No, but look at it!
Sam: It's pretty amazing.
Travis: We're in a secret chamber.
Sam: This is cool. But what would we do with it? We can't trade it.
Travis: I bet they worshiped it.
Sam: I bet something still worships it. And that thing could come back and be mad if we take it.
Travis: Are there a crapload of footprints on the ground around us?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: 13.
Matt: It's hard to tell. You've arrived, both paced in your space there, so there are plenty of footprints that you guys have left. It's hard to see if there are any more recent ones are from other creatures.
Travis: Want to take a candle as a souvenir?
Sam: I wouldn't mind getting a closer look at that skull.
Travis: Yeah. Well, let's do that, then.
Liam: 100 seconds have gone by.
Sam: We can't walk over there without disturbing candles, right?
Matt: Probably not, unless you're ballet-style en pointe.
Travis: I can throw you. Taking it back to the old school. That's a little careless.
Sam: I can grab it. I do have a big hand.
Travis: That's like getting your hand on it right away. It's pushing the button.
Sam: What do we do? Do we just leave and come up with a good story?
Travis: Ooh. Yeah.
Sam: Okay. Here, how about this  let me cut your face.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: When we run out, you'll be bleeding and crying, and it'll be horrible. And we'll just make something up.
Travis: Okay. (laughing) Perfect. Are you ready to go?
Sam: Yeah. Yeah, sure.
Travis: We take off-- wait, you've got to cut me. Wait, where are you going to cut me?
Sam: Right above the eyebrow so there's lots of blood, yeah.
Travis: Yeah, right in the middle, like the Bruce Willis cut. Okay.
Matt: Ah, Sir Bruce Willis of Emon. Dangerous life he led in history.
Travis: But not too deep, right? I want to be able to still make the ladies swoon.
Sam: Okay, cool. I'll take out my-- not Mythcarver.
Travis: Why not? You were going to cut me with a Vestige?
Liam: You're going to roll a 20 and decapitate him.
Sam: I take out my other longsword. My Aberration Bane longsword.
Matt: (laughing) Are you an aberration?
Sam: I'll slice him right over one of the eyebrows.
Matt: Okay. You take one point of damage, and the goliath blood doth flow aplenty.
Travis: (grunting) Are you ready? Let's sell this shit. And I put him on my back and we take off running! (yelling) Oh, it's horrible!
Sam: (yelling) There are bears everywhere! Bears! Little bears, big bears!
Travis: We burst out into the sunlight, and I intentionally trip and eat shit. Scanlan goes flying, boom!
Sam: There was a bear right on Grog!
Travis: Oh my god! It was so vicious.
Sam: It was horrible.
Laura: You didn't fight them at all?
Travis: No, there were bodies everywhere! Children! Women! They were stapled to the ceiling! And then there were just horrible--
Marisha: So did the bear only have one claw?
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: This guy wants to go to the theater.
Travis: 15.
Matt: I'll have the rest of you roll an insight check.
Marisha: This is the lucky one.
Liam: Oh man, that sounds scary.
Laura: 23.
Marisha: 27.
Taliesin: Nine.
Sam: I was in the mouth of a bear, and Grog cut the thing from asshole to lips to get me out of there. It was crazy!
Laura: That's disgusting. So there was really nothing there?
Marisha: I think that means you owe me three gold, Percy.
Taliesin: (sighing) Oh, bloody hell.
Sam: Did you bet to see whether we would live or die?
Taliesin: No, not at all.
Laura: What did you really find in there?
Sam: Some candles.
Laura: Yeah?
Travis: And a big skull.
Sam: Big skull. A gemmed skull. Not gemmed. A gem-like skull. Not diamonds, not rubies. Opal. Something.
Travis: We reached out to touch it and it cut my face.
Laura: That sounds terrible. I wish Pike was here; she would really enjoy this story.
Sam: It was a worthless endeavor. We're sorry we went.
Liam: Hey, how about that Chroma Conclave, eh?
Taliesin: Wait, so the candles and skulls were there, or they weren't there?
Travis: Yeah, there were a ton of candles and a skull.
Sam: Seems like a place of worship or devotion, and we didn't want to mess with it.
Marisha: Well a lot of these spirit guardians tend to have worshipers, and a lot of times they'll bring them gifts, so that makes sense. Yeah, I probably should have told you guys that before you went in, sorry.
Travis: There's only one show in a day; we don't want to miss it.
Laura: I like how all of us sound like we've lost our voice.
Marisha: Yeah, it sounds like we've all been through hell. Okay.
Travis: Well, since I touched the skull and I cut myself, could you do me a little. (clicks tongue)
Laura: You want me to lick it?
Travis: No, don't you have a thing?
Laura: Like healing? Like you want me to use a whole spell on this teensy-ass wuss cut?
Travis: If you care about me.
Laura: I cast Cure Wounds on his little teeny-weeny cut.
Travis: Oh, that feels so much better.
Sam: Vex, what do you think, is a semi-precious gemstone skull worth going in and getting?
Laura: I think we should remember this place is-- well, it's probably going to disappear after we walk away. These things tend to move, don't they?
Liam: We should move toward our destination.
Laura: We need to focus on the bow. And it's really hard to say that, but I really--
Taliesin: The whole theory of a path is you're supposed to somewhat stay on it, I imagine.
Laura: So stay on it.
Liam: No more stops. Unless it's for the theater, we're not stopping again.
Sam: What time is it?
Matt: From what you can tell, it looks like it's in the evening, with the moon up.
Sam: And we've been awake for a while?
Matt: Full journey here since you rested... make an intelligence check.
Sam: Natural 20, except disadvantage because I'm exhausted. 16 plus two.
Matt: Okay. After resting just outside of the Moonbrush, it's probably been three hours since you woke.
Sam: Oh.
Travis: We're good.
Laura: Oh, we rested?
Matt: Did you guys push on when you got there?
Liam: I was wondering the same thing.
Marisha: I thought we camped on the outskirts.
Taliesin: Whatever we decide right now is exactly what happened.
Marisha: Right, so we camped and we got up, right?
Taliesin: Yes. What? Yes, of course.
Travis: I agree.
Matt: I feel like there would have camping before going straight into the Moonbrush, and I think you may have been pressed for time at the event last time to try and do that.
Sam: All I know is my mansion spell has been ticked off. So I used it at least once in the last 47 hours.
Marisha: Yeah, I feel like we camped out right before we went into the Moonbrush.
Taliesin: We camped out right before that.
Matt: Right, so it's been a few hours since you regained consciousness. It wouldn't have made a huge difference, per se, but you were still reading the book. You're close now, at this point.
Sam: Yeah, I'm close.
Matt: A handful of hours away from completing it.
Laura: So I can take off this negative seven hit points that I don't even remember how I got, probably.
Matt: Actually, that you would have gotten from the large bear, so no.
Laura: You're right.
Matt: Nice try. All right, so as you guys gather here, Garmelie goes, "All right, so duskward is-- that way. Who's leading?"
Taliesin: You are.
Matt: "Oh, I'm not leading. I'm guiding you."
Laura: You guide. In the front.
Matt: "I'm guiding you duskward. I've never been inside the Moonbrush! I know of things around it."
Laura: How were you planning to guide us through it if you don't even know how to do it?
Sam: He was just going to get us to the outskirts. That was always the plan.
Matt: "I'm getting you to your destination by helping guide you there."
Marisha: But if you can't guide us through the Moonbrush--
Matt: "I am guiding you through the Moonbrush, I just think somebody should take the lead."
Marisha: But you said you've never been here.
Taliesin: He wants something big in the front.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm just wondering what his use will be from here on out.
Laura: How about you and I, we can be in the front.
Liam: She's Duchess of the Grape Hunt so she's very good to lead.
Matt: "Great, wondrous. That'll work fine."
Laura: Duchess of the Grape Hunt, what a wonderful title.
Marisha: Hang on a second, Garmelie. Huddle real quick. Why don't we send him home? He could die.
Taliesin: I'm all right with that.
Marisha: He's not going to be any use from here on out. He's never been here.
Sam: He knows things about the Feywild that we don't know.
Laura: The only thing I worry about is we made a deal with him.
Taliesin: He's under contract, which means that there are places and things he might be able to help us with.
Laura: He shook our hand.
Travis: Yeah, it couldn't hurt.
Taliesin: It's worth having him.
Sam: Also, if it turns out he's not who he says he is--
Marisha: Which I'm starting to get a very strong feeling of.
Sam: We'll find out who he really is later.
Liam: He's a bit of a sneak, too. The only reason we have him is because you spotted him because you're awesome.
Travis: And he wanted a hat, how bad could he honestly be?
Laura: Right? It looks very good on him.
Taliesin: I feel like hats are almost a traditional sign of something a little iffy. Present company included, of course.
Marisha: We got betrayed by Clarota at the 11th hour, so--
Liam: We're so much cooler now.
Sam: All right, let's just put Vex and Vax.
Laura: Hold my hand, dear?
Matt: "All right." He takes your hand. Roll a survival check.
Liam: He eats her hand.
Laura: 17.
Matt: 17, okay. Holding your hand, you guys quietly begin to make your way through the Moonbrush.
Laura: Eyes out for any things.
Matt: You're in your natural element, also. It's a forest.
Sam: Grog, can I ride on you?
Travis: Girl, you can always ride.
Sam: Yeah, I just need to be reading.
Matt: Much like a kid in the backseat of a car on a cell phone, Scanlan is just reading through the book on the back of Grog.
Marisha: Station wagon. Facing backwards.
Laura: You can always ride on Trinket, too, Scanlan.
Sam: No. Grog weirdly smells better than Trinket today.
Matt: About another two hours of travel duskward, and he's keeping a finger pointed in the direction, which is difficult for you because the moon placement in the sky has not changed. The correlation as to what you normally use in the Prime Material Plane to gauge direction has no use here whatsoever. So the best that you can do is try to keep yourself facing forward and using his occasional guidance to steer back on track.
Laura: I'm going to try to learn from him how he's gauging his surroundings and stuff.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21. He seems to, every single time he checks for the direction, lick his finger and then point. There's nothing more to it than that. He'll take a moment to think and look around, lick his finger, point in a direction.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to see if I feel a breeze at all, or is he bullshitting?
Liam: Are they way ahead of us or are they just up ahead?
Marisha: 16.
Matt: There is no breeze. There is no sound in the forest here. There is no sound of leaves clattering. He's just doing that.
Marisha: Because it makes him seem smart.
Laura: What does the licking do?
Matt: "Licking is how I initiate the specialization of my arcane understanding of the flow and ebb of the fey--"
Laura: You're bullshitting.
Matt: "No! This is a technique. And it's leading us to your destination. Have a little faith. You hired me for a reason."
Laura: So much faith in you.
Liam: Is he taking us to the theater right now?
Laura: Definitely the theater.
Matt: "Not the theater!" Pressing on, I want you to make another survival check.
Laura: Natural 20. And I don't even need to roll again.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: As we go, I just want to Druidcraft little green pebbles. No, let's do brighter-- red pebbles to start leaving behind Hansel and Gretel style.
Travis: Lead something right to us.
Marisha: Little pebbles. Tiny pebbles that I can recognize.
Matt: Okay, so you're creating small stones that trail behind you as you go.
Marisha: Every hundred feet or so.
Matt: As you guys progress forward, you start finding patches where the ground itself gets a little mushier, like either there's a nearby river or the ground itself has retained liquid more than other areas of the forest. You begin to see the faint appearance of familiar green sprouts that come through. These are mandrakes, and you manage to catch them before the rest of the party gets there, you and Garmelie, especially with your sight and knowledge of this area, you manage to guide the party around that whole field of waiting mandrake.
Laura: What do they do? Do they just scream a lot?
Matt: You don't know. You may find out yet. Progressing forward into the next section, I need you to make another survival check.
Laura: Oh no. 12. Oh, double-double! That's better! 25.
Matt: 25! Shit, girl. Eventually, you come to what appears to be a river that's cutting through this portion of the Moonbrush. Just on the other side of that river, you hear a faint sound of music.
Marisha: The theater!
Laura: (whispering) What is that?
Matt: "What is what? I don't--"
Laura: The music, do you hear it?
Matt: "No?"
Travis: Hold on, are you saying you don't hear anything right now?
Matt: Actually, right now nobody hears it except for you.
Laura: What does it sound like?
Matt: It sounds like a soft violin, with a hint of flute, and a drum beat. It's very simple. It's very basic.
Laura: Does it sound pleasant?
Matt: It does sound pleasant. It sounds folksy and whimsical. It's very, very faint.
Laura: There must be people further in.
Sam: You hear music?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Could be dangerous.
Sam: Can I listen?
Matt: The rest of you guys, as you gather up, you begin to hear the sound and so does Garmelie. Garmelie's like, "We really don't need to go in that direction."
Laura: Do you know anything about music playing randomly in the woods?
Matt: "Music can be good, it can be bad. Who knows? Dangerous music is very often a thing in places you don't understand. I would not recommend wandering into places of phantom music."
Travis: We should check it out.
Sam: I want to hear some music.
Laura: What direction is it coming from?
Matt: You take a few steps. There is still a river, which is about 15 feet across. It's a soggy bank that leads into a lazily running river. So you have to cross that first. It looks to be a little ways duskward and to your right.
Travis: Have to cross the river.
Liam: We don't need to stick a stick into every beehive we come across.
Sam: But this is the theater.
Liam: Is it the theater?
Taliesin: We don't know actually know. It could be anything.
Laura: It could also be a camp.
Taliesin: It could be many things.
Sam: Do I recognize the music?
Matt: You don't, actually. It's not a classic ditty. The structures are familiar. You can see where the basis of a lot of bar shanties come from; a similar bouncing beat to it, but nothing that catches you as really familiar.
Laura: (whispered) Ugh. I want to see what it is that's doing it, though.
Travis: Right, but we got to cross this river to get to it.
Laura: We have to do it regardless, yes.
Marisha: How big is the river?
Matt: 15 feet across.
Sam: It's a stream. It's nothing.
Travis: He said it's lazy, right? It's just going along, but I call bullshit 'cause we're in the Feywild.
Taliesin: You're very clever about that.
Liam: You said we have to get across, regardless, Garmelie?
Matt: "Well, yes, if we're heading toward your destination, we have to cross."
Marisha: We have to get across the river, regardless?
Sam: Can you make us a bridge, Keyleth?
Marisha: I can control water and part the river for a second.
Sam: Well, that's even better.
Laura: For a hot second?
Marisha: For a hot second, yeah, I was trying to stop myself. I cast Control Water and make us a little bubble as we walk.
Matt: Okay. So you watch as the stream begins to separate--
Marisha: I don't want to Moses this, I want to give us a little bubble that we stealthily walk under the river with the little bubble.
Matt: You guys find your way, walking down onto the bank of the river, your boots sinking into the very soft, soggy bottom of the river. You walk across, make your way to the other side. The river splashes as the bubble is no longer required. You traverse it; no issue. It's a river. The music is a little louder on this side of the bank and is off to the right side.
Sam: Should we send Vax ahead?
Liam: I don't think it's a good idea but if we're going to check it out you and I should go ahead. Yeah, let's go.
Laura: Garmelie? Do you want to come with us? Go invisible?
Matt: "Um. Okay?"
Laura: I will hold your hand, don't worry dear.
Matt: "All right." So he vanishes from sight. The two of you guys make your stealth checks.
Laura: Oh, can I cast Pass Without a Trace on us?
Matt: If you want to.
Laura: I'm going to do that.
Liam: All right.
Matt: All right, so adding plus ten to your stealth rolls.
Liam: 39.
Laura: Whoa. 28.
Matt: All right. The rest of you are staying behind.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So you two and Garmelie make your way upwards, pushing past bushes, and the trees here in the Moonbrush, which are getting thicker and thicker the further north you go. You hear the music getting louder and louder, and it's funny. You find yourself tapping the side of your leg to it. It's a nice beat. You begin to hear laughter. Sounds like jovial laughter, like people having a good time. Just a few voices. You hear two different voices going back and forth, laughing.
Liam: Our mother read us stories about shit like this.
Laura: Did she?
Liam: Yes, she did.
Laura: I don't remember.
Liam: Fairies. Grumpkins. I don't know. It's probably going to end badly. Do you want to go have a look?
Laura: I just wanted to see, but if you're worried about it, we don't have to.
Sam: Oi! You lot! I just had a thought.
Liam: Why start now?
Sam: If there's music, there could be some sort of charm effect.
Laura: Oh.
Sam: Would you like me to come with and maybe counter that charm effect?
Marisha: The bard is just now figuring this out?
Laura: Get on up here, you stealthy fuck.
Sam: All right, I put down my book and hop off of Grog and go up there.
Marisha: I sit down with Percy.
Laura: Add ten to it because of Pass Without a Trace.
Sam: I don't think you cast it on me, did you?
Laura: I cast it on everybody that's within 30 feet of me.
Sam: Am I there yet? I'm exhausted.
Matt: Yeah, it's at disadvantage.
Sam: Same. What is it?
Taliesin: Stealth. Plus ten.
Sam: Oh! Hey, that's 18! That's not bad.
Laura: Would have been eight?! Jesus.
Marisha: I sit down with Percy and I say  six gold that after 200 seconds, they run out screaming again.
Sam: Can I be doing Countercharm? Can I hum a little tune? Is that how it works? I don't know how it works!
Matt: Well, it's time for you to learn how one of your abilities works here, Sam. For countercharm: as an action, you set up a performance that lasts until the end of your next turn. During that time, you and any friendly creature--
Sam: It lasts six seconds?!
Matt: Hold on. You can keep doing it every round if you want to. It doesn't say there's a limit to it.
Sam: All right. I'll keep humming.
Matt: They have to hear you to be affected by it. It has to be loud enough for them to hear you.
Sam: Sure. I'll hum loudly.
Liam: You want to break our stealth?
Matt: It's going to happen.
Sam: Shit.
Matt: Yeah, one way or the other. You've got countercharm or keeping stealthed.
Laura: Aw, fuck.
Sam: We'll stealth, and if it starts to feel icky, then I'll do it.
Laura: Okay. All right. I basically just want to see what the fuck is laughing. I want to see what it is.
Liam: If I do not see a mummer's show from this, there will be hell to pay. Now let's go.
Matt: So the three of you and Garmelie, who's invisible at this point in time, you approach what looks to be a clearing ahead of you now. The trees actually disperse a bit. You can see what appears to be a small campfire that's crackling in the center of this clearing. And the music is actually quite loud now. You see figures jaunting around this fire and holding hands and swirling for a second and then separating. Then dancing a little ways around it again.
Laura: What kind of figures?
Matt: You have to get closer.
Laura: Fuck! Fuck this. Fuck it. I'm not doing it.
Liam: I will go closer.
Laura: No. Don't fucking go closer. I get a really bad feeling. All of a sudden, I get a really bad feeling about this.
Liam: 39 stealth.
Laura: I'm behind a tree.
Matt: You're behind a tree. Garmelie is staying with you. What are you doing?
Sam: Can I sing to him through the earring? No, we talked about that before.
Matt: No, the effect has to be within hearing, so either you go up with him or you stay behind.
Sam: I'm going to stay behind.
Matt: Okay. So Vax, you come up to the very edge of the clearing. You vanish. You come to the very edge of the clearing. You see before you where the laughter's coming from. There is an elf, in full Verdant Guard armor of Syngorn, who is skipping and laughing around the fire, dancing alongside what appears to be a bipedal humanoid creature covered in fur with claws, a longer snout. And they are both smiling and holding each other's hands and spinning and twirling each other. And dancing around.
Laura: They're totally charmed.
Matt: You see the music is actually coming from a floating spectral violin, flute and drum, unmanned by any creature; just slowly drifting around the clearing, around the entities that are dancing. I also need you to make a wisdom saving throw.
Marisha: Ah, there it is!
Laura: Oh, jeez! Is it a charm effect?
Liam: Yeah, is it? Because I have advantage if it's a charm effect.
Matt: You do.
Liam: And I'll use one Luck for the day. First Luck. All right. 17.
Matt: 17. Okay. Looking forward, you find a tapping on the side of your hip as the beat finds you. And you begin to drift out of the shadows into the center of this clearing. You look over and see as the guard extends his hand and takes yours. The beat kicks into you, a smile creeps across your face--
Laura: I take my broom out and I start flying up and I grab Scanlan's hand and take him on the broom with me.
Sam: Where we going?
Laura: We're going to fucking get Vax out of there.
Sam: I start singing.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Countercharm. (jazzy saxophone riff)
Matt: The gentle sounds of Careless Whisper keeping any possible invasion of your mind at bay, hopefully. You just hear Garmelie behind you going "No! What are you doing?!" echoing through the trees as you guys dart in towards the center of this camp. You--
Liam: I'm on, man. I'm lit.
Matt: You are totally on. This is an amazing experience. You feel the color and the music surging through you, and all through this endless surge of energy inside as you begin to now join into this other dancing trio.
Liam: Fucking werewolf guy look good.
Matt: Yeah. You guys dart into the center of this, hearing the music, hearing the laughter, watching your brother with a Joker-like smile on his face, the sheer joy pulling his expression into one of a very disturbing joy. I need both of you guys to make wisdom saving throws with advantage.
Liam: Oh dear.
Taliesin: Advantage versus magic.
Sam: Yeah, I already had advantage.
Taliesin: Well, there you go.
Sam: 13.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23? All right. You sweep in at this point, and find that Scanlan jumps off the broom.
Laura: No! Don't jump off the broom!
Matt: You tumble down. Make an athletics check. Acrobatics.
Sam: Save? Check? Ten. Check or save?
Matt: Check.
Sam: Ten.
Matt: Okay. You catch yourself. It wasn't a large fall. You land on your feet down on the ground with a crunch. A number of things crunch and break beneath your feet as you stand up and you look up and see as Vax, this elvish warrior knight, and a straight-up wolfman all lead you into the dance, and the four of you now begin to take each other's hands and laugh and skip around in a circle.
Laura: I'm going to try to Pokball Vax into my necklace.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to try to do that.
Taliesin: I'm hearing this cacophony, and I'm slowly getting up with a sigh and moving in the direction of the campsite.
Marisha: You might have won this bet this time, Percy.
Laura: Not yet!
Taliesin: Slow walk. You've got time.
Marisha: I'm holding onto my six gold.
Laura: You have to make a wisdom saving throw against me.
Liam: Okay.
Laura: Why'd you roll twice?
Liam: Because I have advantage against charm.
Laura: It's not charm! It was just wisdom.
Liam: Oh, then I rolled shit. It's just a five.
Laura: Then he goes in the Pokball!
Matt: You are pulled into the necklace. I'm really going to push to refer to it as a necklace.
Laura: Sorry, necklace. The Raven's Slumber necklace.
Matt: I'm going to really push to have it be called a necklace. Vax, all of a sudden you're pulled out of this dance, and your head is clouded for a second as you find yourself in a singular darkened stone room. Four walls, a single stone throne in the center of it facing out towards a glass window the size of the other walls. It shows an image of the perspective of the necklace.
Liam: First conscious person to go in here.
Matt: Second, technically.
Marisha: Second to Grog.
Liam: Grog was unconscious.
Travis: No, I wasn't.
Sam: He was very close to death.
Laura: Can I grab Scanlan?
Matt: You can.
Sam: I'm doing the Russian Bottle Dance from Fiddler on the Roof right now.
Matt: It's fantastic.
Laura: I want to fly down and get him around the waist and pull him out.
Matt: Make an athletics check. I need you to make an acrobatics check.
Sam: Check?
Matt: Yes, so roll and add your acrobatics with disadvantage.
Sam: 11.
Laura: Athletics?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Oh, that's strength, isn't it? Oh, sorry. 17.
Matt: 17. You manage to grab Scanlan, pull him onto the broom with you. The two other dancers immediately reach up and grab him and try to pull him back down into it. At this point, you look into their faces and you can see, while they have smiles on them, their eyes are fearful and desperate, their bodies are emaciated and exhausted. They both look like their physical bodies are on the edge of collapse from nonstop dancing for god knows how long. You glance down at the ground around you, and you can see numerous piles of broken bones and discarded armor. All order of other creatures that have befallen this spot amongst the forest and never left. They're pulling against you. We're making opposed strength checks. Go ahead and roll.
Marisha: Come on, Vex.
Laura: Fuck. I'm so weak, you guys.
Matt: So are they right now, though. They're heavily emaciated.
Laura: Just a regular strength check? It's not a saving throw?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: 11.
Matt: 11. You feel as Scanlan, who was shoving off of you instinctually and both of these bodies grabbing his legs and pulling him down off the broom, he is pulled from your grasp, hits the ground, and the three of them continue their dance, completely nonchalant. Not even paying attention to your presence at this point.
Laura: I fly away. Minor problem. It was really a very bad idea to go towards the music. However, Scanlan's enchanted, and we should probably save him because it looks like a lot of people have also been enchanted and are stuck there forever. If you're going to come and try to save him, plug your fucking ears, because I have a feeling this music is cursed. And I start shoving shit in my ears.
Taliesin: Keyleth, can you Druidcraft some cotton?
Marisha: Sure. You owe me six gold.
Taliesin: No, we're going to save them. You owe me six gold.
Marisha: But she's running back out screaming! Three and three, we split the gold three-three. It was a draw.
Taliesin: Vex, could you go fetch a pail of water?
Marisha: Wait, hang on. How about this, you guys... I believe, as an elemental, I'm immune to charm effects.
Laura: Well, then fucking get in there and help him.
Sam: You should do more than believe that. You should probably know that.
Laura: Maybe be an elemental and shove some shit in your ears.
Travis: If I got into a rage, I can't be charmed.
Marisha: That's true!
Taliesin: There's nothing to be done about that. It's a campsite, correct? I'm going to start wandering until at least I have a sense of the size of it.
Marisha: You're right. I Druidcraft the cotton.
Matt: All right, cool. You guys all make your way back towards the direction of this little opening, this gap in this grove.
Laura: I'm going to let him out of the Pokball before we get him out!
Sam: There seems to be some distortion going on. I'm doing that thing with the wolfman where I'm miming a lasso and pulling him closer to me to dance closer.
Matt: Sure, and they're into it. It is unlike a song you've ever heard, and everything else fades away: memory of your friends all drift out of your mind. All that matters is this moment, this dance, these people and the music. Any semblance of the personality of Scanlan that existed before is not there. All you feel is the muscles tensing and relaxing from the ever-present dance. The rest of you slowly begin to approach the outside of this opening.
Liam: She just dumped me out. It's not my call.
Matt: Are you dumping him out or not?
Laura: I'm afraid because of the music's still playing. What if you're still charmed? I'm not going to dump him out.
Matt: She keeps him in the necklace.
Taliesin: Just the basic features of the area.
Matt: Perception check.
Taliesin: Come on.
Liam: I'm in the necklace krumping right now.
Taliesin: That would be ten.
Matt: It's hard to tell at this distance. There's a lot of the tree line at the edge of it that are blocking the shape.
Taliesin: Vex, what did it look like?
Laura: What did what look like?
Taliesin: The area where they are.
Laura: It was a camp with bones all over the ground and floating music things. Dancing.
Taliesin: Were there tents?
Laura: There weren't tents?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Just dirt?
Laura: Just bones.
Taliesin: Was there a fire pit?
Laura: Yes? Was there a fire pit? There was a single fire pit. There was a floating violin and a floating set of drums.
Taliesin: Single fire pit, lit. Set of drums. Violin.
Travis: Hey, I've got an idea. How about you race in, grab Scanlan, I'll kill the other two--
Laura: No! Don't! They actually looked really distraught. I think they were under a spell, as well.
Travis: Have you no mercy?
Taliesin: If we can save one, we can everybody, possibly. I haven't seen it yet. I'm going to try and get a little closer to it, gently.
Laura: I'm going to nock an arrow. And point it towards the violin and hold it there.
Matt: Okay. Percy, you creep closer. As you get closer, the music gets louder.
Laura: But you have stuff in your ears.
Taliesin: I have packed my ears.
Matt: You have, and as you approach, it doesn't seem to have an effect on the volume of the music.
Taliesin: I'm backing up.
Matt: All right. Make an intelligence check. Add your intelligence modifier.
Laura: Please roll good.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: You begin to notice the increasing volume despite the blockage in the ear pretty early on and stop your advancement before you get too close.
Taliesin: I sit. I pull out Bad News and I start to get a good look.
Sam: Oh god, you're going to kill me?!
Taliesin: No, I'm just going to cripple you. Calm down.
Laura: I feel like we should aim for the instruments.
Taliesin: The instruments are noncorporeal, I believe.
Laura: Are they?
Matt: They're just elevated. You didn't get a good look at them.
Taliesin: One way to find out. I'm going to take a shot at the violin.
Matt: Roll an attack.
Taliesin: I haven't done this in so long. 17 to hit.
Matt: 17 to hit. That hits. Roll damage.
Laura: What did you aim at?
Taliesin: The violin.
Laura: Can I aim at one of the other ones?
Matt: Yeah, you want to fire at the same time?
Laura: Yeah, since he shot, I want to shoot.
Matt: Which one are you shooting at, the drums?
Laura: What else was there?
Matt: There was the drums, the flute, and the violin.
Laura: Drums.
Matt: Roll an attack for the drums.
Liam: The woods are full of Irishmen.
Taliesin: 12 points of damage.
Marisha: Oh shit, Flogging Molly's playing the Feywild, yo!
Laura: I rolled 16.
Matt: 16 hits, so damage?
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: 12. And roll damage.
Laura: 15.
Matt: 15, okay. Scanlan, I need you to roll a wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Saving throw? Not at disadvantage? Natural 20.
Matt: You guys with your natural 20s! Okay. Roll it again.
Sam: Natural 20.
Travis: Back-to-back?!
Laura: What the what?!
Matt: That's absurd. You've been storing this shit after a week we've been gone.
Marisha: I don't think that's happened since we played at home.
Laura: No, it happened when I was saving him against the Briarwoods. Two natural 20s.
Marisha: That's right!
Liam: That was 35 episodes ago.
Sam: Wow!
Matt: All right. You take 24 points of psychic damage, Scanlan. As both of you guys fire, both of the instruments scatter for a second, and there is an echo of psychic energy that resonates throughout the entirety of that grove. The fire shakes and dissipates, almost going out. Scanlan, you can see reach up and grab the sides of his head in pain. The guard and the wolf that were dancing do the same, except they both collapse immediately on the ground. A moment passes, the instruments reform, the music continues, and Scanlan goes right back into the dance.
Sam: I throw my white man's overbite back on.
Laura: Maybe it's time for Grog to go in.
Taliesin: No. Round two.
Laura: Round two, Grog runs in and grabs Scanlan, and we run out. He can't be charmed!
Travis: Before you let me off the chain. There are trees, right? Who's benefitting from this charm?
Taliesin: The instruments and the campsite.
Travis: There's not somebody in a tree, hiding out?
Taliesin: I think the campsite just might be a campsite. I want to try and douse the fire.
Marisha: If you want to rage and go in, I can be there on standby.
Travis: You're going to let me go?
Laura: I feel like we should let Grog go.
Marisha: I use Alter Self to shape my fist into a giant rock fist and I deck Grog to throw him into a rage.
Matt: The jaw is momentarily displaced as you pop it back into place.
Marisha: Grog, go get our bard!
Travis: I would like to rage.
Matt: You take one damage from the punch impact, and you go into a rage. Running forward at your 50 feet, you make it into the center of the camp. Currently, the music is all around you, but you don't hear it because all you see is red and Scanlan's fucking horrible white man's overbite dancing by himself at the campsite with no allies.
Travis: I don't know if I've killed an elf in quite a while, so I'm going to aim my axe at the throat of the elf that's dancing.
Matt: The elf isn't dancing; both he and the werewolf are on the ground, unmoving.
Travis: They didn't get back up?
Matt: No, they're fucking down.
Sam: It's just me and some instruments now. You have to come get me.
Travis: Sweet, I'm just grabbing Scanlan and running straight through.
Matt: I need you guys to make opposed athletics checks. No, this would be strength.
Sam: Strength or athletics?
Matt: For this one, I initially said athletics; that's fine. They're almost equatable.
Sam: Saving or check?
Matt: Check.
Sam: Ten.
Travis: 25.
Matt: 25. You grab Scanlan. You begin to make your way out of the camp. It was 40 or 50 feet to get in and grab him.
Taliesin: Is he starting to make his way out of the camp?
Matt: He's grabbed Scanlan and pulled Scanlan off his feet.
Taliesin: I'm going to shoot him in the shoulder with my Retort gun.
Matt: Okay. Roll an attack.
Marisha: Keep the rage going? Nice.
Taliesin: Ooh, just barely. 16.
Matt: Total of 16? What's your armor class, Grog?
Travis: 20.
Taliesin: Taking another shot. Rolling like shit. That's better. 20.
Matt: What's your armor class?
Travis: 20.
Matt: Roll damage.
Taliesin: Thank god. It's been so long! Where are all my dice? Just a nick. 16 points of damage.
Matt: You take 16 points of piercing damage, halved, so you take eight. You feel the music begin to creep into your ears as the blood pumping in your skull begins to subside, and then (gunshot) your shoulder gets blown back. You look over and you can see the bullet wound and the blood beginning to pour out of the small piercing wound you've suffered in your shoulder. The red takes over once again.
Travis: Vax! (laughter)
Matt: Clutching Scanlan at your side, you go running out of the field. Because this is the secondary round now, make one more athletics check versus his athletics check.
Travis: 22.
Matt: Yeah. Scanlan's pushing away as hard as he can against your body, but you have him footballed under your arm and go charging out of the center there. As you pull out of the center of the camp, the flame's reclaimed its general spiraling height. The music keeps playing, and then as you guys rejoin the rest of the party, the music begins to fade as the instruments slowly drift down and lay still.
Laura: Good, it stopped. We can go back out.
Taliesin: (cackles) Really?
Sam: Am I okay?
Matt: You're all right now. Your brain comes to you. Your legs are a little sore, and you were already exhausted to begin with.
Sam: I instinctually start freaking Grog. Dry hump dancing.
Travis: Like a little dog on my calf?
Laura: Okay, so you're all right, Scanlan?
Sam: Oh, what? I was dancing. It was amazing. There were lights.
Laura: I release my brother. He's out of Raven's Slumber.
Liam: Did we see a play yet?
Laura: It was the worst play I've ever seen.
Taliesin: It's more of an intermission.
Laura: Garmelie! Why didn't you warn us that could happen?
Matt: Garmelie, who's there by the side, comes out of his invisibility, and says, "I tried! I really tried! But you guys continually insist to go face-first in whatever I warn you about, because you don't trust me, apparently, when you hired me to be your guide!"
Laura: We trust you, dear.
Matt: "Hopefully you've learned a lesson! God." (sighs)
Sam: Wow. That was amazing.
Travis: So the fire's out; instruments are gone. Should we loot the campfire?
Laura: We should not go back out there.
Sam: Can we get those weapons, somehow?
Marisha: Which weapons?
Sam: The musical weapons.
Marisha: You want the magical enchanted instruments?
Sam: I guess we can't get them, can we?
Laura: Best to avoid them.
Taliesin: It's a trap. It's not actually musical instruments.
Sam: We'll flip a coin, right, Grog?
Travis: Yeah, that's it. Roll a d20.
Sam: Disadvantage. One.
Laura: Let's avoid it.
Marisha: We're good.
Matt: So what are you guys doing?
Laura: We move towards the dusk.
Travis: We're moving towards the Gilded Run.
Matt: All right. As you guys begin moving away, Garmelie scoots up a little bit and gets a look in the edge, and goes, "Well, you certainly found the happy campsite, so good job."
Travis: Oh, you told us about that earlier.
Matt: "Yes! Yes, I did."
Marisha: Oh, that's the happy campsite.
Taliesin: Have you not figured that out yet?
Marisha: I thought he was being metaphorical. I didn't know it was literal.
Matt: (sighs)
Taliesin: This is quite literally the land of literalism at this point.
Travis: We make people sigh a lot.
Matt: All right. I need you to roll a survival check with advantage, leading the group forward.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25. All right. You guys continue pushing duskward. Between you and Garmelie leading the way, the forest gets ever thicker. The trees get even closer together, and you feel that some areas have no more than maybe three or four feet between the tree trunks themselves. The rest is really angry, tangled roots, as well as the high-growing underbrush of the entire forest. Moon still unmoving in the sky.
Travis: Are we trampling anything as we're walking?
Marisha: Yeah, we're not stepping on mandrakes, right?
Matt: No. In fact, it's her high rolls that are keeping you guys from stepping into any of the local dangerous possibly screaming fauna.
Sam: Matt, did my Countercharm help at all?
Matt: It did.
Laura: It gave us advantage--
Sam: But did you need it?
Laura: No, I did, yeah.
Sam: Hey, I did it right!
Liam: Half-elves have advantage on charm.
Laura: Oh.
Sam: It didn't help?
Laura: It didn't help.
Matt: With anybody else, though, it would've helped. It actually helped you.
Sam: I still was charmed.
Matt: You still were charmed.
Liam: Is the footing here precarious? I know she's leading us through, but is it all viney and shitty?
Matt: It's not great. It would slow your pace if you didn't have her leading you through. It's still not the fastest pace in the world, but you're able to keep going at a decent rate.
Travis: Can I jog up to Garmelie and Vex real fast? You said that there were lycans at some point, and you said they move through the trees, right?
Matt: "Yes, from what I've heard."
Travis: Would that be these trees?
Matt: "Possibly."
Travis: Right. Have you seen a lycan?
Matt: "I haven't."
Travis: Great. We should be keeping an eye on the trees.
Laura: I was trying to.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Laura: 36.
Matt: As you guys are having this conversation, you glance up, right into two yellowish eyes that are piercing from just past the leaf line of the canopy above you. As soon as you look up and see them, they immediately disappear in the darkness, and you hear a low growl and some shifting in the leaves above you.
Laura: I think they're here.
Matt: At this point, you guys begin to hear, surrounding you in the distance, growling, sounds of shifting and movement in the trees just beyond. You hear in the distance one singular (howl) and barks echoing around you in the center of the forest. Shadows begin to dart between the trees, and a quiet moan of wind begins to break what was once silence in this forest. As you guys glance around you in the darkness, many of you having darkvision; even this low moonlight, Percy, you can still make out the shapes that are shifting. You look in your vicinity at what appear to be about six different medium to larger sized man-like humanoid creatures that step out of the trees, revealing themselves, most of which contain a wolf-like appearance, elongated snout, darker gray and brown furs, large pointy ears and gleaming angry eyes, the lips curled back revealing white teeth. You see one large tiger-like man, which sends you immediately into a recoiling moment, though larger than the rakshasa that you've experienced, and not with the signature back hands. They are unclothed, and you see barreling behind you guys, heavy footfalls as you see what looks to be a giant, bipedal bear clutching a greataxe comes (smash) through one of the tree clearings and (roars). They're not attacking. They're not advancing. They've just surrounded you.
Sam: That's not good.
Travis: Well, they're here.
Liam: I give Scanlan a little boot in the butt forward a couple of steps.
Sam: Hello. We come in peace. We mean you no harm. If we've tread into your territory, we will exit immediately, and we apologize for offending you or your gods.
Matt: Some of the wolf-men creatures look at each other. The tiger individual steps further out of the shadows and appears to have two iron-like bracers on, a longbow strapped across his back, and steps forward to meet you from beyond the tree that he was partially obscured from. "Intruders. Your terrible fate brings you within our domain. For what purpose?"
Sam: We seek passage through this marshland to what lies beyond it. We are searching for--
Marisha: The Shademirk bog.
Sam: The Shademirk bog.
Laura: We hope to rid the land of a cancerous tree that has been a blight for a very long time.
Matt: "I know not of this tree."
Sam: It's a source of great evil that's been corrupting this plane and ours.
Matt: "There are many evils that corrupt this plane, small tasty thing."
Sam: I'm not tasty.
Laura: He's not. Many diseases.
Taliesin: Dozens.
Matt: The tiger looks about at the other werewolves who are now stepping in, and the bear, who's put the greataxe over its back now at this point, begins to step closer in. The tiger, whose eyes are now bent on you, takes another step forward, "So." (buzzing)
Matt: The audio on my iPad needs some help, apparently. Time to get new music. Oh, that's an expenditure I don't need.
Sam: A new iPad for no reason?
Laura: Something else? It's our computer?
Crew: We're going to switch out the one that we usually use.
Sam: This is so exciting.
Matt: Isn't it, though? Especially at that climactic moment, my audio goes down.
Crew: Sorry!
Matt: It's all good.
Laura: We should probably kill it. I feel bad for everybody listening.
Matt: I'm going to kill the music, then. Okay. Bringing us back in now. Sorry about that.
Laura: Maybe just make it come out of your iPad.
Matt: It's something. Sure, we'll go with that.
Liam: Works for us.
Laura: That's how we did it at home, man!
Taliesin: This is the best simulation of our old home game that I've had.
Matt: That's enough to give you the feel. The tiger takes that step forward, leans in to you, and goes, "To parley or continue our hunt?" Looks at the other wolves. "Call Ukurat." And roars out to the air. The other wolves all together begin to howl in unison. (howls) Loudly into the sky. (howls)
Laura: What's Trinket doing?
Matt: Trinket's backed up with you guys, growling and facing off with the bear-like entity that's keeping eyes on Trinket but is still (growling) up into the air of the forest.
Travis: Shit.
Laura: Oh. Ukurat. Isn't that the big ghost bear?
Marisha: No, that was Oralan. Ukurat's the lycan leader.
Matt: A few moments pass as the howling subsides and they all stare intently, keeping a bestial cage around you in the center of this forest. It's at that point you begin to hear (footfalls) what sounds like a series of heavy footfalls at a speed, and the sound of trees thrashed as various hanging vines and branches are snapped or passed at such a speed. There is a mass of black shadow that comes emerging from the brush, slamming into the side of one of the trees near you with a clattering (crash). You see it pressed up against the side before leaping off, rebounding, landing right beside you guys, separating your group, giving Scanlan, Vex, Trinket, and Garmelie pushed to one side and the rest of you to the other. You now see this giant, feral beast, humanoid in shape once it begins to stand, but larger than anything you've seen before, as the large wolf-man creature stands at full height, about 12, 13 feet tall, its shoulders wider than yours, Grog. A series of various jeweled necklaces adorn its throat, and you can see what appears to be a makeshift leather belt and armored leg piece that sit upon it. Rings glimmer around its fingers, and you can see a series of scars drawn across one side of its cheek that go down to its throat. It looks about at the rest of you, separated, glancing at each side. "So. You seek passage, yes?"
Sam: Yes, that's right.
Matt: "There is a toll to pay. A favor to the Fendir is granted. A favor in kind."
Sam: A favor to you?
Marisha: The Fendir, is that what you said?
Matt: "We are the Fendir."
Sam: Well, we would be happy to help if we can. We are here to do good, anyway. We've already done some. We conquered the devastating campsite of Soradun the Happy, and we're up to doing more tasks like that, if it would help.
Matt: The wolf creature that you expect, at this point, is the Lord Ukurat that you heard mentioned before by both Garmelie and the wolf and beast kin, leans down towards you, making you uncomfortable, as his head is larger than your entire body, Scanlan. The lips curl back, and you can see the glistening white teeth, and drool slowly dripping off the edge of its curled purple-black lips. (sniffs) "We will not eat this day if you agree to do us this favor."
Laura: Name it.
Matt: "The pixie Wishers carry a madness, one that pits them against all who wander these woods. They prey upon us Fendir, take our forms to desecrate their twisted garden and decorate their lives. We lose family. We, the Fendir, and I, lord of this brood, ask you to take into this home, find these Wishers, destroy a relic of their people. In particular, a circle of crystal stones they keep. It sits among their homes, tended by their mystic, Iotha. She wields the power to subjugate us all. Do you agree to these terms, or does our hunt continue?"
Laura: They sound really powerful, these pixies.
Sam: If you are not powerful enough to conquer them, how would we have a chance?
Matt: "If you do not think you have a chance, perhaps you're best suited as our meal for the night."
Laura: No, we have a very good chance of defeating them. We are quite powerful. Just wondering why you haven't done it before.
Matt: "We have fallen to their magic. We are not tested and tempered against such trickster cunning creatures. But if you speak like you've passed the campsite unscathed, perhaps you have skills we lack."
Sam: That is true. We probably do. We made quick work of the camp. It was a proud moment for us, one that will be storied for generations.
Marisha: This mystic-- Iotha, you said-- she has the power to subjugate your kind?
Matt: "Yes."
Marisha: Does she have the power to create more lycans?
Matt: "She sees our kind to be exterminated."
Sam: Where can we find this site?
Matt: "Follow the lights."
Sam: The lights?
Matt: The small, glittering fey lights that you've seen throughout many of the darker forested areas of the Feywild since you arrived, now taking a look, they all slowly, gently drift in a singular direction before touching the ground and dissipating. Even though the wind that blew through with their arrival has faded, they all still drift in a direction as if they're being called a specific way.
Laura: Cool. Hey, question. Should we help you with this terrible problem you've been facing, do you think there's any way you would want to help us when we try to take out this cancerous tree? It needs to be taken care of. Teamwork?
Matt: "Cancerous tree?"
Laura: It's really bad. Whole other area for you to dominate. It's quite wonderful.
Marisha: The Shademirk bog.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: Goddamn it! Wait, it's my favored terrain.
Matt: Doesn't work for every single thing you do. The forest isn't going to help you with your persuasion check, sorry.
Laura: Natural one.
Matt: The wolf leans forward, and the mouth comes right up to you for a second. The nose almost nudges you, and you instinctually stand back as it (snorts). "This is not part of our parley. We grant you passage and to take what you wish off their pixie corpses. That is the deal. Take it, or we hunt."
Sam: I think we'll take the deal. Happy to enter into this contract with you. No problem.
Marisha: We're just stacking contracts.
Sam: Is there a timetable to this? Do we have to do this now? Can we do this on the way out of the Feywild?
Matt: "There is no out until this agreement is completed."
Sam: Do we have your word that we have completely safe passage? We don't have to worry about any other sort of monsters getting us in our sleep on the way there?
Matt: "They and us rule this brush. Against each other, nothing will take your path away. We can guide you if need be."
Marisha: If we take out the pixies, what is the future of your tribe?
Matt: "The brush will be ours. We will no longer be taken, our people left there to wither and waste away to the elements."
Marisha: Just a question. Do you guys hunt the pixies? Because I'm getting the sense that this is a weird turf war, and I just want to know the full story before we enter into this contract.
Matt: The bear, who's closer to you, takes a step forward, and you feel the ground shake behind you.
Travis: I match his step.
Matt: Match his step, okay. Grog steps forward. The other of the wolves nearby see you, and they all (snarl) crouch down, snarling in your direction. Lord Ukurat puts his hands out. "Calm, my brethren. We wish to live in peace amongst the woods, away from those who would hunt us, outside and in."
Marisha: Why don't you guys just agree? You guys take this half of the forest, and they'll take the other? I can even help you guys build a big wall, if you want, not to get oddly political. Maybe death is not the answer here?
Matt: One of the wolves nearby speaks up, "She speaks like she knows this place." And you hear some laughter. The wolf's head, which is turned to you, Lord Ukurat turns to you.
Marisha: They think I'm funny.
Sam: How many total are there?
Matt: There were seven, including the 12-foot-tall one.
Sam: We can probably take them.
Marisha: I'm not trying to take sides here. Just from a third party looking in. Trying to understand both perspectives, maybe.
Matt: "You have only heard one perspective."
Marisha: Exactly!
Matt: "Then go speak with them, if you'd like. Learn what we have learned. Perhaps that will help guide your choice."
Marisha: Not a bad idea.
Taliesin: I find that very reasonable.
Laura: That is very agreeable.
Matt: "We will be watching." At this point, Lord Ukurat crouches down, leaps up into the canopy of the forest, and you hear (impacts) as he leaps off in the distance. The other wolves (howl) follow suit and dart off in separate directions, and you hear as the bear backs away, Trinket growls back at him.
Laura: Be nice to him, Trinket!
Matt: (bear growl) The bear goes, (grunt). Trinket goes (grunt). Broseph bear snarls. You guys are left to the quiet of the forest now.
Sam: We could probably kill them all. I'm just throwing that out there.
Travis: I'm super restless.
Liam: I don't really want to fight a group of werebeasts, but we have much better chances, if we're going to pick a side, against them with their brute strength, than against fucking pixies. I am charmed at the drop of a hat!
Travis: Have you fought a werewolf before? Have you fought a lycan? Is it just brute strength?
Liam: Well, they are cursed. They seem very unhappy. They have to sit in rolling chairs at all times.
Taliesin: We literally have no idea what we're up against in any direction.
Liam: There are scary fairy stories, though, growing up?
Matt: You've heard about people that transform, but any specifics about their capabilities--
Marisha: I have a few spells that are good against people who can transform, but we're also in the Feywild, so I don't know.
Taliesin: Cute and dainty also means scary and dangerous.
Liam: We really bollocksed up the musical instruments scenario, and I don't feel like the pixies are going to be much better than that.
Taliesin: I feel like that went rather well.
Laura: All things considered.
Taliesin: Took less than three tries to figure that out.
Liam: Yeah, we ran in for 30 seconds, shit the bed, and then got the hell out. We didn't try to end them. We didn't finish anything.
Travis: It also bears remarking that Garmelie said we're not supposed to side with either, right?
Laura: Right, Garmelie?
Matt: "It's really up to you guys. I don't know if you have much of a choice right now."
Liam: Can't we just thread the needle and play them both?
Marisha: Until we get out of here. We're talking about exterminating the group of fairies--
Travis: No, we're destroying one of their relics.
Taliesin: Just have to desecrate a relic.
Marisha: You don't think they're going to put up a massive fight if we go in and start kicking their relics?
Taliesin: I feel like we've desecrated relics before.
Laura: Scanlan is really charming.
Sam: I could probably convince them to destroy it themselves.
Taliesin: How's that book going?
Marisha: You genuinely think we can destroy the relics without harming anyone?
Laura: No, but I'd like to try.
Taliesin: But I also will admit, I kind of want to see the pixies.
Marisha: I want to see the pixies, too.
Liam: You also wanted to hear the music. That didn't go well. We've got a bow to get you.
Travis: Let's just go over there, do a little recon, and then we'll make up our minds.
Liam: We are idiots.
Taliesin: Yes, we are.
Sam: I'm more inclined to turn around and fight these lions and tigers and bears, oh my! Because pixies, who knows?
Laura: Honestly, they didn't seem that bad. I feel terrible killing them for no reason.
Marisha: Maybe we can talk to the pixies about--
Taliesin: I think you would look fetching in a new lined winter jacket.
Marisha: Maybe they can work with us.
Sam: I'm okay with at least going to do some recon.
Travis: Go see the pixies. We send in Garmelie. If he dies, then we make a choice. Do you have a revision to that plan?
Matt: "I would think that would be the last portion of the plan. Everything else goes forward, and then, all else fails, perhaps Garmelie would have a hard time."
Marisha: Garmelie. Go, Percy.
Taliesin: You're our guide. Guide us. We're supposed to go where we're going, so you're supposed to get us there. How do we get there?
Laura: Follow the lights.
Matt: "You know exactly how to go there. Follow the lights."
Travis: Wow, you're so brave.
Marisha: We brought you here.
Taliesin: Garmelie, I'm so curious as to what happens if you're going to renege on our contract.
Laura: Would you want to draw some of the pixies if we see them?
Matt: "If they let me."
Laura: You can hide behind Grog, and you draw the pixies.
Matt: "I can maybe do that."
Travis: They're going to be pixies with giant dickbutts everywhere.
Marisha: Garmelie, is there anything in particular about pixies we desperately need to be aware of?
Matt: "They're tiny. They're frail, mostly mischievous."
Travis: How tiny?
Matt: He makes a motion with his hands about like that.
Laura: They're really that small? Are they super strong?
Matt: "No, they're quite the opposite, actually."
Sam: But there are lots of them, and they're fast and invisible.
Matt: "They are fairly magical entities. Depending on which type of pixie they are, their dispositions can shift dramatically. The Feywild entities that live and exist in certain areas tend to adapt to those areas. There are creatures of all emotional and moral backgrounds and interests. It's hard to say."
Taliesin: I'll also say, if we are going to attack the were-creatures, it would be nice to have a little help, maybe.
Sam: Help? From whom?
Taliesin: From the pixies. If we explain our situation, we can make a decision and either help the were-creatures or--
Laura: Maybe the pixies can help us take out the cancerous tree and all the things around it.
Travis: Well, let's go get eyes on them, shall we?
Marisha: Let's go.
Matt: All right, make a survival check. With advantage because you're in a forest.
Laura: I'm in a forest.
Sam: Oh, just her?
Matt: Just her, yeah.
Laura: That's better. 22.
Matt: 22. You guys begin to move slowly forward as you ascertain a direction from the occasional small flutter of fey light that drifts at a slight curvature in its descent, making your way in the direction where, supposedly, the nexus of this pixie tribe should exist. We're going to go ahead and take a break. We will see you guys back here in a few minutes to pick up where we left off, wandering towards the pixie home. We'll see you guys in a minute. [break]
Matt: Welcome back. As we come into the event, Vox Machina is slowly crawling through the Moonbrush towards wherever these gentle fey lights drift, leading them, hopefully, to some sort of home space or residence of the local Wishers pixie population. You guys, pushing on for about another two and half, three hours, following the lights.
Sam: Reading.
Laura: How many hours do you have left of reading?
Sam: After two and half more, I have about four and a half.
Matt: So close. You're on the cusp of your week end, too. You guys make your way-- hoping that the music now is fixed. We shall see. It's a cable issue, not an iPad issue, it looks like. As you guys push on, you eventually see a cluster of small glowing lights in the distance, Vex. Garmelie immediately goes, "I'm going to hide now," and he goes invisible.
Laura: Garmelie, won't they see you?
Matt: "That's possible. Should I just stay back?"
Laura: You should probably just hold onto Grog. If he runs in, just trail behind him.
Matt: "Okay," and you feel the little hand grab the back of your belt again, a similar situation. You hear (groans). You guys now see what appears to be a thicket in the center of this portion of the forest. Maybe 20 or so natural-looking homes forming a small glowing community, almost like they were grown out of the ground of the local trees. The bark itself protrudes from the side of a tree and creates a dome-like abode that has carved little windows in it and a glowing interior. It's a very pretty fairy community out there, right in there in the center. All of the fey lights in the forest are slowly drifting in towards the center of this community. At a hundred-foot distance, you can just make out the faintest details.
Laura: They're teeny, though? It's teeny little houses?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Like doghouse size?
Matt: Each home or abode is about the size of a basketball.
Sam: Are they made out of toadstools?
Matt: It's hard to see from this distance. You can just see the general size of the homes.
Marisha: This is so cute.
Liam: And Vex is the only one that can see it.
Matt: She's the furthest ahead, yes.
Travis: I feel like "cute" is the last word we should use for this.
Taliesin: It will be the last word you ever say.
Laura: Definitely pixie city is up ahead.
Travis: Should we look for perimeter alarms or traps?
Laura: Yes, I look for that. Good idea, Grog! Good thinking.
Liam: I'm going to go stealth, just because.
Laura: Me, too.
Matt: All right. Make a stealth check, guys.
Travis: All right, Pass Without a Trace?
Laura: That's not still active anymore?
Travis: That was awful.
Sam: We're doing stealth checks?
Matt: Of those who wish to move forward towards the village.
Marisha: Oh, all of us? Sure.
Travis: 15.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Travis: What!
Liam: 25.
Sam: Are we adding plus ten?
Laura: 27.
Sam: Five.
Marisha: 17.
Matt: And as you guys creep forward, still humming the essence of the tune you guys managed to escape earlier, Scanlan's enjoying the echoes of his countercharm that he so well presented earlier, you shush him as you slowly creep closer to the outskirts of this pixie community. As you get closer-- when you envision a city, or a cluster of abodes like this, it's a large section, but for the scale of this it's no more than maybe 25 feet across and there are maybe two dozen homes throughout the entirety of this space. You can see just on the edge, looking inside, what appears to be a circle of about ten slightly glowing quartz-like stones, arranged in a perfect circle in the center of the community, and most of the fey lights are drawn towards it and cluster and rest at the base of the stones before fading away. You can also see, throughout this community, arranged like decorative statues, three stone, human-sized wolf-men type creatures that are locked in place, their claws up like this. Some look like they're fleeing, over a shoulder. They're all locked in a stone position and currently now have draped over them small vines and flowers, and they now rest amongst the community as some sort of a landmark.
Liam: All right, that is kind of fucked up.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: You can see at this distance now a few moving, slightly brighter points of glowing light fluttering by and going from one little home to another. One over and into the circle flutters back. You guys are still at a good 40, 50 feet from the outside of this clearing.
Laura: And we can't spot any pixies near us at all?
Matt: Not directly near you, no.
Travis: I hate spiders.
Sam: I don't want to go near this place. We should either talk to them, or run away right now.
Travis: I like the latter of those two.
Liam: What was the goal here? To grab part of the circle?
Sam: To break a piece of the circle.
Marisha: To kick over their rocks.
Travis: Did they say to bring one back? Or to break it? The relic.
Matt: They said desecrate.
Marisha: They said it was the source of their power, right?
Liam: Desecrate it?
Travis: You ever stepped on an anthill, right? It gets real nasty, real fast.
Liam: Is it an open area over the village?
Matt: It is a clearing of trees about 25, 30 feet across, and along the interior of the trees are where a lot of the homes are grown out of, or out of the ground almost like strange tree trunk roots up into a dome-like natural home, and even they're arranged in a smaller circle around the central stone circle that is the middle.
Travis: Like forest wasps.
Liam: It all depends on the definition of desecrate. I could fly you 500 feet in the air, and you could shit upon that circle. It just depends if that is desecration in the eyes of the fey.
Taliesin: I will say that from what I gather of this realm, it probably isn't enough.
Travis: What if we asteroid-dropped Keyleth from 500 feet?
Marisha: That was very fun.
Laura: That would take out the lot of them?
Marisha: But it would take out the lot of them, right?
Laura: It seems so drastic.
Liam: The fairies or the fairy circle? Wouldn't it just destroy the circle?
Marisha: How wide is the entire--
Matt: About 25, 30 feet for the entirety of the community. The circle itself is five to ten feet wide. It's not a very large circle at all.
Travis: You'd be in your stone elemental form, it'd be no problem for you.
Marisha: It'd be no problem for me.
Sam: I don't think she would ever get close to it. They have some sort of shield up.
Taliesin: It'd be kicking the hornet's nest, certainly.
Sam: Tell me this, Vex, Vax. People with high perception.
Laura: He's Vex, I'm Vax.
Sam: Where are the animal men? Are they watching us right now?
Matt: Perception check.
Laura: That's double because of favored terrain. What is that, 20? No, 33.
Matt: 33. Doing a pretty intense scan of the vicinity of the forest around you, you see no sign of any of the previous pack that you encountered.
Sam: I think they're out there somewhere.
Taliesin: I think they're probably hanging back a bit. I don't know if they'd want to get this close.
Marisha: I'm sure they have other means of spying on us.
Travis: I vote we don't fuck with the pixies. Never thought I'd say that.
Marisha: Here's what I have at my disposal. A, I can shapeshift into a little tiny spider and go in there--
Laura: Can you shapeshift into a pixie?
Marisha: No, unfortunately. Beasts. Particular.
Sam: Can't you go underground and pop up?
Marisha: Yeah. Once again, probably destroying their entire village, but yeah.
Taliesin: The two of us could snipe something out.
Marisha: But I could go in like a spider and be a spider. I also happened to bring Hallucinatory Terrain today, so depending on how smart we think the lycans are, maybe I can make it look like we destroyed it.
Liam: How long does that last?
Marisha: 24 hours. Let me double check before I make promises.
Laura: I like this.
Liam: Just to give us a day's head start.
Sam: What we could do, Grog and I could run back, I could cut him over the eye, and say: It was horrible. It was quite a fight, but we won.
Laura: Do we need to let the pixies know that we're going to do this?
Marisha: Maybe Scanlan, do you have something that could-- I don't want to waste a spell and then find out that they have some sort of magical barrier enchantment that it can't stay up there.
Travis: What, you'd waste Hallucinatory Terrain?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: When else are you going to use that?
Marisha: Well, I'm burning a spell slot.
Sam: If they block it with their magical little crystals all over the place, then they'll also know we're here and they will attack us.
Marisha: Yes, 24 hours for a 150-foot cube, I make a terrain look, sound, and smell like some sort of other terrain.
Laura: I'm just worried that if you do it then the lycans are going to bust it, and then they just go to battle amongst themselves.
Taliesin: Isn't that brilliant?
Laura: This is actually really smart.
Sam: Wait, can you still tree-bamf us out of harm's way if we needed to?
Laura: You've got the mansion.
Sam: I don't have the mansion.
Taliesin: He's already burned the mansion.
Sam: I haven't slept in days.
Marisha: The only thing I have that can get us out fast is Plane Shift, which will get us out of the Feywild, but I brought that just in case.
Travis: Third option, we say fuck the lycans, fuck the pixies, and we just keep going.
Laura: What if you do the Hallucinatory Terrain, and we just leave?
Marisha: Yeah, we could do the Hallucinatory Terrain, and if it fails, then I guess we won't be in any worse situation.
Taliesin: I'm a big fan of Hallucinatory Terrain.
Sam: If we do Hallucinatory Terrain and it fails, the pixies will straight-up attack us.
Laura: How do you know?
Marisha: Well, it won't hurt them. It just makes it look different.
Sam: Everything here has attacked us.
Travis: All in favor of Hallucinatory Terrain, raise your hand.
Sam: We have to get the animal men here to see it, or else it isn't worth it.
Laura: We cast it and we create a ruckus--
Sam: I will buy into this idea if we have a plan for when the pixies are about to literally attack us five minutes from now.
Marisha: Well, we can do Hallucinatory Terrain, and if we run into the lycans, all we have to do is say we did it.
Laura: Do Hallucinatory Terrain. Garmelie, which direction should we run if we're running towards where we're supposed to be going?
Matt: Garmelie has watched this thing with eyes wide, and he's like, "That way."
Laura: All right.
Travis: Weren't you dropping little green rocks?
Marisha: I was dropping little green rocks.
Travis: So we can find our way back to the lycans, right?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: That's of course assuming that the little green rocks work here.
Marisha: They were red. They were red rocks.
Taliesin: There's an awful lot of reasons why the little red rocks wouldn't work.
Travis: Okay. Let's do it.
Laura: We take off running--
Sam: Wait, where are we running?
Laura: Towards the bog.
Sam: Towards the what?
Liam: We think towards the bog.
Sam: We're leaving Kiki and just running?
Marisha: No, I can do this at a range of 300 feet, so let's back up 300 feet.
Laura: You do it, we act like we did something, we start running.
Marisha: Hallucinatory Terrain, are we doing this? Are we ready? Are we doing this? I did it, bamf.
Matt: So you stand back a bit at the outskirts. What kind of hallucinatory terrain are you creating?
Marisha: I want it to look like the fairy terrain, but their little huts are on fire like they've been raided, and I want the circle of rocks to be obliterated, and all their statues to be knocked over and it smells like fire and shit and pixie blood. Like Grog said.
Matt: Grasping at what you imagine pixie blood would smell like.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm sure it smells delightful. Herbal.
Matt: So as Keyleth, you finish concentrating, you guys watch as there's a shimmer of magical energy, and now you see where once the beautiful glowing fairy light of the pixie abodes now look burnt to a cinder. You can see embers slowly rising off of them as the stone structures are now broken across the ground.
Liam: The horror, the horror.
Sam: The pixies see it too, though.
Marisha: They can see it, but they can also be like: oh, this isn't real.
Liam: I grab Keyleth by the wrist and start running away from the village.
Travis: Are we running back to the lycans or to the Shademirk?
Laura: Towards the Shademirk.
Travis: I've got Garmelie.
Liam: Go, run faun, run.
Laura: But keep on the lookout for mandrakes.
Marisha: And werewolves.
Matt: Okay, so I want everyone to make a perception check.
Sam: Strong eight.
Taliesin: Natural one.
Liam: Natural one.
Taliesin: No!
Marisha: 22.
Laura: No! 31.
Travis: Natural 19.
Matt: What are you looking out for? Which direction are you looking?
Laura: I'm looking towards where we're going.
Matt: Okay, so you're going with Garmelie, heading in the direction duskward. Where are you looking, Keyleth?
Marisha: I'm looking out for werewolves, for lycans.
Matt: Okay. Where are you looking?
Travis: I'm looking for lycans, too. I'm just being honest!
Matt: All right, so you guys continue pushing forward--
Liam: I'm shouting  The way is clear!
Matt: All right, you guys run, and run, and run, and you're pushing through brush and pushing over elements and heavy hard portions of the floor. I need everyone to roll-- this is going to be an athletics check for the keeping up the endurance and the speed. This is not easy terrain you continue to push through.
Marisha: Athletics?
Laura: I've got land stride, so I don't get slowed by any hard terrain.
Matt: You're fine. You don't need to roll.
Travis: 24.
Marisha: 24.
Taliesin: 11.
Sam: I rolled twice, because of disadvantage. Both were ones.
Matt: You've hit the spectrum today.
Liam: Well, I rolled a one, but then I used Luck and I rolled a 20.
Matt: You guys, calm down on the extremes! There are other numbers between those two, you realize, on the dice.
Sam: I'm tired from reading.
Matt: You're not reading during this run. But as you guys are charging forward, Scanlan goes face-first over a heavy root into the ground. You guys have to double back, grab him, keep going. You push on, and you push on, and you push on for what seems like another 30 minutes to an hour. Your pace starts to slow due to general exhaustion and you're unable to keep that speed and that level of physical exertion for that long. Most of you can't. Grog is happy to go forever. Constitution of 20; he's good to go.
Liam: He's basically good against anything except one of the ancient dragons.
Matt: There's a few things he's not good against. Tiny brain with arms and legs, not so good.
Travis: Fuck that little bastard.
Matt: That was fun. Eventually, you begin to see a thinning of the trees, like the forest is coming to an end. You're beginning to hit the edge of the duskward side of the Moonbrush.
Laura: Are we going the right direction, Garmelie?
Matt: "As far as I know! Yes, we're going the right way!"
Marisha: You're taking us through the bog?
Matt: "Through the Moonbrush. That's what we're going through."
Marisha: Still to the bog.
Matt: "Of course! Where else would I want to go?!" He's holding his hat and rushing along.
Liam: You want to go to the theater.
Matt: "No theater!"
Liam: What's your problem with the arts, man?
Matt: You guys, at this point in time, come to the final tree line, Vex and Vax and Garmelie helming at the front of the pace before all three of you slam into something extremely hard.
Marisha: Oh fuck.
Laura: What is it?
Liam: Did it feel like a theater?
Matt: No, it felt like a wall.
Liam: The wall of a theater?
Laura: Seriously. A wall?
Matt: You stand back up and you guys catch up, and same thing: you come up to the edge between where the trees that hit the perimeter of the forest are, and there's a barrier, an invisible barrier right there that's preventing you from crossing.
Liam: What is this thing, Garmelie?
Matt: "I don't know! I haven't encountered this."
Liam: Never ever?
Matt: "I don't walk into the middle of dangerous forests for fun!"
Taliesin: I don't think we can leave until we take care of this.
Travis: Wait. You can go invisible. Is it magic? Can you tell?
Matt: "I can have a look at it."
Travis: Yeah, have a look.
Matt: He comes up and looks over it for a bit. "To be honest, this is a large-scale enchantment. This is some sort of-- this is very powerful, very old magic."
Marisha: Fucking old magic.
Matt: He turns around, looking at you guys. "Hi."
Laura: Hi.
Matt: Looking past you.
Laura: Oh shit.
Matt: As you guys turn around and see behind you what looks to be, shoulder to shoulder, a mass of furred, standing, snarling, beast-like humanoids. Behind them, landing and standing up to his full height, his snout having to dip beneath the brush under the nearest trees.
Liam: See what we did to those pixies? Wrecked.
Laura: Fucking destroyed.
Travis: Cut me real quick.
Matt: At this point, you now see as Lord Ukurat steps from them, and they all begin to form a semicircle around you. He goes, "Were you trying to flee?"
Taliesin: We were running from the pixies.
Laura: We destroyed their home, and then we took off running. That's what you wanted, right?
Marisha: They're so scary.
Matt: "If you had done what we asked, you would have been able to leave this forest."
Taliesin: So we have to try harder. It didn't work.
Laura: Apparently, our methods were not complete. We will go back and we will do it better this next time.
Marisha: To be fair, I don't remember entering a formal contract.
Liam: You took off before we shook hands or anything.
Marisha: You told us to go take a look at the pixies first. And to get a second opinion. And we have made it to the edge of the bog safely, without your need of safe passage.
Matt: He's already turned around and walking away. He says, "Do what you will. I have no interest in you. Liars, deceivers! You talk too much. Your meat would taste like ash in my mouth. Well, good luck. Enjoy your time locked in this prison like the rest of us!" The wolves turn around and walk away.
Laura: Wait, you're locked in here because of the pixies?
Taliesin: I feel like they're terrible communicators.
Marisha: Yeah, they should've told us that. I don't think they wanted to tell us that.
Liam: Would've been a good incentive for us to destroy the pixies. We can't proceed without destroying the pixies.
Laura: A little communication is all we need!
Travis: Can I take out my bloodaxe and go up to the magic barrier and hit it as hard as I can?
Matt: Go for it. Roll an attack.
Taliesin: This is going to be appalling. Don't.
Travis: 22.
Matt: Okay, roll damage.
Travis: How do I do that? I forget. I'm kidding.
Matt: It's been a few episodes.
Travis: 16.
Matt: Okay. I need you to also make a wisdom saving throw.
Travis: Sweet. Natural one.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Liam: Got to love it when the crew laughs at your final death crack.
Matt: As you pull back with the bloodaxe, you slam with all your might into the barrier. As it hits, there's a streak, a flash of vibrant, bluish-white light and what sounds like the highest shriek you've ever heard in the entirety of your time on Exandria, at which point you watch Grog get flung backwards at incredible speed through the air, the actual blast sending you almost into your allies and party, slamming into one of the nearby tree trunks. The bloodaxe goes plopping to the ground as you feel a number of bones in your back crack from the impact. You suffer 28 points of psychic damage and 14 points of bludgeoning damage from hitting the tree.
Taliesin: I feel like we all learned a very valuable lesson right now.
Marisha: What's a good burrowing creature? A badger?
Travis: Ow.
Laura: I feel like we need to rest, you guys. We really need to rest.
Taliesin: Let's sit down and camp, and in the morning, we'll go and kill some pixies.
Sam: Wait. Are we trapped in here because we were deceitful to these wolf-men, or because the pixies are trapping everybody?
Liam: The pixies are bitter little assholes.
Matt: Garmelie goes, "That doesn't make sense. People enter and exit the forest without an issue."
Sam: We entered.
Marisha: Yeah, we entered.
Sam: So why are we trapped here? Because we lied?
Matt: "I don't know."
Travis: I just don't think we can go this way. (belches)
Taliesin: I'm going to attempt to cast Minor Illusion on the other side of the wall. Just an image of myself.
Matt: Okay. As you attempt to cast the spell, the arcane energy dissipates upon impact with the barrier.
Laura: Garmelie, who do you know that's left these woods?
Matt: "That would be my uncle Jameson, who's the person I learned most of this information about the Moonbrush from."
Laura: Your uncle Jameson, and he was definitely telling the truth that he went in the woods?
Matt: "He was probably a little intoxicated when he was spinning these tales, but--"
Taliesin: Is Jameson his real name or a nickname?
Matt: "As far as I know, it's his real name."
Laura: So he knew about the happy camp.
Matt: "These were the things I was warned of, yes."
Liam: Do we want to waste any time trying to take your broom up and see how high this barrier goes?
Marisha: I can dig and see if we can go under, just in case.
Taliesin: That doesn't jive.
Travis: Oh, that's true. It didn't hurt us when we just ran into it.
Liam: No, when we ran into it, it felt like a brick wall.
Laura: I guess I fly up. Can I fly up and see how high up it goes?
Matt: Sure. You get on the broom, you go past the canopy and eventually, the front of the broom clips and scrapes against, and you can see a little bit of a shimmer of the barrier that domes up.
Laura: It's a bubble. We're in a bubble. I go back down.
Travis: I have a proposal.
Laura: Yes, Grog?
Travis: Why don't we make our way back to the pixie dome and say: oh, we were chased by these horrible lycans! We wanted to kill them, but we got stuck when we hit this invisible wall. Could you do anything to help us get rid of the lycans? And then we play both sides of the coin.
Sam: That is way better than our first idea, and yet still terrible.
Taliesin: I think we have to pick a terrible idea and stick with it until it becomes far too much for us to deal with.
Marisha: Can I take a look around and do a perception check to see if anyone else might be watching us?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: That's not bad. 25.
Matt: 25. You take a moment and glance about the tree line, the floor.
Marisha: Are there rustles in the bushes from someone who might be invisible?
Matt: No movement any further. Once the rest of Lord Ukurat and his crew had vanished into the nightward direction, you've seen no movement since.
Laura: I feel like they weren't that bad of guys. They could've attacked us, and they didn't. They just want out.
Liam: They're certainly no meaner than Grog is. They're just scarier.
Taliesin: I propose we take a nap. Go back and deal with the pixies one way or another.
Liam: I agree with Percival. I think all our options are shit. We pick the least shitty and see what happens.
Laura: Scanlan, can you sleep?
Sam: If I read for a few more hours first, sure.
Taliesin: You'll take first watch.
Marisha: How long have we been up?
Matt: At this point in time, I'd say close to eight, nine hours.
Marisha: So it hasn't been a full day. Let's call it an early night.
Laura: Read your book. We'll sleep.
Travis: All right. You take first watch. We're going to zonk out.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: I'll stay up, as well.
Matt: So you're taking a short rest or a long rest?
Laura: We'll take a short rest into a long rest. So he can finish reading and then we can sleep.
Matt: All right, sure. So you're taking first watch.
Laura: And I'm up with him.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Can I...
Matt: Can you...?
Marisha: I want to go Minxie and do a little perimeter walk in the forest a little bit.
Matt: Okay. The rest of you guys are resting and finding camp here in a small section of the trees. You're on that weird cusp where, looking out towards the barrier, you can see the dusk light, the usual sky of the Feywild, and as you guys back up to find your camp, a little deeper in the forest where it feels safer and less exposed, looking up, you can still see the dark, starry sky and the moon, both visible from your position past the trees above and past the barrier in front. As the rest of you are resting, you're finishing up your reading. You go Minxie form, and you go wandering the perimeter. Make a perception check.
Marisha: Natural one.
Sam: Looks like a seven. Nope, that's a one.
Matt: As you're stalking through, looking about, you catch a scent, a new scent. One you're unfamiliar with. It smells sweet, like a freshly fallen and opened fruit. You immediately instinctively look down and sniff across the ground. Out of the corner of your eye, you see a glow as you see two small, humanoid entities with pairs of wings flutter in in front of you and stop. What languages do you know?
Marisha: Elven, Sylvan, Primordial.
Matt: Okay. You do understand what they're saying, as they are both talking to each other in Sylvan. One says, "I'm not familiar with this one! I don't think I've seen this creature in here before." The other one glances over and goes, "You don't think she could've done it?"
Marisha: What was that last bit? Sorry.
Matt: "You don't think that she could've done it? It's just a cat." "Is it, though?" They both get closer and inspect you. They're both rotating around your face and fluttering. One starts pulling on your ear a little bit, tugging on it.
Marisha: I start purring.
Matt: "It's okay." They move underneath, under your neck, and scratch just a little bit. The other one backs up and goes, "We have to keep looking. Something did this."
Marisha: I wait for a second, and then start stalking them.
Matt: You follow them?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. The rest of you guys are taking a rest. You continue reading.
Laura: I'm awake. I'm keeping guard.
Matt: They stop and move, stop and move. They're doing a full perimeter. Apparently, they are some sort of a search party. Occasionally, you can hear bits and pieces of conversation at a distance, thanks to your better hearing as Minxie, but not incredible bits. They're discussing a scare. They're discussing the enchantment that was placed. They're discussing new intrusion. That's about the most you can make out of the conversation. You continue to follow them. You're going into the second or third hour of following them, and they're still doing a wide perimeter in the forest. They meet up with a third one, and they have a quick little discussion and then branch off.
Marisha: Can I hear the little discussion, anything?
Matt: If you want to get closer.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Make a stealth check.
Marisha: I have stealth as Minxie. I get benefits, right, as a tiger? Oh, yeah, I do. Oh, not good. Ten.
Matt: All right. As you creep forward in the middle of their discussion, the three of them all whip around at you. One of them pulls a wand out and puts it out in front, and the other two back up.
Marisha: I just start eating grass.
Laura: That's totally tiger-like.
Matt: The two that saw you before are like, "She's been following us." "Why?"
Marisha: I roll over and show my belly.
Matt: The one that has the wand out goes, "I don't want to take chances." Puts the wand out. How many hit points do you have? In Minxie form?
Liam: Shuffle shuffle, flip page, flip page, flip page.
Marisha: Sorry. 52. They're going to Finger of Death me, aren't they? They're going to do something bad.
Matt: Okay. Raises the wand. There's a slight tingling sensation, and then nothing happens, and looks at the wand. "Strange." They all convene and start whispering to each other very close.
Marisha: I look distracted with other stuff. I sniff and wander off.
Matt: They separate a bit.
Marisha: Just doing cat-like things.
Liam: Just start pissing.
Marisha: I mark my territory. I spray a little bit.
Laura: Gross. That's foul, Keyleth.
Matt: You hear one of them say, "We can always correct it later, but best to be safe than sorry." As you're peeing, I need you to make a--
Laura: If she gets petrified while she's pissing, it's going to be--
Matt: I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: It's either a one or a 20.
Marisha: I'll just start a new one. Don't worry about it. Fuck, why?
Travis: Is this shit on camera? We're recording, right?
Marisha: That one's a 19, can I go with the 19?
Matt: You can't take it off the table before it's real.
Travis: Twice in a fucking row? What are the chances? Do it again.
Marisha: Oh, that's a 16, that's good. Saving throw, so 21.
Matt: Constitution saving throw is 21 total?
Marisha: I've got my ring of protection, which gives me a plus two.
Matt: Oh, right. So as you're peeing, you feel another warm tingle over one shoulder, and you feel your muscles tense a little bit, and then relax as the effect passes over you to no effect. The three pixies go, "We have to tell her. I don't trust it." And they all flutter off.
Marisha: Okay. I head back to camp.
Matt: A few hours pass. Keyleth hasn't returned. You're still reading.
Laura: Keyleth? Keyleth, dear? Shit.
Marisha: Whenever I'm back.
Laura: Shit. I go and I kick Vax awake.
Liam: Ow. Why did you do that?
Laura: Oi. Your girlfriend's not back yet.
Liam: What do you mean?
Laura: She went off prowling as Minxie and she's not home.
Liam: I take off flying.
Laura: Fucking A.
Marisha: Oh jesus. Oh man. I'm a big girl, come on.
Laura: That is not what I meant for you to do.
Matt: This is your first time really trying out your wings. You're also in a very dense forest, so there's no space. As you heroically take off, you impact. Your wing hits a branch, and you go spinning out of the way.
Liam: Can I Spider-Man from tree to tree like the werewolves did using the wings a little bit?
Matt: You're trying to. Make an acrobatics check with disadvantage.
Travis: It's like a Plinko machine.
Liam: 28.
Matt: With disadvantage? You manage to not fall on your face, but it is a very clumsy-looking ascent. You make it, but a wingspan of that size, amongst tree-tops, is going to do very little other than what your general leaping would do. You get a little bit of gliding space from point to point.
Liam: I'm still fucking asleep is the problem.
Matt: Yeah. But you don't fall. All right, so we'll say for the next couple hours you guys do-si-do in the forest until eventually you do convene. Your wings wear off, and you find yourself back at the camp, Minxie safely arriving just as you finish your final page of your book.
Sam: And it was all a dream. What a shitty ending. Who knew? It was terribly hacky and derivative, and it read like Fifty Shades of Grey.
Laura: Scanlan, you--
Sam: What? Something different about me?
Laura: I don't know. Did you do your hair differently today?
Liam: Are you shorter?
Sam: I feel so interesting.
Liam: That's impossible.
Sam: It could be.
Matt: And Scanlan goes right into the deepest slumber he's ever experienced.
Laura: Good. You guys are back, everybody's safe, everything's good?
Marisha: So I stalked a couple of fairies for several hours.
Liam: I know all this. She told me two hours ago.
Marisha: Yes, I caught him up a little bit as we were walking back. Pretty sure it is the fairies who are creating the magical barrier, and I'm pretty sure it's because we might've scared the living shit out of them, so it might've all been still our fault all along, like most things are, so we'll talk to the fairies tomorrow.
Laura: If they don't find us.
Marisha: They are actively looking for us.
Travis: They saw you.
Marisha: They saw me as a cat.
Travis: What did they do to you?
Marisha: I think they tried to cast several spells on me, and by some luck of the draw, I managed to feline my way out of them. I think they are looking for me and us, and I won't be a tiger anymore.
Laura: Can I use my ranger abilities and try to disguise where we're camping?
Marisha: Can I help hide? I'll help her a little bit.
Matt: You guys find a little alcove by one of the bigger trees nearby that has some of the roots recess inward, and you build a small camp there that's covered with thatch and branches.
Liam: Do we have any concept of what time it is in this perpetual night?
Matt: You really have none.
Laura: I'm going to get a little sleep, though, so I can get my spells back. Anybody else taking watch?
Liam: Yeah, stay up with me.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: She needs to rest.
Travis: I'll stay up.
Matt: She's already been up for four hours.
Liam: Stay up with me.
Travis: You can cuddle with me.
Liam: Don't offer that.
Travis: I know.
Marisha: Okay. I will sleep, then, I guess.
Matt: Go ahead and nap. You guys are staying up.
Marisha: I pick a space near Vax.
Matt: You guys make perception checks, both of you.
Travis: Ten.
Liam: 27.
Matt: Okay. Partway into your watch, you do see, whereas there was the very faint, ever-present falling of the fey lights, you do see what looks to be two brighter lights that are traveling together, shifting about a little ways past your sight.
Liam: Do you see that?
Travis: Yeah, fireflies.
Liam: No. Well, sort of. Let's watch them. I don't think we should go out. I think we should let the group rest.
Travis: What, the little lights?
Liam: No, your friends. We'll let them sleep unless those things come closer.
Travis: Oh.
Liam: Are they coming closer, or are they keeping their distance?
Matt: They're keeping a distance. They don't seem to notice you.
Laura: They might've heard you.
Matt: All right, they come pretty close, actually. They start heading in your direction. Do you guys do anything? Are you going to stay quiet? What do you do?
Liam: Don't move. I go stealth.
Travis: I freeze in an exotic pose.
Matt: Make a stealth check with advantage because of the camouflage that she put.
Liam: Do I have that camouflage?
Matt: You already have your crazy bonuses, but yeah, take advantage on that.
Liam: 25.
Travis: Eight.
Matt: Total of eight? With advantage?
Travis: A six and a two.
Liam: Come on, Grog! Come on.
Matt: All right. As they drift past, you hear a fart, which isn't what catches their attention. It's the pause after, and Grog uncontrollably laughing at it, partially because the intent of Keyleth staying close to Vax while you guys were resting, and it went in her direction.
Marisha: I shuffle uncomfortably in my sleep. I don't know why I just had a nightmare.
Matt: You watch as two of these fluttering points of light about ten feet out.
Liam: I'm staying still.
Matt: Stay there for a second, and then go darting off into the distance.
Travis: One look and they ran.
Liam: We have to talk about your diet.
Travis: What?
Liam: Your diet! Do you eat any greens at all?
Travis: Yeah, pickled herring, and I've been grabbing stuff as we walk through.
Marisha: That just happened. He wants to talk about your IBS, and there are lycans.
Liam: I crawl over to my sister and shake her and say: wake up!
Laura: What?
Liam: Don't fly away like I did. Oh, wait, your broom's over there, all right. They are watching us. They came in close, and then they left, so I don't think we're safe anymore.
Laura: So we fucking should get out of here?
Liam: Maybe, yeah.
Laura: Wake everybody up!
Travis: No, look. We've got to talk to them anyway, right? We're not going to run.
Laura: At least we can prepare ourselves.
Travis: How?
Taliesin: Sleeping.
Travis: Yeah, just keep sleeping.
Laura: I wake Percival up.
Travis: No!
Laura: Percy.
Taliesin: What? Yes?
Laura: Hi, grumpy.
Taliesin: What?
Laura: We've been discovered by fairies.
Taliesin: That's nice.
Laura: Get ready to use your charming wiles.
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: I'm going to let Scanlan sleep a little bit more, because he looks fucking exhausted.
Liam: That's it, you put him back to sleep? You go back to bed, then.
Laura: All right, fine. Can we make things look fancy around here so when they all come back, we look like we're ready to talk to them?
Taliesin: I slowly crawl out. I pull out a piece of parchment, and I write: Hello, fairies. We're napping. And I put it on the tree above us and go back to sleep.
Liam: You're letting Whitey go back to sleep, then?
Laura: Whitey? Are you calling him Whitey as a nickname?
Liam: Yeah. I think it's apt. Fuck it. I go back to bed. I spoon Keyleth and fall asleep.
Marisha: I'll allow it.
Travis: I actually go back to sleep, too.
Laura: What in the fuck is going on here? How is this happening?
Matt: Vex, you're the only one awake.
Taliesin: All right, fine, my watch. I'll get up.
Laura: I'm going to sit up.
Taliesin: I sit up and take the watch.
Laura: Oh, you know what, I'm going to put out the little gold tea set, and I'm going to act like we're welcoming them to tea whenever they show up.
Taliesin: I will take the watch, and I will make some tea with the tea set.
Travis: The cups are bigger than they are. Oh, you made drowning pots for us all. How lovely. It's going to be a threat.
Laura: I never did actually find out what this tea set does.
Taliesin: We're about to find out, then, aren't we?
Laura: Oh, you know what, and I take out my old wooden music box that I discovered.
Liam: Yes, pull out all of your cursed items.
Laura: And I wind it up and make some pretty music.
Sam: Like a crazy grandma in the woods.
Taliesin: I am joining you for this ridiculous tea party.
Laura: I like it, thank you. Don't drink out of the teacups, because I really think they might be cursed. Seriously, Percy, I know it's appealing to you, but don't get cursed again, all right?
Matt: All right, so. You guys prepare your tea. You set up your music box. A couple more hours pass, the rest of you coming to a semblance of a restful sleep. The only ones who didn't get a restful sleep on this would be Vex and... Percy?
Taliesin: I specifically did not join those conversations.
Matt: You barely got in there. You do not get your spells back, unfortunately. Scanlan, you reduce your exhaustion by one point.
Sam: Oh, I got sleep?
Matt: You did, yes, so you're down to only one point, which means your speed is no longer halved.
Sam: Oh, I had two points of exhaustion? I thought it was just one.
Matt: You wanted to keep reading.
Liam: Hair is shiny, eyes are bright.
Taliesin: Your charisma's up by two, which means--
Sam: No, I already did it.
Matt: At this point, towards the end of this watch here, you see as a cluster of seven lights now start swarming in your direction.
Laura: Oh, good.
Marisha: Are we awake?
Matt: You're starting to come to as Vex begins to nudge you guys to consciousness.
Sam: Do I get spells back?
Matt: You do.
Laura: Oi, Scanlan. Sing a happy tune about how much we love fairies.
Sam: Oh, sure. I love singing happy tunes. About fairies?
Laura: Yeah, like how pretty they are.
Sam: How about I just sing a happy tune?
Laura: Sounds good, too.
Sam: I'll sing a song about myself. The best kind of songs. (singing) Cube, glorious cube! You really should try it. If you're in the mood, I won't even hide it. I'll pull down my trousers for any gal or dude, O cube, glorious cube, wonderful cube, magical cube!
Matt: The sounds of your voice, accompanied by the music box playing through the air as the Wisher pixies arrive, at least this troupe of them come rushing up. You see they are all behind one that appears to have-- while all of them have a slight white with a hint of pinkish glow, there is one that has a deeper purple halo around it. As they all approach, they stop, and the purple one goes up to the paper that was left on the tree. "So! Enjoy your nap?"
Laura: I wasn't quite rested, but it was lovely here.
Taliesin: There is tea. Would you like some tea?
Sam: We might have straws.
Taliesin: I am tempted to fashion the thing that I use to pour my molds into little sippy cups that can be shared.
Laura: We've been trying to prepare for your coming. Unfortunately, we don't have very much to make it appropriate.
Taliesin: We are aware we need to have a conversation. Good morning.
Matt: "Yes, we do." And the other pixies flutter down to the ground. She flutters down, as well, and they approach the tea set.
Marisha: I say good morning to them in Sylvan.
Matt: They all look over, and they give a slight curtsey bow. You now have a closer look at them. They're all various lithe young men and women with little leaf-based or vine-based bits of attire. The one that has the purplish halo is an older one with whiter hair that's a little wild around the face. You can see the wings themselves look a little more tattered and worn. She's probably the respected elder of the troupe that's there. As they all step forward, she inspects the tea set and looks up. "So."
Laura: I'm afraid there's been a misunderstanding. You see, we were trying to pass through these woods, and we ran into a band of very big, very mean-looking wolves.
Matt: All the pixies at once go (gasps) and they pull back. The purple one says, "You ran into them?"
Sam: Not only did we run into them, but they forced us against our will to attempt to do you harm.
Laura: Which, of course, we didn't want to do.
Taliesin: So we thought we would just trick them.
Matt: The pixies at this point are darting around to each of you. You each have a pixie hovering right in front of you, quickly inspecting your bodies. You can see now the central one, the glowing purple, is in the air, backing up.
Marisha: They didn't bite any of us or get any of us. We're not infected.
Matt: They all look around. You see the pixies all turn back, looking, okay. One of them by Grog turns and goes, "He's been wounded!" Pointing at his head.
Laura: His cut?
Taliesin: Oh, that was him.
Sam: I cut his eyebrow, and then he fucked himself by trying to smash through the barrier that I assume you created.
Travis: Yeah, don't go through that wall. But bidet.
Taliesin: We're on a mission, though.
Laura: A great mission.
Matt: "If we are to continue this conversation, we need comfort. He is disquieting. Allow us."
Laura: What are you going to--
Travis: No, it's cool. Please, do as you will.
Liam: What are we talking about?
Travis: Let them feel at ease. Go ahead.
Matt: The older one glances over at you. Make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: Natural one. (laughs)
Matt: As you grin, you watch as his flesh goes an even duller gray color as his entire body turns to solid stone.
Liam: Is that temporary? Is that going to last?
Matt: "Now. Let us have a conversation."
Laura: Okay.
Matt: "So. You've encountered these beasts."
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: And they instructed us to kill you.
Taliesin: No, not to kill.
Laura: They wanted us to hurt you. To destroy your circle of stones.
Matt: "They sent you to come and kill us and destroy our home?"
Liam: We misspoke. To destroy this circle.
Matt: "You speak in many words that do not meet as one thought or theory."
Taliesin: Well, you're a bit intimidating.
Matt: As the very tiny pixies all look at each other and look at you large folk, there's a little chuckle under their breath.
Taliesin: We are wise enough to not judge a man or woman by their size, good sir.
Marisha: We didn't want to harm you, so we thought if we just made it look to those silly, dumb lycans like we hurt you. By throwing paper balls, if you will.
Taliesin: Stop antagonizing the Grog statue.
Marisha: I did just a simple visual spell, and we tried to move on, as to not get involved.
Sam: We did everything in our power to protect you, and to not harm you. If our druid's spellcasting frightened you, we apologize, but we didn't know what else to do.
Taliesin: And we have a bog to destroy.
Laura: Yes, we're on a very important mission, and we thought it might be the quickest way to complete.
Taliesin: There's a cancerous tree that we have been sent to destroy.
Liam: Honestly, we're scared of both you and the lycan, and we just want to pass through. We want no harm for you, and unfortunately, them, either. We just want to walk on out of here.
Marisha: This is not our fight, you see.
Matt: The older one is glancing about, and a couple of the pixies drop next to her and whisper into her ear, and her eyes are still darting amongst you.
Marisha: Can I understand what they're saying?
Matt: No, they're very small, and they're very distant.
Laura: That's really, really off-putting.
Matt: It's impressive. The two pixies separate. The elder one crosses her fingers. "Few are those who would deal with such miscreants and foul entities as those wolf kin, so much as to give our little hearts a possible scare of death to our homes in an attempt to escape without but a conversation. This puts us at unease. We do not like being at unease."
Laura: Understandable. But we weren't trying to deal with them. In fact, we made no deal with them. We told them we wouldn't make a deal until we spoke with you. But we were scared. We were too scared.
Marisha: They were trying to exploit our abilities. We were being held against our will. We were threatened with life or death. There was nothing personal.
Liam: Their leader is massive. We were scared. This one wet his leg, and he's gigantic. We just didn't know what to do.
Matt: She puts her hands up. "Very well. Mistakes are made, and punishments are doled out. So. We shall return to our village. We shall lower the barrier to you, and all shall be fine."
Sam: And our gray stone friend?
Matt: "He is your punishment for your infraction. But we've learned our lessons, and you may go about your way."
Sam: How can we buy his freedom?
Liam: We've got a tea set.
Laura: How can we buy his freedom?
Matt: "There is no freedom to be bought. In these worlds, words and actions speak volumes, and you've crossed our people. Right now, we could take you all as new entries to our garden. We took but one. Be thankful you got off quite as easy. The Wishers set you free."
Laura: Thanks, Wisher.
Marisha: It's okay. I can fix it.
Sam: What? What do you mean?
Marisha: I have Greater Restoration. She left, right? That wasn't in front of her. I didn't say that to her.
Matt: Okay. She says, "Very well. Good luck on your endeavor." The rest of the pixies gather up around Grog's body, and you watch as they all glow and his stone form, as heavy as it should be, suddenly becomes weightless.
Sam: Wait.
Taliesin: Wait, no, we need that.
Marisha: Oh, they're taking him. Oh! I cast Earthbind on Grog.
Sam: Earthbind?
Marisha: Yeah. It should ground him.
Matt: It does. He slams into the ground with all the weight of a falling stone goliath into the dirt. At which point the pixies immediately go off and turn around. "You would cast incantations towards us?"
Marisha: No, I cast it to my friend, who is about 12 foot tall and a giant target. Come on, don't make stories up where there aren't any.
Matt: "Stories, nothing."
Marisha: What? You fairies are manifesting these ideas, okay? You are creating a dichotomy that does not exist.
Matt: They all gather and begin to whisper to each other, their heads darting around.
Marisha: Oh, see, look. They're doing it right now.
Matt: At this point  "This display is enough. Your words and your actions speak in difference, in entirely opposing directions. If you are to continue to throw these words, these deceptions, these lies in our direction, then perhaps we'll take you all for our garden."
Taliesin: I wouldn't advise that.
Matt: "Then let us take him, and you move on with your lesson." And they go and pick him up once more.
Laura: Wouldn't you rather have a song? Wouldn't you rather have-- how often do you get a performance?
Taliesin: I cast Hex on the main pixie.
Matt: You do?
Taliesin: I do.
Sam: That's it, it's on. I call out to the main pixie: Wait. What's your name?
Matt: At this point, you guys watch as a shadow all of a sudden darts up from the ground and clings around the pixie. She whips around, at which point you now hear another (impact) as the stone Grog slams into the ground, all the pixies scattering around.
Marisha: See, that is what it looks like when an incantation is targeted at you.
Taliesin: It's not very nice, is it?
Matt: You now watch as all of the various very gently falling fairy lights begin to (flitting) and be absorbed by the pixies of the forest. As their glows intensify, the purple halo growing, you see the central elder figure of the Wisher pixies say, "At least our allegiances now lie bare." I need you all to roll initiative.
Laura: Can you quickly--
Marisha: It's one action. It's one fucking action. I just looked it up for that reason. That's not good. That's not a good initiative at all.
Laura: Natural 20 on an initiative. I don't know what I can do to them.
Taliesin: 27.
Marisha: I notoriously roll terrible on my initiative.
Sam: How many are there?
Taliesin: A lot, but they die quick.
Marisha: Are they going to form a--
Laura: A Voltron?
Marisha: That's exactly what I was thinking, yeah.
Laura: I feel like it would be easier to hit if it was a giant Voltron.
Liam: Oh, that angle is not going to be kind to those trees.
Taliesin: What's the best check to give him? I can give him disadvantage on an ability check. So wisdom or intelligence?
Liam: The werewolves were honorable. These guys are assholes.
Laura: Yeah, I know.
Taliesin: I feel better about killing them.
Laura: Me, too. They're dicks. They were going to take Grog.
Marisha: They were trying to take Grog. Fucking assholes. I feel like we were very reasonable, considering how unreasonable we normally are.
Sam: We were put between a rock and hard place.
Marisha: And a hard Grog.
Sam: And we had no choice. Really. It was a bad situation.
Laura: Grog is on the ground? Oh, he is on the ground.
Matt: Yes, he is.
Travis: I'm stoned.
Sam: If Grog is permanently corrupted, we know that we can download a fresh one from Backblaze.com. (laughter)
Travis: Beautiful. That was too good.
Taliesin: Just couldn't let it go. I'm so sorry. I just couldn't let it go.
Marisha: Was that my fault this time? it was a mild combination. I might have contributed.
Sam: We should've fought the fucking werewolves.
Laura: Yeah, we should've, but we didn't, because we're idiots.
Matt: All right, initiative order. We have 25 to 20?
Taliesin: 27.
Laura: 27, as well, with a natural 20.
Sam: 21 for me.
Taliesin: We are some fast motherfuckers.
Sam: I got sleep.
Matt: All right. 20 to 15?
Laura: Those fairies are so spread out. I thought they would all be together.
Matt: As soon as they dropped, they fanned out.
Taliesin: We were trying really hard not to shoot first.
Matt: 15 to ten?
Liam: 13.
Matt: Ten to five? And Grog is stone. Sorry, buddy.
Marisha: You first, bud. Coming for you first.
Matt: All righty. Top of the round, Percy and Vex, you're up first.
Taliesin: Where's the one that I hexed?
Matt: The one that you hexed, which I will mark here, looking overhead you can see is the one with the brighter, vibrant glow right there. That is currently the one, so I'm marking that as the Hex right there. There you go.
Taliesin: Do you think they're really hard to hit because they're small?
Laura: Probably. I'm going to move over to my left.
Matt: Okay. Here?
Laura: Yeah. A little bit more. I want to line them up in a cone, so if I can get as many in a cone as I can.
Matt: Okay. Do we have the cone templates? Because they're not by me right now.
Laura: It's a 60-foot cone there that I have. It's a big cone.
Matt: It's a very big cone.
Liam: What about just a comb?
Laura: I want to cast Hunter's Mark on the shiny one that he hexed, as well.
Matt: Hunter's Mark on that one as well.
Laura: Double. They're weak, you guys! Milk jug rings, take them out.
Matt: Thank you, Zack. I appreciate that. So 60-foot cone. You can get four of them into it.
Laura: That gets the mamba jamba? Okay, good. That's what I want.
Marisha: What we don't want to do is spread out too much and get fucked.
Laura: Conjure Barrage.
Matt: Conjure Barrage. All right. Dexterity saving throw. All right.
Laura: It's a 15 for me.
Matt: That's a success. Success. Success. 18, 19, 19. And 16. All succeed.
Laura: So they take half. 3d8, halved.
Matt: So roll damage, halved. Grog's stone form takes full damage.
Laura: Oh. Sorry. 15, halved. Plus Hunter's Mark damage on the--
Matt: On the one, so roll for that one.
Laura: I got three on that.
Taliesin: Don't forget to Trinket.
Laura: That's one action, isn't it?
Taliesin: Is it an action?
Matt: It's an action to cast, yeah.
Laura: So I can't use Trinket yet, because I already did something.
Matt: All righty, so as everyone gathers up, immediately as the fight begins you can see as Vex puts a Hunter's Mark on the purple glowing pixie and then pulls out an arrow, releases it, and then it scatters into a blast of various shards of sharpened wood, metal, and stone that goes shooting into the nearby trees. You can see the bark of the nearby tree trunks being covered with various bits of ranger shrapnel as most of the pixies try and avoid, but most getting blasted with some semblance of impact. That's going to end your turn, unless you want to move some more.
Laura: I want to duck behind that tree, like it's going to do anything.
Travis: How many points of damage was that?
Matt: To you? To your stone form? That was 15.
Travis: 15.
Matt: From the blast of the impact you can see parts of the stone get rough a little bit at certain points.
Travis: I can break.
Laura: You can break.
Matt: Statues can break, and that's bad.
Laura: That's super bad.
Travis: Somebody lost an arm that way.
Matt: Do you want Trinket to move at all?
Laura: Trinket runs and stands next to Keyleth.
Matt: All right. Got it. That brings us to Percy, same turn.
Taliesin: Taking a shot with Retort, with the little pistol at the fucker I've marked. Dear god almighty. 16 to hit?
Matt: 16 does not hit. As you try to shoot, this tiny little glowing thing darts out of the way and the bullet goes wide.
Taliesin: Shoot again. That's better. 25.
Matt: That does hit.
Taliesin: Okay. It has been way too long since I've done this. It's making me a little nervous. There we are. That's 11 points of piercing damage. That's with three points of necro in there.
Matt: All right, so that's your second attack. This time you do see as it moves out of the way you compensate for it and fire, this time you see the purple glow flicker as it takes an impact and recaptures itself into its original position.
Taliesin: And I'm going to take one more shot at it with-- remind me if I can do this-- deadeye with sharpshooter?
Matt: Deadeye sharpshooter? You can do that.
Taliesin: All right, deadeye sharpshooter. Thank god. This is just sucking. Oh my fucking god. I miss.
Matt: Okay. You don't misfire. All right, so after the second shot hits, you fire, trying to compensate a third time, but the pixie actually stays in position and your fire goes wide once more.
Taliesin: All right. Now I'm diving behind that tree. Bottom right. Heading that way, yeah.
Matt: Cool, that ends your turn. The purple pixie leader, the mystic you mentioned before, now angrily comes fluttering forward, as you both have vanished. Seeing this little circumstance, is going to, from this position, look towards you at the very front, Vax.
Liam: Shit.
Matt: It begins reciting under its breath.
Sam: I'll do Counterspell at level six.
Marisha: Oh snapricot.
Taliesin: Did you just say "snapricot?"
Marisha: I'm a fucking hipster.
Taliesin: This is going so poorly.
Liam: (Gollum voice) Nasty.
Matt: As you cast your Counterspell, mark off your 6th-level spell. It finishes the incantation, as it does, a bit of arcane energy sprays forth from its fingertips and dissipates around it.
Liam: Aw, that's sad.
Matt: Darts backwards.
Laura: Out of camera view.
Matt: All right, Scanlan you're up.
Sam: They're so far, and I don't know what they can do. Probably a lot. I'll step towards that tree in front of me, in front of the bear and the girl.
Matt: That's far as you can get.
Sam: That cluster of the pixies over there? I'll see if I can get three of them in a Fireball.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: If I can, the leader and the ones closest to the leader. But I don't know if I'm within range.
Matt: Okay, you just using a single charge for it?
Sam: Oh yeah, I have lots of charges, don't I?
Matt: How many came back? You have to roll for the last couple of times you've gotten a full rest.
Sam: I haven't used them in a long time.
Matt: Yeah that's true, actually.
Sam: I'll use two. A 4th-level spell, right?
Matt: 4th-level Fireball.
Sam: So it's 9d6.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Range is 150 feet. Radius is 20 feet.
Matt: All right. As you pull out the wand and release it, one of the nearby pixies-- It has no effect.
Taliesin: Assholes.
Sam: Wait, they can do that, too?
Matt: Oh my god, other people can counter.
Liam: Passive-aggressive dungeon master! Oh, that's so sad. Oh.
Matt: So the wand once again sputters out, as well.
Sam: It's dead? Or it still might work after that?
Matt: Well, it might still work after that.
Sam: That one use, okay. Can I move any more, or am I all moved out?
Matt: That's the end of your movement.
Sam: I'll inspire Keyleth. I'll turn to her and say: (singing) It's been a hard fey's night, and you've got to unfreeze Grog. It's been a hard fey's night, because we've been fighting like a dog.
Marisha: Okay, I can do that.
Matt: That the end of Scanlan's turn? All right. It's now the pixies' turn.
Liam: Damn it, Bobby.
Laura: They're all super magic, super-duper magic.
Matt: Actually, it's going to stay here, and before it moves... that will be in range. If I could have Keyleth make a wisdom saving throw.
Marisha: This is my bailiwick, yo.
Taliesin: You also have an inspiration die.
Marisha: I have an inspiration die. Ooh, I don't think I'll need it, though. 28.
Matt: 28, yeah. No effect on you whatsoever.
Marisha: You even lift, bro? Come at me, bro. Got the John Cena going on.
Matt: This one over here, as it flutters by after seeing you attempt to cast the spell, Scanlan, I need you to go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Oh, boy. Advantage against magic.
Matt: That's magic in general?
Taliesin: Yeah. I'm looking at it. Yeah, advantage versus magic on his saving throw.
Matt: From what, though?
Sam: I don't know, bard shit.
Marisha: Is it because War Caster?
Matt: No, War Caster is advantage on concentration checks to maintain.
Sam: No it's not War Caster. It's something else.
Taliesin: It's on his sheet, which means he found it somewhere.
Marisha: And it's typed. It's typed up; it's not written in.
Sam: I probably didn't get it anyway, actually. Both rolls were shitty, and I only rolled a total of five on the better one.
Matt: So as the pixie darts to the side, it mutters something underneath it and raises its hands up. Scanlan, all of a sudden your body shimmers for a second, and you guys watch as the already small gnome becomes even smaller.
Laura: We're going to die.
Matt: He is now a badger.
Sam: I'm a what? I'm a badger?!
Matt: It then continues its movement over here by the side of the tree.
Sam: Gnome Cunning, Matt.
Travis: I tried to be diplomatic.
Taliesin: A lot of good it did you.
Laura: Why'd you do that?
Liam: That's Scanlan's bag, man.
Travis: Yeah, but I thought we were all-- never mind.
Taliesin: We would be getting our asses kicked by a group of werewolves right now.
Travis: People were preparing tea, you were being cordial. I was trying to be disarming. Next time, everything dies.
Sam: This is our punishment for--
Taliesin: Trying to settle this amicably.
Matt: For intelligence, wisdom or charisma--
Sam: Yeah, that was a wisdom.
Matt: Yeah, so you're fine. Universal, so strength saves, it doesn't help for any of those.
Sam: It's just saves against magic for those three things.
Matt: This other one here, glancing over and seeing you there, is going to look towards you. I need you to make a wisdom saving throw.
Liam: I've got advantage. Good, I got a 19.
Matt: 19. You have advantage from?
Liam: Being a half-elf. Oh, it's not charm, is it? Then the first one was shitty. Ten or 11, somewhere around there.
Matt: You are a kitty cat.
Liam: Can I use luck to take my second roll? I have luck left?
Matt: You have one luck left?
Liam: I have two luck left, after sleeping.
Matt: Yeah, technically.
Liam: Okay, so the second was a 17. Plus two, would've been a 19.
Laura: So you're not a kitty cat?
Liam: No, I really would like to be a kitty cat.
Sam: What happened?
Liam: I asked if I could use one of my lucks instead.
Sam: So wait, he's not a kitty cat?
Liam: In my heart, I am a kitty cat.
Laura: Grog is stone.
Liam: There's worse things than being a kitten, right?
Matt: This one over here leans towards you, Keyleth. I need you to make another wisdom saving throw.
Marisha: Already? Come on. Come at me, bro.
Liam: We should have all been pixies from the beginning.
Marisha: Okay, 27.
Matt: 27. You never roll low on those wisdom saving throws. It's really frustrating.
Marisha: Wise as fuck.
Matt: All righty, now comes to Vax.
Liam: Click go the boots. I'm going to run 12 squares and squat down just north of Grog. I'm not going to shit on you. I think I can make it all the way around to the other side of Grog, and I'm going to dagger, dagger, dagger at queen of the pixies there.
Matt: Right there? Okay, go for it.
Liam: Okay, first is shit, second is a natural 20. Third is an 18.
Matt: Okay, second two hit.
Liam: All right. Yeah, but it's not anything fancy. That's the weakness of the rogue. Where's my pyramid? There it is. So the first one which was the critical is big 11 for the first one on a critical. And the second one, I'll put poison on it, as well. Seven for the damage, and it's a DC of 15, for poison.
Matt: For poison, it does not succeed. It is poisoned.
Liam: That's 2d10. 14 with poison.
Matt: Nice. All right, so now the mystic, the central pixie is fluttering, but it's not looking amazing. All right, so that ends your turn? All righty. That brings us to Keyleth.
Sam: Shouldn't have gone in that cave, man.
Marisha: Can I dash and go a little bit further and still do an action and lose a bonus action? No, it's either like run or nothing?
Matt: A dash is an action, meaning you move and then your dash, to move more, is your action.
Marisha: Okay. Here's what I'm going to do, I'm going to try and start making my way towards Grog, I'm going to do the 30 feet towards him.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Do I see the fairy leader?
Matt: You see her with a little bit of cover.
Marisha: I'm going to blow my 6th-level spell. I'm going to cast Sunbeam, and Sunbeam her in the face.
Taliesin: Does that go through her? There's one on the other side of her.
Marisha: Oh! Does it go through to the one on the other side behind her?
Matt: No, it would go in this direction. She's right here.
Marisha: I was looking at the red one, closer to me. I don't have the fucking pointer!
Sam: That's Grog, the red thing near you is Grog.
Marisha: No, not that fucking red-- this one. Yes, that one. Jesus. And the one behind it.
Matt: All right, so. As you muster your Sunbeam, the leader, who has not used her reaction yet, is going to attempt to counter that.
Marisha: No!
Matt: 6th-level, though, so it isn't an auto-counter. She has to roll for it.
Sam: It's a contested thing.
Marisha: Fucking bitch. I said bitch! I was trying to be nice to you fairies!
Matt: Counterspell, so that DC is 16. That is a 19.
Marisha: No, it's not!
Matt: It is 19, unfortunately.
Marisha: Goddamn it, that was a 6th-level spell!
Matt: I know.
Liam: The grace and poise of the Ashari.
Matt: As you muster your Sunbeam, the currently wounded, poisoned-- let me check one thing real fast. On attack rolls and ability checks, because she's poisoned, she has disadvantage and has to roll again.
Marisha: That's right, she does!
Matt: A natural 20.
Travis: No way.
Matt: Yeah. So it still counters it. So you go to put your Sunbeam, the light begins to build up into the middle of your grasp, as you're about to unleash it and she darts up from behind the side of the tree and unleashes a torrent of arcane energy that feels like a gust of warm wind hits and scatters the Sunbeam from your grasp, the spell lost.
Liam: Umbrasyl, in the can. Fairies, dead as shit.
Marisha: You guys are supposed to have good parades.
Matt: All right, that's the end of your turn Keyleth? All right. Garmelie turns invisible.
Laura: Of course he does.
Sam: Don't they want to Counterspell that?
Laura: Oh no, and he took out a tree while he was at it!
Matt: Got to find a way to fix the glare on the mat without the angle falling forward. All right, top of the round, Percy and Vex, you guys are up.
Laura: You go.
Taliesin: Okay. From my vantage point I'm going to sit down, take out Bad News, take another deadeye sharpshooter with Bad News at the big fat fucker by the tree.
Matt: As of right now, technically, you have no sight on her.
Taliesin: I don't?
Matt: You are way back there, and she is completely behind the tree.
Taliesin: Can I take a step out to the left? As long as she has less than three-quarters cover, I'm okay.
Matt: Right, so you would have to move-- she's very tiny, and the tree that's probably five foot or more thick. So based on her size, as part of her advantage in using these trees is you'd have to get over here before you can see her.
Taliesin: Okay, so I'll move to my right a little bit, then, and I will shoot that fucker that's right in front of me.
Matt: All right. This one?
Taliesin: Yep. Sharpshooter and with deadeye.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's a natural 20. That makes the grit go away, anyway, so nice.
Travis: Fucking golden snitch.
Taliesin: That actually wasn't the golden snitch. I was just feeling like they had something on me. Okay, so this is double the dice?
Matt: Yeah, you roll the dice and then double that.
Taliesin: Roll the dice, double it, and then I add everything. Lordy, this is going to be disintegration. Six, 12, 22, 28 points of damage.
Matt: 28 points of piercing damage?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: To that one, all righty. That's adding the sharpshooter?
Taliesin: Yeah, I rolled really low.
Matt: Okay, gotcha. Okay, so you take the shot, the blast echoing throughout the trees and the treeline. You watch as the pixie takes the slug and actually gets thrown to the ground and then flutters back up, barely.
Taliesin: Flutters back up, barely?
Matt: Yeah. It was undamaged before.
Taliesin: Nothing fancy, just hitting it again.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: That's a 23.
Matt: That'll hit. Roll damage.
Taliesin: That's better. 24 points of damage.
Matt: 24 points of damage. You hear this horrible, high pitched (yelps) as the light is scattered by a burst of what looks like a tiny blood spray, and dust and smoke.
Taliesin: I call out  One! And back up behind the tree.
Marisha: Out of how many?
Matt: All right, Vex.
Laura: Okay. If I step out from behind the tree, do I have a sight on the big one?
Matt: You do have a sight on the big one, yes. It'll get cover bonuses. You'd have to get over here to see it.
Laura: Can I walk over there, then? Okay. I walk to there. I want to use my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel and attack it.
Matt: You initiate the bow, pull back the arrow, and release as it splits into three different arrows.
Laura: Natural 20.
Travis: I'm looking at it.
Matt: Jesus Christ. Okay.
Sam: Defying statistics, one roll at a time.
Laura: 12 plus 12. 24.
Matt: Okay, 24. Wait, 12 plus 12, 24? All right, so the second one hits.
Laura: And then 22 on the third.
Matt: All three hit. Even with three-quarters cover, the last one just barely hits. Roll damage on all three.
Taliesin: Kill them all.
Laura: 20 on the first hit, no-- oh shit. You double the dice? Six, that's 12.
Liam: So add six to what you were saying, originally. You said 20, so it'd be 26 if you're doubling that die.
Laura: 26 plus another five, so 31 on the first hit.
Matt: 31 on the first hit, okay.
Laura: 17 on the second.
Matt: All right.
Laura: 17 plus five is 22 on the third.
Matt: You watch as the purple light gets stapled to a tree in the back. You watch as the arrow hits her and carries her and she tries to pull herself off of the arrow as it's holding her against the distant tree and then it goes limp against it and the light slowly fades.
Laura: Oh. So I shout out  Two! Your leader's dead! You want to still fight us?
Matt: You've got two more squares of movement if you want to use them.
Laura: I move towards the tree.
Matt: This way or this way?
Laura: That way.
Matt: This way. All righty, that ends your turn. It would be her turn, but she just got stapled to a tree. Scanlan, you're up.
Taliesin: Build a dam. Sorry.
Matt: No, she didn't turn you into that. One of the other ones did, I believe.
Taliesin: Actually, the one I killed turned him--
Matt: You're right. Thank you. Scanlan has dropped beaver form.
Sam: Oh my god, I was not expecting that, and therefore have no idea what I'll do. So there's pixies everywhere?
Matt: You can only really see one of them right now. Yeah, this one's supposed to be there.
Sam: Which one?
Matt: You can see that one over there.
Sam: Is there one behind me? You can't see one that I can see, actually. There's one around the tree.
Matt: Oh, sorry, two. You can see that one, yeah.
Marisha: I'll help him first, but yeah. I can do that.
Liam: They could possibly turn on us, though.
Matt: What're you doing, Scanlan?
Sam: I wasn't expecting to move! I can't see the leader, right?
Matt: No, you can see the leader. She's fucking dead, yo.
Taliesin: She's pixie dust.
Sam: Shit! Not ready for this!
Liam: Y'all ready for this?
Sam: Shit! Okay, I'll turn around, and let's just hope that it works this time.
Laura: Wow, this is the longest--
Sam: I don't know! I wasn't expecting to move! How close am I to that one near the tree? Can I move to her?
Matt: Here? This one or this one?
Sam: The closest one to me, and how close am I?
Matt: This one's closest to you, and it's 20 feet from you.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to run to it, her, it, whatever, because I don't think they can-- well, maybe they can Counterspell this, but I'll do a Thunderwave.
Matt: You do a Thunderwave?
Sam: Yeah. At level two.
Matt: That one is going to attempt to Counterspell. Each one of them gets a Counterspell; that one's not done it yet.
Sam: I do have a sword, shit, I'm the worst at this!
Matt: So as you rush up and begin casting it sees you rushing up and its eyes go wide for a second as it instinctually puts its hands out and the Thunderwave falls flat before you.
Sam: Shit, I'm the worst at this!
Taliesin: Going to be a beaver again.
Sam: I am going to be a beaver again. That's it. That's all I can do.
Laura: I thought he was a honey badger.
Matt: Little angry badger.
Sam: Who's alive still? I'll inspire... shit, I'm failing.
Taliesin: I've never seen this before.
Laura: He's broken. It's stealing all of his energy!
Taliesin: Inspire Vax.
Sam: I'll inspire Vax.
Liam: Which one?
Sam: The girl!
Taliesin: The guy!
Sam: I don't want to inspire him. I want to inspire her.
Marisha: That's Vex.
Sam: Vex, the girl. I'll say  (singing) Vex is natural, Vex is fun! Vex is good when she's one-on-one.
Liam: I was next to go, but that's still good.
Sam: I don't know. I was a badger! I don't know what's been going on.
Matt: All right, that completes your turn. You take your inspiration dice. It is now the pixies' run. This one over here at this distance is glancing over and saw its leader get thrashed off to the side after having a series of daggers thrown into it. You attempted to cast a giant beam at that one in the distance as well, though, so I'm going to say it's going to go for you. Keyleth, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: What? Why that one? I do still have my inspiration.
Taliesin: This ain't going to be no thing. It's going to be great. It's going to be beautiful.
Marisha: Natural 20! My voice just cracked, but it's a natural 20.
Taliesin: Isn't it hilarious that we all have work tomorrow?
Marisha: It is. No, I have a recording and an audition tomorrow.
Liam: It actually rolled when you moved the paper.
Laura: When you moved the paper, you rolled it.
Marisha: No, I did, guys.
Matt: Roll it again.
Laura: I'm sorry!
Marisha: When I revealed it, it was a 20. That's okay. I'm going to do inspiration though, just for safe measure. That's good, so 20 total now.
Matt: 20 total, okay.
Marisha: That's still exciting.
Matt: As it reaches out towards you, you feel your physical body all of a sudden begins to tighten, and you flex, and it regains its composure. No effect.
Marisha: And I just give her a-- (grunts) from the corner.
Matt: This one here is going to dart past, and as it does, from tree to tree, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Straight up 15. Fuck it, I'll use luck. I've got one more. Another 15.
Matt: 15 total? All right, you are currently restrained as your body tightens up and you are unable to move, shift, take any actions.
Marisha: Did you go, too?
Liam: I was about to, but not anymore.
Marisha: Are you petrified, too?
Laura: No, he's restrained.
Marisha: Did he get turned to stone?
Matt: His body is beginning to turn to stone right now. His muscles are beginning to tense up. As this one darts past, it is going to attempt to-- I need you to make another constitution saving throw, Keyleth, as it watched it fade from the last one.
Marisha: I don't have any inspiration left. Natural 20! This is a real one, this time! A real one!
Travis: What is the deal?
Matt: We're gone for one week. You guys can save these for throughout the campaign. This is a pixie fight.
Laura: It's a really powerful pixie fight.
Matt: These are nasty in their strengths. They're not very strong in a lot of things, but the few things they have are pretty good.
Marisha: We know. We're still terrified.
Matt: Good. Well, you resist your second attempt at being petrified.
Liam: Am I restrained, or am I slowed?
Matt: You're restrained, which means you can't move. The actual definition: attacks against you have advantage. Your attacks have disadvantage.
Liam: So I can still do stuff?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: What do freezing up and haste do mixed together? Anything? Cancel out?
Matt: It doesn't cancel out, it just means that you have disadvantage on all of your attacks. Your speed is zero; you can't move.
Liam: Do I have a third attack?
Matt: You do have a third attack.
Liam: Very confusing. Feywild, man.
Sam: You're fast and slow.
Taliesin: Hot and cold.
Matt: This guy here-- I need you to make a constitution saving throw as it peeks around the tree from its current position.
Laura: You get one, and you get one! And I'm going to fail.
Sam: You've got some inspiration, lady.
Laura: I got inspiration! 21!
Matt: 21. You resist the effect.
Sam: I was right to inspire her after all. Someone's got to live!
Taliesin: To tell the tale of the death and end of Vox Machina to little people.
Laura: How many more pixies are there?
Matt: That was the last one going on its turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I am going to dagger, dagger, dagger the pixie in front of Scanlan, so I should get sneak attack? I don't have advantage, so I don't get sneak attack. That's three attacks. First one is shit. 19?
Matt: With disadvantage? Hits.
Liam: All right. Second one is 19.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: The last one is a 15.
Matt: Misses. So two hit.
Liam: Yeah, whatever. 11. And eight. 19 total.
Laura: Can you poison damage it?
Liam: No.
Matt: That one's looking pretty rough right now, actually.
Liam: And I say  (strained).
Matt: At the end of your turn, I need you to make another constitution saving throw.
Laura: Come on! Do you have any more luck?
Liam: No, I used it all up. I didn't cross it off. Two.
Matt: Vax now turns to a solid stone statue, frozen in place. Two members of your party are now turned to stone. All right, that brings us to Keyleth's turn.
Marisha: I'm going to continue my two steps towards Grog, since he was my first destination, and do Greater Restoration and unpetrify him.
Matt: Okay, what level is that spell?
Marisha: Fucking 5th.
Matt: 5th-level? Only one of them has Counterspell left, and it's going to attempt it, but since it is at 5th-level, mark that off. It does still have to roll against it. DC is ten plus five, so DC 15.
Marisha: If they make this, it's bad news.
Travis: They made it, didn't they?
Matt: Yeah. It's a 15 plus three, sorry.
Marisha: They had to make 15? Not my spell save DC or anything?
Matt: That's not how it works for Counterspell. The good news is they're out of Counterspells.
Marisha: Fucking fantastic now that I've burnt through two of my top-level ones!
Matt: You reach forward and grab Grog. You see the pulse of energy, and it dissipates. You look over at the edge of the tree. You see one of the pixies darting behind and disappears behind the trunk. That ends your turn. Back to the top. Percy and Vex.
Taliesin: I'll go. Do you want to go first? I'll go first.
Marisha: Wait! I wanted to do a bonus action! I did want to do something on a bonus action.
Matt: What do you want to do?
Marisha: Can I Alter Self my throat and (howls) give a wolf howl?
Matt: Sure, make a performance check.
Sam: Are you calling for the fucking werewolves?
Marisha: Yes, I'm calling for the lycans. Ooh, that's good. 23.
Matt: Good to know. You howl out into the woods. Ends your turn. Percy, Vex.
Taliesin: I'm going to flip around and take a shot at that jerk right there with the Retort pistol, not the Bad News. Standard shot. That's a 31 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: And that's 14 points of damage.
Matt: That one is spattered by the impact. You see the chunks of it hit the tree behind, and you see a wing right in front of you, Scanlan.
Taliesin: I reload. I flip around the other side of the tree.
Matt: Over to this side here?
Taliesin: Over to this side so I can get a good vantage point on that one that thinks it's hiding right over there. I use my bonus action to cast Hex on him.
Matt: To carry it over?
Taliesin: Yep, to carry it over. And I take a shot at him. That's 22 to hit?
Matt: 22 hits.
Taliesin: Ten points of damage. Three necrotic.
Matt: It gets shot. The impact hits the tree next to it, but it splinters and hits it, takes some damage but not a whole lot.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn an action surge and take three more shots at it.
Matt: You can do that. You're ignoring the cover because of your sharpshooter feat, so go for it.
Taliesin: I'm going to roll a sharpshooter for that one, as well, which is great because I rolled a two and a natural 20. That's natural 20 with sharpshooter. That also means that I lose that grit. This is going to be great. That's great. Ten, 20, 30, 36 points of damage.
Laura: How many fairies are left?
Matt: You have currently two fairies left.
Laura: I don't see them on the board from where I am.
Matt: No, you don't see them. They're hidden.
Taliesin: I'm taking two more steps, and I'm getting that next fairy that thinks he can fucking hide from me.
Matt: There are two behind this tree and one behind this tree.
Taliesin: I'm taking one more step out so I can see him. Actually, I have pretty good sight, don't I?
Matt: From there, you can still see him.
Taliesin: I've got two more shots. I'm going to do the same thing with the sharpshooter deadeye combo. That's right. I can't get Hex until next round, though. 27 to hit.
Matt: Hits. Damage on that one?
Taliesin: That's 16 points of damage.
Matt: The pixie gets hit and holds itself against the tree. Its wings stop fluttering. It looks over at where the impact came from and stares down at you.
Taliesin: Another shot at him. Same deal.
Laura: I can spot him now because I can see where Percy's shooting at, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: 28.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: Eight points of damage.
Matt: It gets another hit. This one impacts just near it and clips one of its wings. It's still holding in there.
Taliesin: I dive back around the tree, and that's the end of my turn.
Laura: Where was it that he was shooting at?
Matt: Over this way.
Laura: Can Trinket reach it?
Matt: Trinket can try. Trinket's not going to be able to get there, though.
Laura: Then I'm going to attack it. Can I attack it from where I am?
Matt: You currently have no way of seeing it right now unless you move far enough in that direction. You may.
Laura: I'm going to try to get into sight.
Matt: That's as far as you can get. I would say it has three-quarters cover, so you can attack it, but it gets plus five to its AC.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to attack it. 23?
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: Then I'm going to attack it again with my blazing bowstring. 26.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: Can I move my Hunter's Mark over?
Liam: Eye squint says no.
Matt: Sure. Because it's a bonus action, you would've done it.
Laura: Thanks, man! Okay, seven plus seven. 22 on the first hit. 24 on the second hit.
Matt: (arrows loosed) Off to the side. One arrow actually grabs it by the shoulder and hits it against the tree there, and as it tries to pull the arrow out, which is this giant shaft that's shattered its shoulder entirely, it looks back at you as you take its head off its shoulders.
Laura: Teeny tiny little piece of shit!
Travis: The cutest swear ever.
Laura: I can't move anymore?
Matt: No, that's as far as you can move. Does that end your turn? Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Do I see any of them?
Matt: You do not.
Sam: Shit. I'm going to run as far as I can into the open and see if I can see any of them, while I'm yelling: Where are they?
Matt: You can just barely see two of them behind that tree right there.
Sam: Behind that tree? You mean behind Grog and stuff?
Matt: Behind Grog, Vax, Keyleth, and that cluster.
Sam: Do I have a clear shot? Without killing my friends?
Matt: Depends what you're doing.
Sam: With a Lightning Bolt.
Matt: It's probably going to hit Vax, but who knows the effect lightning would have on stone?
Sam: Well, then I won't do that. I'll cast Bigby's Hand at level seven and punch into that.
Liam: Big swollen hand, fucking fat veins on the back of the hand.
Marisha: Have you been lifting, Bigby?
Laura: You're looking good, Bigby.
Marisha: You know those Hulk gloves?
Matt: At 7th-level. So it does an additional 4d-whatever it does. So which ability are you using Bigby's Hand?
Sam: Just a big old punch. Pummeling hand. Punching hand.
Matt: The clenched fist. Roll a melee spell attack against its armor class. So roll a d20 and add your spell attack bonus.
Sam: 25.
Matt: That hits. Roll 8d8 force damage.
Sam: 8d8? I don't even have any.
Taliesin: Here's two more d8.
Matt: It's 4d8, but because you did it two levels higher, it's 8d8.
Taliesin: Roll them twice. Whoa!
Marisha: Oh shit. You're a force to be reckoned with. They were all above seven.
Taliesin: You're going to leave an impression in the tree.
Sam: 45.
Matt: Where once there was a pixie, there is a brief spatter of reddish-pink mist, and nothing thereafter. Bigby's Hand has sent it so hard to its afterlife that there is a small black mark on the tree nearby where it once was, just an echo of its existence at one point.
Taliesin: You just clapped a fairy to death. That's actually literally the opposite.
Marisha: High five! Aw.
Sam: Is that all the pixies?
Taliesin: There's one left.
Laura: We shouldn't kill it! See if it can unfreeze our friends!
Sam: I got nothing left. That was my action and bonus.
Matt: All right, end of Scanlan's turn. The pixie then turns about and begins running. As it disappears past the trees a little bit, you watch as a large, dark form lands right in front of it. It stops for a second, and two giant claws reach down and grasp it in its hand, pick it up, and you can see before you, Lord Ukurat is now clutching this one pixie that was trying to escape. Looks inside for a second. (chuckles) "Vengeance is tasty." (chomps) "Not very filling." Stomps forward.
Laura: Be confident!
Matt: "So. You called."
Sam: We called because our plan worked perfectly, and we were able to fulfill your deal to the letter, as we had always intended.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Marisha: Come on, Scanlan!
Sam: I think I'm still at disadvantage.
Matt: On ability checks, you are.
Sam: With disadvantage, it's a 30.
Matt: You can also add your own bardic inspiration to your ability checks now because you're level 14. But if you feel pretty confident with it--
Sam: I'm okay with 30.
Laura: Oh no! Should you add it? Add it!
Matt: It's too late.
Sam: We'll never know.
Matt: You're going to know pretty quick. As you say this, he comes forward and gets really low to the ground with his arms out at the sides, face right up to you. He could snatch you up in one bite. He goes, "Clever gnome." Stands back up. "So. One pixie, two pixie, three, four. Where is their leader?"
Taliesin: I walk over and scrape the tree.
Matt: Takes a look at it. (howls) All the rest of the various members of his clan of the Fendirs begin to arrive in the distance. "Yes, my lord?" "The mystic is dead. Wipe up the village. Come. You have the rest of your deal to attend to." Turns around and begins walking back toward the city of the pixies.
Laura: We have some friends that are stone right now.
Matt: "Then bring them along!"
Sam: Keyleth, do you need help?
Marisha: I take my last 5th-level spell to dump a Greater Restoration into Grog to bring him back from petrification.
Sam: You can't do it to two people at the same time?
Marisha: I can burn my 7th-level spell to bring back Vax.
Laura: Maybe you should do that.
Marisha: I will burn my 7th-level spell to Greater Restoration Vax and bring him back.
Matt: You come to consciousness, Grog, suddenly, in a different space than you recall, a little stiff in the joints, like you just had a really bad night's sleep across a whole pallet of broken rock.
Travis: Diplomacy really isn't that bad!
Laura: It's not so bad. Good job, Grog.
Travis: I'm going to throw my weapons in the river. Hold on, I'll be right back.
Marisha: You make a great parade balloon, by the way. You look great.
Travis: Why, thank you.
Matt: Vax, as you come to, the heat of the moment, you catch your breath again, and feel that achiness in your joints.
Liam: I do, I literally do.
Laura: Doesn't feel so good, does it? Hey, remember when I was made into stone? We're twinkies.
Liam: Twinkies? I don't think that's the term you're reaching for.
Travis: All the wolves are back. What happened?
Taliesin: We are going to finish off the fairies.
Travis: Oh, really?
Taliesin: Yes, really.
Travis: Oh, so something happened, didn't it?
Taliesin: It did.
Sam: Sorry, Grog.
Taliesin: It was all your fault, really. You were very helpful.
Marisha: To be fair, I tried. Those fairies are shifty little shits.
Travis: Really? They fought hard? We're going to kill more now?
Sam: Probably.
Travis: Any tips? Advice?
Taliesin: Hit hard, repeatedly.
Sam: Don't use any of your lower-level spells.
Travis: Don't think that's a problem.
Taliesin: No, you burned your lower-level spells.
Marisha: I am burnt out on all my higher-level spells.
Travis: Are we cool with the wolves now?
Taliesin: We're starting to be.
Laura: We have to go finish what we started, though. They want us to still desecrate the stones.
Liam: Scanlan?
Sam: I'm ready. I've eaten a lot of things today.
Matt: Garmelie appears behind one of the trees. "Is everything cool? Everything good?"
Marisha: Oh my god, you're still here!
Matt: "Okay. No, I was-- got you guys' back."
Laura: Did you draw a lot of the fight? I hope you did, because we kicked some ass there.
Matt: He opens his sketch pad, and you can see there's a bunch of hastily drawn sketches of Vax turned to stone with his finger up his nose, Grog in the ground with his stone thumb up his butt, smiling with his other thumb up in the air like he was. And the rest of you fumbling your attacks as the pixies are laughing.
Laura: Sweet. Nice. Very good. That tree just moved.
Taliesin: They do that here.
Matt: Welcome to the Feywild. So you guys make your way nightward? Following the Fendirs?
Taliesin: I guess it's the only way out of here.
Matt: You journey with them. They make a pretty quick pace. Even at your fastest, you resort to tracking them. They're moving with quite alacrity and they know this forest really well. As you guys begin to approach the outskirts of the little grove where the Wishers existed, you see a heavy battle has just begun to calm down. You see two additional wolf statues now stand amongst the area, but the abodes have been destroyed. You see that the tiger has grabbed a pixie and tears it in half. A couple others that have been darting off in the distance, trying to escape, three more of the wolves jump up into the trees, and you see them jumping from branch to branch before their lights--
Marisha: We tried. I didn't want this to happen.
Taliesin: It's a violent world.
Matt: At this point, they all begin to slowly gather again towards the center of the town, or what used to be the pixie town. From the treetop, (boom) Lord Ukurat lands next to the stone circle, looks out towards you guys, even beyond the tree line.
Sam: Grog, care to do the honors?
Travis: Absolutely. I walk up to Lord Pup.
Liam: I'm going to follow close behind Grog.
Matt: All the rest of the Fendirs, which are now a few more in number than you initially met before. We have two more that have turned to stone, so there's now five total that are stone in the center of this village, but looks to be about nine of them now gathered up centrally to this space, Lord Ukurat in the center. They're beginning to follow in around you guys, keeping a perimeter. Ukurat looks down at you as you approach. "So. Honor comes at the end of the journey. We made a pact, and you completed your end. We complete ours. You are free to pass through this forest." As Lord Ukurat reaches down and grabs two of the stones, you can see as his fingers grab them, they're burning his palms, singeing. There's a bunch of energy pushing back on him as his fur is blown and there's a bright light emanating from the center of the circle. Wrestles them forth from the ground. As he does, there's a crack of thunder that cascades throughout the center of the forest. All of you feel the impact. The stone circle, the glowing quartz now dims and goes cold. The center where it used to be vibrant grass slowly turns to a dull gray and withers between the stones. Throws them to the ground. "Now, we are all free. You say you travel duskward to the corrupted tree, yes?"
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "I will follow as my people find a new home for tonight. Should you need my help, just call, and I will be at your back."
Laura: You are a powerful ally.
Matt: "As are you. Brethren, go. Spread. Find a home again. I will return to you once this debt is paid. Now, I'll be watching." He leaps into the treetops as the rest of the wolves begin to back away from you and vanish into the shadows of the forest.
Laura: Is there anything around that looks good to take?
Sam: Should we loot the mini city?
Taliesin: I am abso-fucking-lutely looting this city. Are you mad?
Sam: They're tiny thimbles full of nothing!
Taliesin: I have a dollhouse at home! There are things that are necessary! Jesus.
Matt: You are welcome to make some investigation checks to scour through the remains of this pixie village.
Sam: 17 for me.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23. What was it again, sorry?
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: The rest of you guys keeping back on this?
Taliesin: I'm taking the crystals, too. The dead crystals.
Matt: You take the dead crystals, and the rest of them lift up like any other crystals. They're lighter than you expected. They seem almost frail, like a volcanic rock in lightness and brittleness, but more dense. You take those, keep them to yourself. You guys look about, and most any pixie furniture has been destroyed. In searching through, you do find in some of the homes a number of well-polished gems. You find two sapphires that are worth, after looking over them for a bit, in your experience with gems, about 200 gold apiece. You find one cracked diamond. It was very well-cut at one time. As such, what would have been worth thousands of gold now is maybe close to a thousand gold at most. It can maybe be repaired or brought to somebody who can fix it up. It might be worth more. You also find what looks to be a really intricately carved onyx statue of a dog, about that big. It's really well-carved. Other than that, most everything else is just inconsequential decorations that wouldn't be much help to you, as they were smaller people.
Taliesin: I say we get to the edge, out of this forest, and then maybe call it a night.
Marisha: I'm a bit tapped on my higher-level energy, but can I maybe take a minute to ritual cast Greater Restoration on the two new statues of the lycanthropes?
Matt: Is that a ritual? I don't believe it can be cast as a ritual, can it?
Marisha: Greater Restoration? I can't take my time with it?
Matt: You would have to stay here the night and do it again.
Marisha: They'll figure it out.
Travis: The gray ground that's been burned, is it just...
Matt: Just where the circle was.
Travis: Not everything else?
Matt: No. Just the circle.
Travis: I feel like we just killed FernGully.
Laura: Yeah, I know. We did kill FernGully.
Liam: Yeah, but if they had any good in their heart, why would they be trapping travelers of any kind?
Laura: They weren't trapping travelers of any kind, they were trapping the lycans.
Taliesin: Then they trapped us!
Laura: Yeah, but then they let us out.
Taliesin: They didn't really let us out.
Sam: Everyone was bad, including us, and we lived. That's it.
Matt: You guys begin trekking duskward again, finally getting to the outskirts of the city. As you reach the outer perimeter of the forest, you reach up and you find no barrier there. It has been dispelled, and you guys step forth into the field, hearing now as you travel further northward, duskward, the gentle sounds of rushing water begin to approach. Garmelie glances past you and goes, "Well, good news. We've reached the Gilded Run."
Travis: Oh, we're here!
Matt: "Bad news, we've reached the Gilded Run."
Laura: Let's sleep in the mansion tonight.
Marisha: I'm pretty tapped out.
Sam: I would love to.
Laura: But you can't?
Sam: I used my 7th-level spell to kill a pixie.
Travis: Why is reaching the Gilded Run a bad thing?
Matt: "It's a difficult thing to pass. Those rivers are quite expedient."
Travis: Like rapids?
Matt: "Yeah."
Marisha: If we sleep, I can come prepared with lots of Control Water spells.
Sam: Maybe we can sleep in the treetops, where Lord Ukurat sleeps.
Laura: Yeah, let's sleep up in the trees tonight, before we make our way into this area.
Matt: You guys head back into the Moonbrush. You ascend up into the canopy and prepare yourselves, finding an area of branches that can be cleared to give yourself a comfortable space to stay for the evening.
Laura: You realize it's only been an hour since we slept last, but it's all nighty.
Matt: Well, travel to and from the center of the forest has taken a few hours, so it's been a while.
Taliesin: We're tapped. We had a long day.
Marisha: It wouldn't be that bad if I didn't get Counterspelled twice. Fucking fairies.
Matt: Hey, man. It's what they do.
Travis: Must've been a cool fight.
Matt: As you guys make yourselves restful and set, you all begin to fall asleep to the distant sound of howling as it gets more and more faint. The sleep takes you to prepare for the next run of your journey, next week in Indianapolis! We'll see you guys at GenCon for the next episode as you guys approach the Gilded Run and the Shademirk itself, seemingly getting closer to the end of your journey in the Feywild. We'll see how this plays out.
Travis: With werewolves in tow.
Matt: A werewolf in tow, that you know of.
Travis: Not the rest of them?
Laura: No, but Lord Big Badass is going to help us.
Travis: He's going to steal our shit.
Laura: He might try to.
Sam: We'll give him Garmelie if we have to.
Marisha: Yeah, at the break you were talking about how badly you wanted to kill things.
Laura: And you didn't get to do any of it!
Travis: I was trying to be diplomatic, all right? I checked off the box!
Marisha: You did, you tried.
Travis: Next time, napalm.
Matt: It was an unfortunate circumstance. The wound above the eye, the lack of decent diplomacy, their fear of the spread of lycanthropy--
Travis: I even gave willingly.
Taliesin: You did. You've grown.
Marisha: It was a good moment for Grog.
Laura: Hey, we're going to have werewolves everywhere now, guys. We just let it out.
Marisha: Yeah, we let the disease spread?
Travis: Not yet we haven't.
Marisha: You want to be a werewolf so bad. You're just saying that because you want to be one so bad.
Matt: Thank you so much! We'll see you guys at GenCon next Saturday at 8pm Eastern, that would be 5pm Pacific time, streaming next Saturday.
Laura: Thank you, Backblaze!
Sam: No show Thursday!
Matt: Just the Saturday show.
Marisha: Saturday.
Matt: So guys, have a good night, rest well, and we'll see you next week.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons! Tonight's going to be an interesting episode, but before we get to that, a couple of quick announcements and a couple of cool things we wanted to show you. One, our friend of the show, Kiki, who we saw previously made the awesome Fenthras bow replica for Laura over there recently decided to go ahead and also create Cabal's Ruin. Taliesin, do you want to come over here and try this on?
Taliesin: No, I'm getting into that.
Marisha: It is on your body.
Matt: Come attune to this shit, boy!
Marisha: Go sit in the corner with it for 30 minutes.
Liam: Put it on. Oh my god.
Travis: Stand in front of this table. Stand in front of this camera. No one can see you over there. Why are you getting totally naked?
Liam: It looks just like Tom Cruise's!
Travis: Stand over here!
Matt: Go over there.
Taliesin: Where?
Travis: In front of the table, you dicklord! Yes!
Sam: Someone get a camera on this guy.
Taliesin: I don't know which camera is--
Travis: Put your butt against this table! Kneel down, Taliesin!
Marisha: Taliesin, you work in film and TV. You know how this works! Get behind where we are.
Laura: No, he wants to be right there.
Taliesin: I know. (laughs)
Liam: Oh my goodness.
Taliesin: Our plan's going to go so well.
Matt: And she also made a fantastic replica of Whisper, the blade that was previously attuned by our dear rogue. Will you pass that over to Liam?
Travis: And will you hold up that mini?
Laura: You get to have that because you took two Vestiges.
Travis: This amazing mini was done by Eric Blumkiss-- I'm sure I'm messing up the name-- from Sweden. It's an incredible Grog mini that's so detailed and amazing, and I had to have it, so I promised our firstborn child to him.
Laura: Oh, good times.
Matt: That might make an appearance tonight as a proxy Grog for battle.
Taliesin: I would break everything on the way back here.
Matt: And also, since it was recently Sam's birthday.
Sam: What? A present for me? On stream?
Matt: It's from me and Marisha.
Taliesin: Happy pineapple day.
Sam: Oh, this is so exciting. What did I get? It's a great gift! Shirt-ception!
Marisha: Yay!
Sam: Part four!
Marisha: Must keep it going!
Sam: (yells) Oh man! This is the best gift! It's the gift that keeps giving.
Travis: The four of them stacked are pretty fucking incredible.
Marisha: I know, I think you've aged through the process.
Sam: Yeah. I'm going to take a picture of me. Someone can put that on a shirt. Oh man, this is amazing.
Matt: We are slowly folding into infinity. Sam's shirts will be the end of all existence.
Sam: That's so great. That's my favorite gift I've ever gotten.
Liam: That's what's inside the black spinning marble underneath Whitestone.
Sam: Oh man. Thank you, guys. That's so sweet.
Matt: Happy birthday, Sam.
Marisha: So sweet.
Matt: All right, announcements for the evening. First off, our fantastic sponsor Loot Crate is back. Sam, do you have anything?
Sam: I prepared a history lesson tonight. It's a history of crates. Ancient Greece: Zeus presents a lovely crate to the first woman on earth, a lovely gal named Pandora. It contained death and evil, corrupted the world forevermore. Egypt: 1957, the Ark of the Covenant-- sort of a crate; it carried the Ten Commandments-- is opened by Colonel Dietrich and Dr. Rene Belloq. Ghosts fly out, and it melts the faces of several Nazis, while Indiana Jones hides his face. Los Angeles, California, 1995: Rookie detective David Mills, played by Brad Pitt, receives a cardboard crate from murder suspect John Doe! It contains the head of his girlfriend, Gwyneth Paltrow. Your town, present day: you receive a small, expertly constructed crate that contains geek chic gear and apparel from The Walking Dead, Nightmare on Elm Street, Friday the 13th, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, and Halloween! Now, which would you rather get? The Ark of the Covenant? Pandora's box? A box with Gwyneth Paltrow's head in it? Or a Loot Crate, which you can use code CriticalRole to get 10% off your monthly crate. Guys, I think there's only one choice.
Marisha: That might be my favorite one. That might be my favorite one you've done. That was good.
Liam: We've got to slow you down or Loot Crate is going to poach you for ads.
Sam: That would be fine! I would much rather do these! I would do these for money every day! (laughter)
Matt: Curses! Thank you, Sam. And thank you, Loot Crate. Head up: me and Taliesin will be flying out tomorrow to be attending a convention this weekend called Another Anime Convention. Another Anime Con is in New Hampshire--
Liam: Florida.
Marisha: Boston.
Matt: No! I looked it up.
Marisha: You're not sure.
Matt: (giggles) We'll be doing panels and signings and all kinds of other fun stuff this weekend, so please come and say hi, ask questions, bring things to get signed. Come meet us; we would love to see you. It'll be a lot of fun. Also, Marisha, you have a new Signal Boost run coming up you want to talk about?
Marisha: Oh yes! We're doing a Halloween special edition. Two runs, starting Tuesday, and we're bringing back all the hosts! Taliesin and I are the first episode, and I know you guys love us, so for everyone who's like, "I'm not watching anymore because Taliesin's not the host anymore!" Now you should watch again.
Taliesin: I'm back. What are you going to do?
Marisha: You're good at the spooky stuff. You basically built our list. It was amazing. It's all good stuff.
Matt: Liam, you had a new project you want to talk about, as well?
Liam: Yes. I am continuing to be Doctor Strange in various Marvel animated things, and on digital HD, they've got a new animated feature called Marvel's Hulk: Where Monsters Dwell, and I am still the sorcerer supreme, where I say things like "eye of Tamagotchi" and "sphere of Esperanto" and other such spells. Check it out.
Laura: I'm in that.
Liam: Are you?
Laura: I'm in that with you.
Liam: Can you say who you are? Who are you?
Travis: How about no. Probably not.
Matt: The glory hosts of Hogwarts.
Laura: You'll hear me.
Liam: My name was in a press release. Laura will play some confident kickass someone or other. Like you do.
Laura: Whoa, that was double ones!
Matt: Good, you got them out of the way! Stop rolling, Laura. Save it for the battle.
Sam: Battle? Wait, we're going to battle?
Travis: Yeah, rap-battle.
Matt: I guess it depends. All right, so! Now that our announcements are out of the way, tension builds--
Laura: No! Gears of War came out this week!
Matt: Let's go ahead and dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back. So! Picking up where we left off, Vox Machina, in their journey to destroy the Chroma Conclave, a gathering of chromatic dragons that have torn through the Tal'Dorei countryside and taken up residence and calling it their domain, they've defeated Umbrasyl. They have their sights set on the next series of dragons. In the process of setting up a timeline in which they had to bait the white dragon Vorugal in the ravine outside of the ruins of Draconia, hopefully to jump on and destroy the dragon. They were approached in Whitestone by an individual that apparently was not Seeker Assum, an ally of theirs from long ago. Instead it was one of the dragons of the Conclave: Raishan, the green dragon, who had come to parley and actually offer an alliance, seemingly unhappy with the current set of rules and lack of interest from Thordak in making up his side of the bargain which was struck. Raishan has asked for your aid in destroying the swollen, dangerous red dragon. You guys asked, as a showing of faith, to have Raishan come with you to the ruins of Draconia, gather the Ravenites, and destroy Vorugal alongside you. As such, you gathered Lady Kima as an ally in this endeavor. You transported yourselves to the snow- and ice-covered ravine. Just now have taken up in Scanlan's Magnificent Mansion, and are laying down for an evening's rest. So. As you guys wake up the next morning, or before you do--
Laura: No.
Sam: We don't sleep?
Marisha: We don't sleep?
Laura: No.
Sam: Why're you waking me up?
Laura: Because I was thinking, maybe it's a bad idea to go jumping into this tomorrow. Don't you think maybe we should wait a day?
Sam: Sure?
Laura: I mean, we could watch Vorugal, see what's going on, see what his behavior is, and also prepare a little bit more with the Ravenites. But, that happening, you might have to inform them that he's not actually going to have a--
Sam: An attack?
Laura: Tomorrow.
Sam: But we literally just got back from telling them to be ready to move tomorrow morning.
Laura: I know.
Marisha: Percy, how are you feeling? You know, he seems all right.
Laura: No, he would have extra day to recover! Percy's not himself yet.
Taliesin: I am sleeping in the corner, I would assume.
Travis: He does look a little weak, even for his standards.
Marisha: A little pale.
Laura: I just don't think it's the best idea to jump into this.
Travis: (burps loudly)
Sam: So we have to go back and tell them--
Liam: Literally just got back.
Sam: And they were pissed. They were super pissed that we were there. We could go back.
Laura: Do you go back in the morning or do you go back now?
Marisha: I feel like time is of the essence here. Probably not best to wait until morning.
Sam: Tooma is not going to be pleased.
Marisha: Look, she already hates us.
Sam: That's true.
Travis: Yeah. Can't get any worse.
Liam: It could.
Travis: What, we're freeing them from a dragon. We are bearers of good tidings.
Marisha: Are we?
Travis: Yeah!
Marisha: (groans)
Travis: Now do we totally trust Tooma and the Ravenites? Do we want to give her all the details or just that we're going to be checking it out for one day more before we ring the dinner bell?
Sam: What are the details?
Travis: Well, if we have an extra day, what does that get us?
Marisha: We can maybe try and get Pike.
Travis: Ooh.
Marisha: Gives us an extra day for Pike.
Travis: How do we do that?
Sam: I don't know.
Marisha: I can go get her, theoretically, if we have an extra day.
Travis: Which I think we do. But I think we need you here, right?
Marisha: She does have the stone, right? She does have the stone? I think she has the stone.
Laura: Yeah, she has the stone.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: We're going to be setting a trap, right?
Laura: Yes.
Travis: So maybe we make that trap more better?
Laura: What exactly did you tell Tooma was going to happen?
Sam: Be ready to attack tomorrow morning. We're going to deliver a giant beast for the dragon to hunt, and that her people should be ready to strike. That's it.
Laura: Did you tell her to tell Vorugal anything in particular?
Liam: No, but we don't know if she has or not. They've got their necks on the line. I know they're not to be trusted, but they're in a precarious position, as well.
Marisha: Well, we don't want to necessarily have them jump in right away. We want them to set Vorugal on Yenk, correct?
Laura: Yes. Shouldn't she inform Vorugal that the monster is coming?
Marisha: Glorified messengers at this point.
Travis: Who's Yenk?
Laura: The big monster that we're setting for him.
Marisha: The goristro.
Travis: What's that? He's like a ram?
Laura: Yeah, a giant ram. Haven't you seen the picture? Did you see the picture?
Travis: No. I'm the only one that really appreciates pictures, and I haven't seen it.
Marisha: Oh, that's unfortunate.
Laura: I'll go grab the book from Percy as he's sleeping.
Taliesin: Roll for it!
Sam: You don't get to say roll!
Laura: You don't get to say roll for it!
Liam: I've said that, and he's ignored me, so you don't get to say shit!
Taliesin: Matt! Dad, make her roll for it!
Matt: For?
Laura: I'm just trying the big book of beasts away from Percy as he's sleeping.
Sam: He's not sleeping on it, is he?
Taliesin: It's in my possession.
Matt: Make a perception check with disadvantage.
Taliesin: All right. That'll do.
Travis: Say it so confidently.
Laura: Subtract some, because you're still really tired from being dead!
Taliesin: That's disadvantage.
Matt: And minus two on both of these rolls.
Taliesin: Oh, and minus two. That's 14.
Matt: Yeah, she slips it off you.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: This is what you see.
Laura: That's what we see, Grog!
Travis: Wait. Is that like this, is it like me?
Sam: We don't know! We haven't seen this thing.
Matt: It's clustered around a bunch of other art pieces of other demonic-looking entities, and it is by and large about twice to four times the size of anything else on the page depicted.
Travis: That's really big.
Marisha: Two Grogs? Is it like two Grogs?
Matt: There's no picture of Grog in there. You have no sense of scale.
Sam: Quick! Draw a picture of Grog, and then we'll know.
Travis: I'll draw it full scale! I put my hand on the page.
Laura: Oh, he's tiny!
Travis: Yeah, I think he's hand-held. Maybe we need like a few Yenks. Everyone can do with a few Yenks. (laughter)
Liam: Jeez. We're all about to die tomorrow or the day after.
Travis: Wait! Vax and Scanlan, when you're within, did you see Vorugal in your travels?
Sam: No, we kept out of sight in the caverns and Vorugal we don't think saw us, but we also didn't see Vorugal, either.
Travis: Do you think you could replicate your path in the daylight?
Laura: I think he would see them. What if you became a fly or something and flew down? Would he notice you?
Sam: Wouldn't see me. I don't want to speak for Vax, but if we're going back tonight, you no longer have the ability to fly, is that true? But you do, Vexy?
Laura: I do. And I can speak Draconic.
Sam: Oh, yeah. Well, that would've been helpful last time, actually.
Laura: Sorry. I didn't think about that last time.
Sam: But yes, if I were a fly-- I assume any of us can avoid his detection if we stay low and invisible. Well, yes.
Laura: All right.
Sam: Right?
Laura: Can you make me invisible?
Marisha: I can't. He can.
Sam: I can make you invisible.
Travis: Are we going to go now, or are we going in the morning?
Laura: We'll pop down tonight to talk to her one more time.
Travis: All right.
Marisha: So you're telling them?
Laura: Hold off a day. She's going to be so pissed.
Marisha: Are we going to go back and see them again? Okay, we'll just say: next morning, then you go say, "hey, we got an awesome thing for you." Okay.
Travis: Yeah. If we're summoning a few good Yenks, do we have a spot that we want to say stay away from?
Marisha: Well, they gave us a location of the stones.
Sam: She told us to release Yenk--
Travis: Oh, on the summoning stones.
Sam: The summoning circle or something like that. All right?
Travis: I've got to go pee.
Liam: Also, when we were there, we weren't allowed to bring any weapons in, so you're going to have to dump--
Laura: Nothing?!
Sam: I'm leaving mine in the mansion.
Laura: (groans)
Sam: Bring something that you don't mind putting down.
Liam: Yeah, don't bring your best.
Laura: Fenthras.
Sam: No, leave that at home.
Liam: I'll take it. I'm not going to use it; I don't know how! Barely. Woo-hoo!
Laura: Now you've got three Vestiges! Should we go, then? Can you make me invisible and we go?
Sam: I can make you invisible. You can fly us down through the cavern, but you're going to have to be super stealthy.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on us.
Sam: Okay. Don't know how that'll work if we're flying, but okay. Doesn't that cover our tracks? Oh, that's the stealth rolls thing? Okay, good. Wait, Keyleth, will you hold onto my Mythcarver sword for me?
Marisha: Sure!
Sam: I can trust you.
Marisha: Of course! (giggles)
Sam: Oh boy. That's a big smile.
Marisha: You can trust me.
Sam: Okay. Don't kill anyone with it.
Matt: Keyleth finally has a Vestige.
Marisha: I do! I was the last one, you guys! It feels-- doesn't really feel like anything.
Laura: Once you attune it to yourself--
Marisha: Sure.
Liam: Scanlan feels the same way, don't you Scanlan?
Sam: I feel nothing. Sometimes I have to hold it with my left hand so it feels different.
Marisha: I switch hands. (laughter)
Marisha: Still nothing.
Travis: When you call it the stranger--
Matt: So as you cast Pass Without a Trace on yourself and Scanlan, the shadows of the mansion cling to you a little darker, a little more crushed. You wish to cast Invisibility on Vex, you said?
Sam: Yes, I will use yet another 3rd-level Invisibility spell to make us both invisible.
Matt: All right. You both jump onto the back of her broom.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: And just to double check here--
Travis: The way he said that--
Laura: No, he said it really terribly.
Matt: What do you mean? I didn't say anything!
Travis: You sure did.
Laura: Sure did!
Matt: I'll say technically you're carrying the broom, so the broom will also be invisible. Okay, so as you're holding the broom, you both leap onto it, the two of you and the broom vanish, and you guys are free to exit the mansion at your disposal.
Sam: Yeah, so we made a right here and left here and right at the big rock.
Laura: Is anybody going to keep track of us like you kept track of Vex-- Vax. I just called my brother me. I just did that.
Sam: Vex is the girl one. Vax is the boy.
Laura: Is somebody going to be around in case something goes horribly wrong?
Liam: I'll go with you if Kiki wants to turn me into a crow or a fly or something. I'll stay back and watch.
Laura: Stay up like Kiki did before.
Marisha: I mean I could do what I did before and follow you as Minxie. Worked last time. I still have my one last shape, as well.
Sam: Isn't Minxie big and spottable?
Marisha: It's a mountain-based tiger. I'm a white snow tiger.
Sam: That's so hot.
Marisha: It's actually very cold in the mountains. That's why they have thick coats.
Travis: You don't think Vorugal is going to think that's a midnight snack?
Marisha: Who, me?
Travis: Yeah, you. Big white tiger?
Marisha: He didn't see me before.
Travis: Oh okay.
Marisha: Let me see something. Hang on, because this'll tell me because Polymorph-- you might go out of my range. Is the only problem.
Sam: Polymorph just lasts. Wait, no.
Matt: Nope, concentration.
Sam: So he has to stay within range.
Marisha: Range is 60 feet.
Matt: No, that's just to cast it. I'm pretty sure he can go off on his own as long as you maintain concentration.
Marisha: Okay. Can I? He can go. Do you want to go? All right. What do you want to be?
Liam: Something white.
Laura: Something very small. Like a moth, a white moth.
Sam: It's got to be something that can go as fast as we're going.
Laura: He can sit on my shoulder. No?
Liam: Yeah, but then if you guys get fucked I'm dead, as well.
Laura: I'll just smack you and then you'll become you again.
Liam: So it'll just be like every day. All right, yeah.
Marisha: It's true.
Laura: Right? If I smack him, it's not going to kill him, he just turns back into--
Sam: If he were a black crow or something he could fly back on its own. A moth can't travel a mile.
Laura: Make him a white crow.
Liam: Yeah, can you make me an albino crow?
Marisha: Sure! I don't see why not.
Sam: With one yellow eye and one black eye.
Travis: Oh get on with it, fuckers! (laughter)
Marisha: I do that. With one yellow eye and one black eye.
Matt: All right. And as your form shifts to the first probably albino crow to wander the landscape here in Wildemount, you are able to follow them, should you so chose.
Marisha: To match Vex, I give him one little blue feather, just off the side. Little blue streak.
Liam: A little bit; this isn't Percy's, but (caws). (laughter)
Taliesin: (caws)
Laura: Come on, let's go. Come on.
Sam: All right, let's go.
Matt: You guys make your way outside into the heavy snowfall, across the top of the ravine. You go ahead and make a survival check to try and follow the tracks of Minxie to the outskirts of where you guys were last time.
Sam: Do I also get to give her any assistance, like "we went this way, go that way?"
Matt: Yeah. You know what, giving you the assist, go ahead and roll with advantage on that.
Travis: Oh, that's lucky.
Sam: Dice jail already?
Laura: Yeah. Definitely already. 17.
Matt: Okay. Takes you a little bit of time, but you manage to find your way back through the heavy snowfall. It's freezing cold and your teeth are starting to chatter a little bit, but you manage to make your way to the top of the ravine, dipping down where you find the cavern entrance at the bottom, leading into where Tooma and rest of the Ravenites at least seem to have the central portion of their society within the mountain itself. You guys come down. It's a little warmer the further into the rock you travel. The snow turns to slush, then to damp ground, to dry rock and stone.
Laura: I get off the broom and put it behind me.
Matt: Okay. Both still walking invisibly, with you now (whoosh) walking behind them, hopping as the white crow.
Sam: We should do the same thing we did last time. I know you weren't here. We turned visible, asked to guards to go-- It's going to be really shitty when we get in there, because she's going to hate us.
Laura: All right. Ow! Fuck you! Stop it!
Sam: I will drop invisibility. Are the guards around?
Matt: You guys are just on the outskirts of the entranceway.
Sam: Oh, we'll stay invisible until we get to the guards.
Matt: To the center of the town, or outside of Tooma's--
Laura: Oh! I thought we were already in the cave.
Matt: You're inside the cave. There's a path in there and it opens up into the actual subterranean village, and then in there, across from this fountain area, is where Tooma's tent is.
Sam: Where did we meet the guards last time?
Matt: As soon as you entered the main village area.
Sam: That's where we want to meet them again.
Matt: So as you both drop your invisibility guise, with your white crow friend hopping behind you, the same two guards are still patrolling. Only one of them notices you. Turns around and gives an odd look, his head cocked to the side as he grabs his spear and puts it towards you again.
Sam: Yep, same routine. We'll leave our weapons here. This is my friend Vex. We'd like to see Tooma again. I know it's very upsetting that we have to make these night calls like this but it's very important.
Laura: I speak in Draconic. I say  Sorry, my friend rambles.
Liam: (hacking spit)
Laura: My broom takes off behind me.
Matt: Yeah, exactly. Vanishes forever. Keeping the spear there, yells out (foreign word), and the other soldier who's wandering, turns around, looks and sees, steps over, puts his spear down, and they both have a conversation briefly. You can, as I recall, speak Draconic and can read lips, is that what it was? Yeah. They're both discussing why these stupid people keep coming back and bothering Tooma, as well as the coming tension of tomorrow's activities, and how they can't keep interrupting Tooma if she's going to be keeping her mind straight. But one of them leaves. The other one steps, circles around, and begins nudging you both forward, telling you in Draconic, "Then go, make it quick."
Laura: We will.
Matt: As you guys stay at the outskirts of Tooma's tent, the interior light has been sufficiently dimmed, as it was before, with a little bit of the embers that are still there in the fire pit in the center. Now, barely cracking ember. Tooma is passed out and curled up inside her throne-like chair, as one of the other dragonborn soldiers comes over and nudges her gently, "Tooma. They return." She rakes towards his face. He barely ducks out of the way. Unnatural speed for a creature as old as she is, per se, but then the hand recoils back with a snapping sound, and she wakes up, "You come again?"
Sam: Yes. We offer profound apologies for waking you from your slumber again.
Matt: Snaps her arm back into place. (cracking)
Laura: In Draconic  we apologize for waking you up. Unfortunately, I sent my brother here before with our compatriot, and he spoke out of turn. We're actually planning the attack the day after tomorrow.
Matt: (sigh, foreign words) Which you recognize as, "Tell the others: wait a day." And one of her servants wanders off behind you guys and exits the tent. She turns back to you. "Then what is to be done?"
Laura: We'll be releasing a very large fiend.
Sam: At the spot where you told us.
Matt: "At the stones, yes."
Laura: The stones. We hope that you will inform Vorugal that it's going to happen. He'll head over, fight-fight-fight. He becomes much weaker, we jump in, fight-fight-fight.
Matt: "It'll be done. Do not mess this up."
Sam: Question, before we go. Typically when you've done this in the past, you inform Vorugal and he heads on over right away? Does he need to see evidence of a hunt? How does it work? Do you typically inform him?
Matt: "I do not inform. Skork does the informing."
Sam: Skork?
Laura: Yes, Skork. I remember him.
Sam: And is there some sort of hunt horn or anything that signals the beginning of this, or does it just happen?
Matt: "Depending on where the prey is, whether it be nearby forests or presented in chains to the cinder stones of which I've sent you, Vorugal begins the chase."
Laura: He won't be in chains, exactly. Is that all right?
Matt: "Just keep it there."
Laura: Oh, okay.
Sam: I don't want to mess this up. If Vorugal were to see anyone near this summoning circle, would he be suspicious, or would he be okay with it?
Matt: "If it is not a Ravenite, it would probably make them part of the hunt."
Sam: Okay. Good to know.
Laura: Good news. Good. Great.
Matt: "Is that all?"
Laura: That's all. Be pleased. We will see you in a couple of days.
Sam: There's like a 50/50 chance we'll come back again tonight.
Laura: No it's not. We're not.
Sam: No? 60/40.
Laura: Let's just go.
Sam: We're out of here.
Matt: "Leave me!"
Sam: Sorry.
Laura: Again, I apologize for my brother. He's an idiot.
Matt: She doesn't even pay you guys any mind, just curls over, takes her heavy robes and like wraps them around her and curls up into a small little bundle of old dragonborn woman. The rest of the soldiers close in, cutting you off from her, and they all give you the very stern look that you have seen many times that tells you, "get the fuck out."
Laura: Okay. You make us invisible?
Sam: Oh yeah, invisibility yet again. I'm out of 3rd-level spells.
Laura: Is Pass Without a Trace still active on us? It's up to an hour.
Matt: Yeah it'd still be active.
Liam: As they're leaving, not wanting to get left out, I fly down from the air and land in my sister's hair and like a cat (growls) into the top of her head five or seven or 12 times.
Laura: Thank you.
Liam: (caws)
Marisha: So tangled.
Matt: Instantaneous bedhead. You can't even see it, but you can feel it and it bothers you. All right. You guys both are invisible, the bird clutching to your side. You take the broom back up into the snowy storm. I need you both to make stealth checks with advantage.
Laura: I thought we were invisible. We're invisible.
Sam: Yes, I've made us invisible again.
Liam: Big bonus.
Laura: Okay, stealth checks.
Sam: With advantage?
Laura: Plus ten to whatever you roll.
Sam: Oh snap! 12, 22--
Laura: 36.
Sam: 24.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way up out of the ravine, up onto the top of the snowy banks at the top of where the cliffsides are. Eventually, over the next 20 or so minutes, finding the shimmering outskirts of Scanlan's doorway, joining the rest of the party.
Laura: Get the fuck off my head, you piece of shit.
Matt: Polymorph lasts for how long?
Marisha: An hour.
Matt: As soon as you get to the top of ravine, the white crow (impact) face-down in the snow.
Marisha: I think it's an hour.
Liam: Speaking of which  hold still, there's a little bit of bird shit right there.
Laura: Aw, I thought you were serious.
Liam: Sorry.
Matt: Thankfully, that doesn't transform, either. (laughter)
Matt: You make your way back into Scanlan's mansion.
Marisha: While they were gone, I, with Fenthras and Whisper, was playing make-believe archer Vex, like a 12-year-old in the bedroom with a Nerf bow.
Matt: As you enter the front of Scanlan's mansion, you see Keyleth in the corner, who's pulled Whisper back in Fenthras, and it goes (dagger impact) into the wall.
Marisha: It worked! How did it go, guys?
Laura: Give me the bow, right now.
Travis: Oh, busted.
Marisha: It might be like a cool combo move.
Laura: I'll think about it. Thank you.
Travis: She take it well?
Laura: She did! She said she'd wait.
Sam: She's a night person. She's okay.
Travis: Great.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You did catch on the way up, Vex, that even through the dark sleet-covered snow blaring night, there is the faint hint of light blue sunrise in the distance.
Laura: Oh shit. Day's coming. We didn't sleep! We need to sleep!
Travis: Wait! Should we see if we can get Pike first?
Sam: First? Do we have any spells to do that?
Marisha: I can try and scry.
Laura: What if you take the stone, pop over to her, then use Tree Stride and come back?
Marisha: That I can do, yeah.
Sam: You have another Tree Stride in you? Didn't we get here today?
Marisha: We did, but if I burn a higher-level spell, then yeah. What does it matter, at this point?
Travis: Yeah, let's get all our ducks in a row.
Marisha: All right. I'll be right back. See you guys in a minute.
Liam: Bye! A minute passes.
Marisha: A minute passes. This is like when you walk the same direction, you say bye, and then you walk the same direction to the car.
Matt: Awkward quiet. You hear Kima snoring with her back against the foyer wall, just (snoring). Until eventually, the stone begins to glow and pulse like a dull frozen heartbeat. (pulsing) Keyleth, your eyes open, and you see it flashing in your hands again, and you look up real fast and before you can say anything, your mouth opens to say goodbye before she vanishes in a swirl of glitter and blue light.
Laura: Oh shit.
Matt: Now, Pike! Come sit down! (cheering)
Ashley: Hello!
Marisha: I like your jacket! It's really great.
Ashley: Oh hi! Okay.
Matt: Just flew in.
Ashley: Yeah. Here we go. (laughter)
Matt: So. As the day has gone by and through the chaos of getting Whitestone ready, trying to assemble the followers of Sarenrae that you've gathered, and protecting the remnants of the city as Vox Machina went off, a moment hits you and you close your eyes and pray to Sarenrae and hope that all shall be well with your friends, and you wish that you could be there to help them. And there's a sudden warmth in your proximity, and then a sudden flash of blue light, and then nearby, you see a somewhat cold, damp Keyleth just appear in the space next to you as you're preparing to lay yourself down for an evening's rest, it being later at night now, clutching the stone.
Ashley: Hey! I was just about to go to bed!
Marisha: Were you sleeping? This is so awkward!
Ashley: I was just saying my prayers.
Marisha: Oh my gosh.
Ashley: I do it as much as I can.
Marisha: You know, I never thought about having poor timing with these gate stones. I'm so sorry!
Ashley: (stammers)
Marisha: I thought you were on the toilet.
Ashley: I know. I'm so glad I wasn't.
Marisha: Yeah, me too.
Ashley: I'm so glad you're here.
Marisha: I missed you.
Ashley: I missed you.
Sam: We saw her literally today.
Marisha: Yeah, but it seems like I went around the world and back!
Ashley: I was thinking today and I was like, "Oh man, I should've just gone with them."
Marisha: Yeah, we got all the way there and we were like, "oh, we forgot Pike!"
Ashley: I know. It's okay.
Marisha: Do you want to go?
Ashley: Or I will be there now. Let's go.
Marisha: We can go now.
Ashley: Let's do it.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: Is that a new set of dice?
Ashley: I had to go buy some because I left all of my stuff in New York. Let's see how this goes.
Sam: You stopped on the way here to buy dice?
Ashley: No, I got those a little earlier. We're okay. We're here. Okay.
Marisha: Okay. So we Tree Stride back.
Matt: Okay. Pike, you gather your materials, your armor, your weapons. All things that you feel would be necessary for this type of a conflict. You rejoin with Keyleth. The two of you find your way back to the Sun Tree.
Marisha: Right. So yeah, so the leader of Ravenites, her name is Tooma, and we went there, and we were talking to her, and I think we have a plan, but not really a plan, so we're going to figure it out as we go. All right? Let's go. That's the plan; you're caught up.
Ashley: Okay, great. Hey, guys. (laughter)
Matt: So as the spell finishes, the Sun Tree opens, you step through the portal into the slow crawling sunrise. The sun hasn't quite crested, but you can see through the snowfall, which is lessening at the moment, the distant light blue is getting lighter and lighter. You probably have another 30 minutes before the sun hits the actual horizon line. But as you step out of one of the trees that you created previous, when you had journeyed to the ruins of Draconia, you do see about 150 feet off, the shimmer of the outside of Scanlan's mansion door.
Marisha: (whispers) Let's be quiet, okay? Let's do this.
Sam: Oh, great. Pike's good at quiet.
Marisha: We stealth there.
Matt: Both you guys roll stealth checks.
Sam: Oh Jesus.
Liam: This is so great. Now we can all die together!
Matt: You have disadvantage, Pike.
Marisha: Oh, that's a natural one.
Sam: Wait, what?
Ashley: I don't think I can get worse than that; that is a one.
Sam: Two natural ones?
Matt: Two natural ones?
Marisha: No!
Sam: Oh my god. The dragon's going to fucking kill us right now.
Marisha: Oh my god, Pike. The plan hasn't even started!
Laura: Dice jail!
Liam: We're all about to lie down for a three-hour nap. What are you talking about?
Ashley: Off to a great start.
Matt: As you guys begin stepping through the snow, Pike, you take a step and you hear this strange (cracking) sound and you feel this slight shift beneath your feet. And you watch as some snow begins to trickle off the side of the cliffside.
Marisha: Pike?
Ashley: I'm going to not move.
Marisha: I don't move, either. Do we not move or do we run?
Ashley: We should run. We should run because it's probably coming down!
Marisha: Run! (laughter)
Matt: As soon as you both push off running, (whoosh) a portion of the cliff actually shears off and begins to slide down the side. Pike, if you could go ahead and roll a dexterity saving throw real fast.
Laura: Oh my god, Matt! Why are you trying to kill her right when she gets here?!
Sam: Yeah, Matt. Why did you roll two natural ones?
Ashley: Wait, what did you say it is?
Travis: A dexterity saving throw.
Matt: A dexterity saving throw.
Ashley: Wait, I get nothing, okay. A four.
Matt: A four. You begin to see Pike slide down off the edge.
Marisha: I cast Grasping Vine to grab onto her.
Matt: With that, some of the reeds, some of the nearby frozen plants on the edge that were largely covered with snow that were revealed as the rest of the snow began to crumble off, a large vine shoots out, wraps around you, and pulls you back up onto the side of the cliff: fine. The rest of the rock and snow and ice, you hear (crashing) clattering into the ravine below.
Ashley: Go!
Marisha: Go!
Matt: All right, you guys run. You see the doorway shimmering before you, you get closer and you hear in the distance, this strangely familiar distant echoing (growls).
Ashley: Aw, come on! What is that noise?
Marisha: Go, run!
Matt: You both just get to the doorway in time. The snowfall's still there though gentler than it was in the night. You both dart inside, slamming the mansion door behind you, into a warmer, comfortable, quieter atmosphere. (panting)
Ashley: Hey!
Laura: What just happened?
Liam: Jeepers.
Travis: Hey!
Ashley: Hey!
Travis: Hey, buddy! Why are you out of breath?
Liam: You all right? You look white as a ghost.
Taliesin: Have I had a full night's sleep, at this point?
Matt: No, not yet.
Taliesin: Goddamn it.
Marisha: Dragon might know we're here.
Travis: What, why?
Marisha: Well, there might've been a rockslide. And it might've been our fault. I'm not sure.
Travis: You just walked through a tree. Why was there a rockslide?
Marisha: I don't know, Grog!
Liam: The door is easy to see.
Sam: The door is shimmery and shiny?
Matt: No, nobody can see through it.
Marisha: They can see a shimmering door.
Matt: Only if you let them. Only individuals that you choose can see the entrance.
Laura: That's great!
Ashley: So whatever that was just saw us disappear.
Laura: Oh shit! Grog! Open the door! Dust of Tracelessness! Out the door! Right now!
Travis: Oh! Yeah, I open the front door and I take big handful of the Dust of Tracelessness and I (whack).
Matt: Okay, make a strength check. There's a mild wind here you're fighting against with dust, so we'll see.
Travis: 14.
Matt: 14? Okay. You take a big old heaping handful and (whoosh) another one. As you send it out there, all the snow crusts over and any signs of footprints, both half-elf or gnomish, turn into a gentle, untouched solid surface of snow, as you begin to hear in the distance another echoing (growl).
Travis: What is that?
Ashley: What is that?
Laura: Close the door.
Sam: Close the door.
Laura: Close the door, Grog!
Travis: I just want to see what it is!
Ashley: I slam it shut with my gauntlets.
Travis: Hey, pushy!
Ashley: We don't know what that was! Well, maybe you do, but I don't know.
Marisha: I'm assuming that was Vorugal.
Sam: The dragon.
Travis: It's a dragon.
Ashley: It's a dragon!
Travis: Yeah, a big white dragon.
Marisha: Big white. Big dummy dragon.
Travis: And you let it know we're here! (chuckles)
Ashley: Well, that was an accident. I was going to surprise you guys. And we almost died.
Travis: But hey, we're not, so we need to get some sleep, right?
Sam: Yes, everyone sleep now.
Travis: We sleep.
Matt: Okay. You guys all go to rest?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: All right. A full rest is taken for all of you. Everyone's healed back to full. Spells are recovered. Percy, you are now down to a minus two, I believe, penalty to your rolls.
Liam: Wake up and it's two in the afternoon?
Matt: Technically, yeah. It's mid-afternoon by the time you guys finish your full rest, except for Percy. Percy is up before everybody else and is pacing about the mansion by himself probably.
Sam: The mansion will last 24 hours, so it'll be dark again by the time it wears off, so we can stay in here as long as we need to.
Liam: All right.
Sam: But do we have things we need to accomplish today?
Taliesin: How about making a quiet cavern, not too far away from the summoning circle, where we can hide?
Laura: That might be smart, actually.
Marisha: At the pace in which that cliff fell apart last night, I don't know about the structure of the topography here.
Taliesin: That's fair.
Laura: But we're also up high and the ravine is down low. That could make a difference.
Liam: Yeah, we could get piled on.
Laura: Oh! I understand.
Sam: But with Percival's engineering skills, he could maybe find a good little spot of granite for you to dig into or something.
Marisha: I can try and do a Commune With Nature and see.
Travis: These islands float, right?
Matt: Oh, they once did. All the islands of Draconia were disabled, the arcane essence that let them stay up, and they all crashed into the ravine.
Liam: Also, when shit goes down, we don't want to repeat the mistakes of the past. A) we don't want to teleport inside the dragon's belly.
Sam: I'm keeping all options on the table.
Travis: Only stupid people do that.
Liam: Clearly. B) We don't all want to be all grouped together.
Laura: We don't want that.
Liam: I'm eating one of these magic candies.
Laura: Those chicken candies?
Liam: Yes, there's chicken. We want to spread out so we're not all blasted at the same time.
Taliesin: Vex and I at a distance.
Liam: Separately, though, so you can hit from different angles.
Travis: So two caves? Four caves?
Marisha: I'll have to think on the caves.
Sam: They don't have to be giant caverns. It's just a little nook. A little foxhole.
Liam: Cubby-holes. Up high for anyone who can take to the air, down low for anyone who can't.
Marisha: Honestly, I'm not going to know a whole lot until we scout out the location.
Taliesin: Let's go scout out the location.
Sam: Okay, how do we do that? In broad daylight.
Marisha: I've got something I've never done before!
Laura: What is this?
Sam: It's called Invisible Reconnaissance.
Marisha: Almost. It's called Animal Shapes. And it's basically Polymorph, but for all of us. I can turn us all into whatever we want.
Laura: So we don't just look like cows.
Laura: We are cows.
Marisha: We are cows.
Travis: Quick question. In all of our time here, when we were scouting before, and when you two jokers were going to go see Tooma, did we see a bunch of animals around?
Laura: I have not seen very many animals, I don't think.
Matt: Within the ravine, there's been very few. What animals you have seen have been a few flying owls, other carnivorous birds that are generally scavengers. You've seen maybe a few small wolves that are picking through the ruins and eventually scattered off. White snow wolves.
Travis: As long as being animals isn't going to make us a mid-day snack, versus being Ravenites.
Sam: I will say this  I love the sound of this spell, but wouldn't travelling mist be really undetectable? Could we mist around?
Marisha: It's almost debatable. Because we look like an unnatural mist.
Sam: There's a snowstorm out there. We're just going to be one with the clouds.
Laura: Is there a snowstorm?
Matt: If you guys glance outside of the mansion and look, it is not a snowstorm, but there are heavy winds. (wind blowing) You can hear multitudes, a cacophony of off-harmonies of winds, of different portions of the distant ravine that are all howling together. There is a faint snowfall, but the clouds are dark and heavy, and more of a storm coming your way.
Laura: Does snow get thrown up to the wind?
Matt: A little further down in the ravine, it does.
Liam: And as long as we're not synchronized swimming in mist form and spread out, then it should be fine.
Laura: Behave like wind, you guys.
Travis: Can we do both animals and the mist?
Matt: No, they both require concentration.
Sam: My worry about animals is don't we also have the intellect of the animals that we become?
Matt: Actually, Wind Walk is not concentration. In theory, you could do both. Wind Walk is not concentration.
Marisha: We can be misty animals?
Matt: You can be misty animals.
Marisha: That's dumb. (laughter)
Marisha: That's a lot.
Sam: So we keep our own intellect?
Marisha: We always keep our intellect. Animal Shapes last for 24 hours.
Taliesin: Can you go back and forth?
Marisha: I'm going to find that out right now.
Taliesin: That's a question.
Marisha: Because if we were a flock of birds, Vorugal's not going to give a shit about birds.
Sam: A flock of hawks, they don't go together. But a flock of pigeons do, or a flock of geese.
Taliesin: I don't want to be food. I want to be something that eats.
Liam: While they're debating, I pull Whisper out, and I chuck it into a wall and teleport to it. I pulled it out of the Blink-Back Belt.
Matt: Yeah. So you chuck the dagger. As you're talking, you watch as Vax takes the blade, flings it across the room. It slams into the side of the foyer. You look back to where he was, and he's not there anymore. There's a flash of dark shadow energy where the blade is, and Vax's form appears right there, holding the blade where it landed in the wall.
Laura: That is so cool!
Liam: It didn't go into my belt. I went into the wall, and I'm holding it, still. I was a shadow for half a second, and I traveled with the blade. I am fucking Nightcrawler. Holy shit. And I throw it again across the other side.
Matt: Okay. This time make an attack roll because you're excited, not concentrating.
Liam: Okay. Sure, that's 27.
Matt: Yeah. It goes a little more elevated, lands about ten feet up. As it impacts, you guys watch. As he releases the blade, his form almost is pulled along, almost like it's caught on a tether and then just turns into dark smoke and vanishes with the blade. As the blade sticks into the wall, he reappears at the side, clutching the edge, and you drop a few feet and land onto your feet.
Liam: Aw, suck it haters! This is the coolest dagger I've ever had!
Sam: Tell me this, can you not do that? If you throw it and don't want to travel where it is?
Liam: I throw it right next to his head, and I don't go anywhere.
Matt: Roll an attack roll.
Sam: Go right in my neck.
Liam: 24?
Matt: 24. (dagger impact) Right next to him.
Liam: Does it go to my belt?
Matt: It returns to your belt.
Sam: Oh! You get to choose?
Marisha: That is awesome.
Sam: Maybe don't ever do that again, please.
Laura: Sure you're okay, Grog, that you don't have the dagger? I know you wanted it.
Travis: I just want to be able to move faster, but it's all right.
Liam: We can't all be all things, Grog. You are the strongest thing on the planet. You are going to take Vorugal all by yourself--
Travis: Yeah, if I can get next to him.
Laura: Which he probably can't.
Liam: You shut the fuck up, you trouble-maker. You bust my balls on a daily basis. What is that about? What is that about? What have I ever done but support you?
Travis: Pipe down! Calm down! Listen, how are we getting down there? Can we hurry this up, please?
Liam: Throw my dagger at the ceiling. Travel with it.
Matt: All right, so you watch his form vanish again. About 40 feet up, (impact).
Liam: Can I land on my sister?
Laura: On me?!
Matt: Make a dexterity saving throw. This would be acrobatics, right.
Laura: What about me?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: I was looking straight at him.
Liam: I rolled a 27.
Laura: Perception? 20.
Matt: You make a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: (sighs) You piece of shit.
Liam: Quit starting with me.
Laura: Dexterity. 28! 30!
Liam: 30. She beat me.
Matt: She dodges right out of the way, and you slam onto the ground. You feel your ankles and knees (ping) a little bit. That sharp pain hits you in both joints and you're like (moans).
Liam: Worth it. (groans)
Marisha: So anyway. Back to the plan-- (laughter)
Marisha: So with Animal Shapes, I can actually decide what animals each of you can be, so we can all be different animals. Furthermore, on my action, I can use it to transform you guys into a different creature.
Laura: That's pretty cool.
Liam: I like how excited you are about this.
Marisha: I'm so excited.
Laura: I'm wondering if the mist form would not be better. But the animals are really cool.
Taliesin: Can we go in and out of mist form? That's a thing we can do?
Sam: It takes a while, but yes.
Liam: But we're not in the middle of a fight, hopefully. The animals, Kiki, save it for a rainy day?
Marisha: All right.
Laura: If we're not all dead come tomorrow.
Liam: Yeah, we probably all will be dead tomorrow, but it's a really cool idea.
Marisha: Thank you for your validation.
Sam: Two questions. Are we all going? And question two, when we get there and find a suitable location for carving caves, are you going to do this right now, or are we just scouting?
Taliesin: We're going to do this, as well.
Sam: We're going to do this right now?
Marisha: I imagine it depends on how scouting goes.
Sam: Well, we can't communicate when we're in mist form, so you just have to go do if you feel it.
Laura: Maybe scout and then go back. Because mist form stays for eight hours, so at least that way we can communicate not next to Vorugal.
Taliesin: If we scout and it's clear, and then we come back and then go back, it might not be clear again. If we scout and it's clear, then we do it. It's done.
Matt: You guys hear this faint gargling sound as Grog is currently gargling his own spit and staring at the ceiling.
Liam: I didn't follow that, either. We should do something.
Marisha: All right, let's go scout. I cast Wind Walk on everybody.
Matt: Okay. All of you begin to feel your form buzz a little bit with the instilled power of wind. As you all each step out onto the snow on the outside of the mansion, you can concentrate for a moment as your form then meshes into a mist-like billowing cloud.
Laura: Do we look natural?
Sam: Yeah, what do we look like?
Laura: Do we look pretty obvious?
Sam: Are we a yellow cloud, a white cloud?
Matt: I'd say it's more of a whitish cloud. I wouldn't say it's supremely obvious right now, but the wind is pushing you about a little bit. If you try and focus direction of move, you can get a better idea how well your movement is.
Taliesin: I'm trying to move in a very windy way, yeah.
Travis: And Kima is with us?
Matt: Kima is with you, yeah.
Liam: I am the fart.
Taliesin: I am the fart.
Matt: Kima, as you guys are doing this and it gets cast, Kima goes, "So what am I doing?"
Marisha: Do you want to come scout? We're going to scout. Or you can just stay.
Matt: "You know, I'm going to stay. You've got a big kitchen here."
Marisha: It's mainly filled with chicken.
Matt: "I love chicken." (laughter)
Travis: There's also a training room several levels down if you want to go smash some shit.
Matt: "I'm going to get some chicken, and I'm going to go smash some shit."
Marisha: And there's the spa under that.
Matt: "I don't think I've been to a spa. Does that also have chicken?"
Laura: It could if you wanted it to.
Ashley: You could bring it down there.
Matt: "This is the best place ever!"
Sam: It is. It really is.
Matt: "Come back when you need me." She goes and runs off to the kitchen area. All right. You guys, stepping out, keeping the focus on the spell, you move half-speed through this weather in mist form. So your 300 feet per round speed, whatever it is, is reduced to a mere 150 feet.
Marisha: It's okay. It's more for appearance.
Matt: What are you guys doing? Are you coasting through the ravine, are you heading directly, or trying to go overhead?
Marisha: I want to go to the summoning stone. I'm going towards there.
Sam: But we discussed before we left that we would mainly stick to the lowlands and the ravine to get there, yeah?
Laura: Yes, we did.
Taliesin: Hugging the walls, looking normal.
Marisha: Sure. I follow the crowd.
Matt: Okay. Who's leading?
Ashley: I am! (laughter)
Laura: I'll lead the way.
Liam: This is the quietest you've ever been.
Taliesin: I volunteer as tribute!
Sam: Shouldn't Laura lead?
Taliesin: Let Laura lead.
Matt: Okay. So Vex and Pike are leading the way.
Ashley: No, I was kidding.
Taliesin: Too late. No take-backs.
Travis: We all die together.
Matt: As you guys slowly drift down into the bottom of the ravine on the outside of where the mansion doorway is, you crest down to where a large portion of the rubble is currently buried by snow and ice. The wind is whipping snow up into the air, and you're finding little spirals and little snow devils that are making their way through as different clusters of wind tend to swell and subside. You make your way over to the opposite side of the ravine and start heading to the north way, crawling around.
Laura: I'm going to keep an eye out to make sure nobody seems like they're-- especially towards Vorugal's plateau to make sure he's not there.
Matt: Need you to go ahead and make a perception check if you could. And I need everybody to make a stealth check, please.
Marisha: Do we get some sort of bonus because we're mist?
Laura: Perception is 30.
Marisha: Jesus.
Ashley: How can you be loud as mist?
Liam: Natural 20!
Marisha: Stealth and what?
Taliesin: Just stealth for us.
Sam: Do I get to add Jack of all--
Matt: You can. As long as you're not trained in it, you can add it to it.
Sam: I'm not. Okay. 18.
Taliesin: 16.
Marisha: 14.
Matt: 20.
Laura: 15.
Ashley: Eight.
Travis: Four.
Matt: Okay. It's fine. It's a group check, so successes outweigh the failures. You guys as a group begin to move forward. It's fine. As you guys are slowly moving your way, you keep an eye out. You can see there are some Ravenites in clusters that are out, currently poring through the rubble. There are crews that are basically excavating, trying to pull out what's worth anything from the remnants of Draconia. You make your way around this large, familiar curvature from before that leads towards the center area of Vorugal's now-claimed lair at the bottom of the ravine. As you turn the corner and you guys keep watch, you can see on the icy platform, with these spikes that jut out at various places throughout this larger central area here. On top, you can see perched and curled up the massive form of the white dragon itself, claws curled up under its chin, its chin slightly turned askew to the left, eyes closed, wings wrapped up around and gently flapping over the sides of the top of this icy platform. It sits there quietly, breathing in, and you can hear the breath itself, deep and guttural, just echoing. (snoring) The wind occasionally sneaks in and seems to almost carry the echo farther than it should be audible. And you can see there are two packs of about five Ravenites that are armed and are sitting at the base of the platform, that are looking out. Some of them are sitting, some of them are eating some small rations, some are just keeping an eye out. These appear to be essentially assigned guards to Vorugal here at his lair. So. You guys continue past?
Taliesin: Oh yes.
Matt: Heading which direction?
Laura: Towards the summoning circle.
Matt: You recall which direction that was?
Liam: It's east.
Matt: All right, so you head a little northward, following the curvature of this part of the ravine in an eastward direction. Eventually, you all move past an uncomfortable proximity of about 200 to 300 feet of Vorugal, seemingly not catching anyone's attention as you slowly move, following the pattern of winds. It takes you a little longer to get through, but you figure it's best to look as natural as possible with the moving terrain and weather. Eventually, you turn around and begin making your way eastward, away, following where two more portions of the ravine clump together. Anywhere between 80 to 100 feet in width, it expands a bit, shrinks in a bit, but it seems to be pushing into a very slight grade upward, like this portion of the ravine is making its way, over probably the next mile or so, to breach and hit surface.
Liam: So from Vorugal?
Matt: From Vorugal, heading eastward, it is slowly heading up. You get about a quarter-mile in before you begin to see the very thick ice being broken by occasional snow-covered dead trees that are breaking through. As you saw before, there are not a lot of trees in this central area of the ravine, but they're becoming a little more common as you progress forward, though many of them dead, thin and broken in places. Make another perception check, Laura.
Laura: Okay. 16.
Matt: Okay. It's fine. Pushing forward in your mist form, you do see that certain portions of the upper ravine have an element of erosion to them that have broken down, and there are some large stones that have dropped and are jutting out of the ice formation on the snowy platform floor. You glance around, and you can see that there are a loose circle of maybe five, six stones forming an oval shape in the center. And even looking about, you can see this area seems to have seen some scuffles. It looks like portions of the walls have been scraped and clawed apart. It looks like some heavy impacts have hit the side. If there was a place for there to be a setting ground for some sort of a conflict of previous hunts for Vorugal, this is probably what Tooma was referring to.
Laura: I look down towards it. Does it look like anything is around it?
Matt: Currently, no. It looks pretty--
Laura: Ooh.
Sam: Ooh.
Laura: Oh no! Tree's down!
Liam: It's an earthquake. The trees fell down! Keyleth! Your spells are too powerful!
Marisha: (laughs) I can save them! I can save them all!
Sam: Wow, Matt.
Ashley: It's so pretty!
Laura: It is so pretty.
Matt: This circle of stones here--
Ashley: Did you make the--
Sam: It's Arendelle!
Liam: He's been carving it this week.
Matt: So this circle of stones, the clusters of rock that have broken down and are sticking out, you don't know what the cultural significance of them are. They appear to have been there for a long time; these were not a recent series of landmarks that were presented here. These have been here for a while. But you do see a series of claw marks and damaged bits throughout the space in the area that is uncharacteristic of the rest of the ravine floor that you've been traversing.
Sam: Can Vorugal see this spot?
Liam: Curved away?
Matt: You make a perception check, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, I'm great at those.
Liam: We just traveled about a half-mile?
Sam: Six!
Matt: About a quarter mile. You don't see Vorugal from here, so probably not.
Laura: I would be looking for Vorugal too, though.
Matt: Perception check.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: From this perspective, it's a little ways in the way the ravine has crawled in this northeastern direction from where the lair center was. This area is not directly visible from Vorugal. You cannot see, for quite a bit, that area.
Liam: Wind fingers for Vorugal.
Laura: All right. Can I float down and get a closer look at the weird marks you were talking about?
Matt: Yeah. Make an investigation check.
Sam: While she's doing that, I'm going to fly through Pike a few times.
Laura: 13.
Matt: It tickles. But not in a good way. Glancing about, you can see there is some snowfall here and some ice that has sealed off this area. A lot of the snow that's hit here gets blown away by the wind that's coming through, so there hasn't been a lot of snow packed in this vicinity. A lot of these large claw marks are indicative of dragon claws, especially those of an ancient size. You do see bones scattered about-- many of them have been picked clean-- of varying sizes. There appears to be a half-eaten large insect-like carapace that's shoved off to the side. A number of creatures have fallen here and have been mostly eaten, devoured, or left to be picked apart by the other birds of prey that exist in this area.
Taliesin: We have cover from either side of the top. That's right. I'm going to fly over to the top of the far right of the ravine.
Laura: Behind those rocks right there?
Taliesin: Above them, all the way up here. And I'm going to take a look around and see if anybody, anything's around, anything living that looks suspicious.
Matt: Perception check.
Taliesin: You'd think I'd be able to do this. 18.
Matt: Okay. Glancing about, you can see every now and then, a few birds fly overhead. Appear to be hawks, light gray in color. They're just looking around, circling and vanishing in the distance. You do see a few small furred critters; looks almost squirrel-like, but it's too far away to make out the details, and you're not very specifically detailed-- make a nature check, actually.
Liam: Check for critters.
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: You have no idea. It's furred, it's small. It probably creeps you out a little.
Marisha: (giggles) My friends.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm going to survey. Would I think it's safer above the ravine or within?
Matt: I'd say within here, it's probably safer within the ravine, up at the top. This is not indicative of the true height; we'll say this is more of an example. The ravine height is probably closer to maybe 80 to 100 feet up.
Travis: Yeah. Got it.
Matt: I just didn't want to build Styrofoam that high.
Taliesin: Actually, that works out perfectly for me. Then I'll jump down to behind that rock and I will de-mist behind that rock.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'll see him doing that and join him.
Marisha: Yeah, I'll watch as they do that.
Taliesin: I think a cave entrance right here to somewhere where you can hide after you do the summoning and dive in and get about 25 to 30 feet away.
Sam: Question, Percy. There's this annoying wind. (laughter)
Liam: Vax flies around them.
Taliesin: I'm not responsible for what you ate for breakfast.
Sam: Here's a question. Rather than scouting here, digging a hole, and going back to our mansion, should we just have a new mansion here?
Taliesin: Yes, that's actually-- well. Kima.
Sam: Kima.
Taliesin: That's all right. Somebody can mist back and bring her.
Sam: I could technically drop that mansion and she'd be on her ass. (laughs)
Taliesin: I think she's already so delighted with you. That might be a terrible idea.
Sam: Well, someone could go back and get her. We don't have to do this right now, but when we're done here, maybe we want to camp here so we have a place to hide inside a mansion.
Taliesin: That's a very good idea, actually.
Sam: And we don't even really need to make tunnels, do we?
Taliesin: We do. We want to have places to hide.
Sam: Yeah, that's true. We want to spread out.
Marisha: I'm going to mist down next to them.
Taliesin: We want to have a place to hide, and place to shoot from that has cover.
Marisha: Hey, guys. What are we talking about?
Taliesin: Digging a hole and moving the mansion here.
Marisha: (laughs) God, so windy tonight.
Sam: I know, it's so annoying.
Taliesin: It also means that if something goes horribly wrong, you can run downstairs and hide.
Marisha: All right, well, here's the problem. I need to figure out what all of this is made out of. I can't work with it if it's just ice. It has to be natural stone. So cover for me? I'm going to drop down and start meditating.
Sam: I'm going to scan the sky.
Marisha: I'm going to do a Commune With Nature spell. Do we have any other questions, before I do this, that we want to ask the land?
Travis: We're wind; you're good.
Matt: Everything seems fine.
Laura: We're still wind.
Marisha: In general, I guess.
Taliesin: How strong are the ravine walls, and can we dig into them, as well? Not just the ground, but the walls themselves. Small tunnels, just big enough for one person.
Sam: And there's these rocks here. We know there's some rocks. We knows that there's tons of ice.
Marisha: Do I need to figure out how far exactly Vorugal is from us?
Sam: We saw him on the way over. We know exactly where he is.
Marisha: I have three good questions.
Liam: Weather forecast is not a bad idea.
Marisha: No, it's not. The weather forecast.
Taliesin: Yeah, for tomorrow.
Sam: What sorts of things can you ask nature?
Marisha: Nature-y things. I can ask it about--
Liam: Where's the closest Erewhon?
Marisha: Yeah. Is there a Starbucks nearby?
Matt: Three questions. What you got?
Marisha: Oh, I was asking-- yeah. I can ask it about topography, I can ask about locations of people nearby. Things like that.
Laura: Ask about what the rock is, so you can find where to dig.
Taliesin: And where's the green dragon.
Marisha: Oh, that's a good idea. Where the fuck is Raishan? Okay.
Laura: She might be with us right now.
Marisha: She might be. Okay. Now I do this.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: First and foremost, what is the geological makeup of this land around me? This ravine. Cliffside.
Matt: What is the geological makeup?
Marisha: What is it made out of, yeah.
Matt: Stone.
Marisha: And all of this stuff on the edges?
Matt: All of this is stone with about a foot layer of ice on the outside of it. Portions of it that have been broken or struck, you can see some exposure to it. This ravine is not normally covered in snow and ice; Vorugal's presence has brought a persistent blizzard and icy atmosphere to it. So all the ice and snow you see here is technically not natural to the terrain, and most of this ravine has a very strong foundation of solid stone, natural rock, and other various geological layers beneath.
Marisha: So it is fairly sturdy and not apparently going to collapse at any moment?
Matt: Correct. It appears like what happened with you and Pike earlier was an anomaly that only happens when you roll two natural ones.
Marisha: Sure. Okay. Can I get a sense on what the weather is going to be like for the next 24 hours?
Matt: Reaching out to the vicinity and picking up what you can, it's hard to get specifics, but it looks to be at least a coming sleet storm. Not hail; nothing too heavy, but it looks like it's going to have some times of limited visibility, and very cold.
Marisha: Bummer. Okay. Good to know. And do I sense Raishan?
Matt: Within three miles? You get the essence of the surrounding terrain that there is another large dragon presence nearby, though you don't get a specific location.
Marisha: Bummer.
Taliesin: It was a good thought.
Sam: No, that's good to know.
Marisha: She's within three miles.
Laura: She's here, or it's Thordak.
Marisha: Well, no, he's said another, aside from Thordak.
Liam: Aside from Vorugal.
Matt: No, you asked for Raishan. Raishan was confirmed to be within the vicinity.
Marisha: Okay. That's it. Those are my three questions.
Matt: As that question fades, you do get a little better bit of location of Raishan's current presence. Raishan is currently on the very south end of the ravine, on the outskirts of the three-mile radius of near where you are right now. Close to where you guys first came to the ruins of Draconia, where you were first discovered by the Ravenites. That's all you know about her. Just that location.
Marisha: Close to the ruins of Draconia?
Matt: Where you guys first arrived when you first came here.
Liam: Not near us right now.
Marisha: And not where the library and the ruins of Draconia were.
Matt: Yeah. South of all that.
Taliesin: All right. I like the idea of someone going back to get Kima. I think one tunnel on this side, one tunnel on the other side, and one tunnel on the top of the ravine on either side, if you can do that.
Marisha: And do we want them to connect so we can get through? Little half loops, semi-circles?
Sam: Does this make noise? Will it vibrate the ground?
Marisha: I'm pushing out earth. Yeah.
Taliesin: Not a ton of noise.
Marisha: Vex and I mentioned that.
Taliesin: How loud will this be, do you think?
Marisha: How loud will this be?
Matt: As loud as moving large pieces of stone and earth would.
Travis: Loud.
Matt: Not stealthy work.
Sam: We saw a storm coming. Has it hit yet?
Matt: No, you've got a few more hours.
Sam: We can wait until the storm comes. It'll be super windy and loud.
Travis: Not nearly enough to move tunnels of earth and rock.
Sam: Can you do something to ice? Melt it? That's silent.
Marisha: Yeah, but it's only a foot of ice.
Sam: Yeah, but we could carve out ice tunnels.
Liam: No, the ice is only a foot thick, coating what is normally a temperate region.
Travis: We got the house. We got the mansion. That's it.
Liam: But it's one spot.
Sam: We can hide behind rocks.
Marisha: We could do a test.
Sam: Can you make new rocks that are hollow? I guess it'll still make noise.
Marisha: I could make walls of stone. I can make little-- But also keep in mind, anything that I do, he'll notice. And the whole point to this is to not make our presence known at all.
Laura: And ice dragons burrow. I remember that much.
Marisha: So we could pop in our tunnels and they could be like, "what's up?"
Sam: How important are these tunnels? Because if we want, while you're doing this I can go distract the dragon?
Marisha: On the other end of the ravine?
Sam: Sure, why not?
Taliesin: No.
Liam: No.
Travis: Why would you do that?
Sam: To distract the dragon so you can dig.
Liam: Because we can use your mansion, and when the time is right, we can all scatter in different directions quickly. Many of us can fly. I would rather have these cubby-holes, as well, but it's too risky, and it's too risky to let you go running your little ass off around and get that dragon to eat you in one bite. You're overruled.
Travis: How do we go get Kima?
Laura: Somebody that can turn invisible has to go get her.
Marisha: Well, you're still mist-form. That lasts for eight hours. You can mist back.
Laura: Yeah, but she can't turn into mist, so you can go get her and turn her into mist.
Sam: We have the stones. What about the stones? Stones. Someone can mist back with the stone, then mist back to us and give her the stone.
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: That'll work.
Ashley: I'll do it!
Sam: Ooh!
Travis: Wait! Does the stone make any sound or light?
Taliesin: No, just goes poof.
Travis: Really? Then sure.
Taliesin: Little bit of a poof.
Laura: It's a little bit of light, but we can hide behind something when she does it. She can poof from within the mansion before you make the mansion.
Travis: She can poof from within the mansion.
Taliesin: You can't poof within the mansion.
Matt: You can't poof within the mansion. It has to be on the same plane of existence.
Laura: But it's daylight, so it should be fine.
Marisha: The mansion's considered a pocket plane.
Sam: If Pike is going back as mist-- no offense, Pike-- can you find the mansion?
Laura: Why don't you go with her?
Sam: Okay. Gladly.
Ashley: Oh, okay. You'll know your mansion better.
Travis: Send the two bitties. And we're going to hide out. I'm still in my mist form.
Sam: Did you guys de-mist-ify?
Laura: Well, we've been talking, so I'm going to say yes.
Sam: Hey, clever elves, can you scout around, make sure we're not being watched?
Liam: There are no elves here. My mother was a human. Do you want to go right now?
Laura: I've been keeping an eye out, but yes, I will keep watch.
Sam: We're not being watched? You sure those hawks are hawks?
Laura: Is anything watching us?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: 28.
Matt: 28? Looking about, there are a number of birds in the distance. There's some that have flown overhead since you've been here. Nothing that seems to be acting erratically or out of the ordinary. There's a couple that have come in a little close to watch, and then went off their own way, curious as to what's going down in the ravine.
Liam: Those are some birds.
Laura: I think we should all be mist, though, while we wait for them to get back. Just in case.
Taliesin: I'm going to spend some time in this form just studying to see if there's anything odd about this circle at all. Studying the stones.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Where is the circle? Oh. Thank you.
Matt: Right, so Pike and Scanlan, you guys go mist form, make your way over back towards where the mansion was placed. Takes you a while. Are you going through the ravine, or are you going over the ravine?
Ashley: Over.
Matt: Okay. So the two of you guys coast up to the side and over the top of the wall. There is some heavy dead forest area here, but you coast on the side of it, keeping an eye down. Both of you guys make a perception check.
Sam: Terrible. 11.
Liam: Ashley's got this.
Ashley: 21.
Sam: Ooh, my girl!
Matt: As you guys are pulling around and the weather has gotten a little better for the moment; the storm hasn't hit yet. Pike, you glance off and you can see some stirring down in the bottom of the ravine. You see two white wings (wingbeats) and you watch as Vorugal takes off like a bat out of hell up out of the ravine, past both of you, and you can feel the wind shake and the actual ravine quakes slightly at the presence as Vorugal shoots up into the air, spirals up, then wings go out and then coasts off westward, away from you guys.
Marisha: Oh, away from us?
Matt: Away from you guys in a western direction.
Ashley: Away from them, too?
Liam: Away from us.
Marisha: He's going west.
Liam: We're east.
Ashley: So you guys are fine.
Taliesin: Wait.
Ashley: I try to make wide eyes.
Marisha: (gasps) Does this mean we can dig?
Laura: Did we see him go in the air from where we are?
Matt: Make a perception check, actually, Vex.
Ashley: We should take his loot.
Travis: (laughs) Yeah. That ends well.
Laura: 20.
Matt: You do hear what sounds like heavy wings echoing through the ravine towards your direction. You see a faint movement in the sky, and then it vanishes and you hear the sound getting more and more distant. You gather Vorugal has at least left the lair. You're not sure how long.
Laura: I come out of mist form. Vorugal's not here right now. If you're going to dig, do it. I'll keep an eye on the sky.
Marisha: What do you guys think, should I do it? Over the earpiece.
Travis: No.
Taliesin: I think we should.
Travis: No.
Taliesin: I think two crow's nests for the shooters.
Laura: Do it quickly, if you're going to do something.
Taliesin: I draw out, really quickly in the snow--
Laura: I draw out an intricate map. Blueprints.
Matt: Meanwhile, Scanlan and Pike, you guys make your way back to the mansion? Coasting over, you find your way. You make your way into the mansion. The servants are rushing two platters out of the kitchen down to the stairs that lead to the subterranean portion of the mansion.
Sam: Okay. Kima, sorry to interrupt lunch--
Matt: You come downstairs and her armor is off, her maul's at the side. She is on the ground in the process of doing one-handed push-ups and scarfing chicken with the other hand. She's getting ready for a fight today.
Sam: Disgusting.
Ashley: That's amazing!
Matt: She stands up. "Damn right, it is. Stringy."
Ashley: We came back for you because he's going to build a mansion somewhere else.
Sam: We need to move.
Matt: "Okay." She takes one of the pieces of chicken and pockets it.
Sam: That will disappear when we leave here.
Matt: (groans) Pulls it out. Sucks it off the bone and throws it to the ground. It clatters off to the side. "All right, let me grab my stuff." And she goes and gets her armor and starts putting it on. "Do you want to help me?"
Ashley: To hold some stuff?
Matt: "Put the armor on! You know to put on plate. Come on." You help get her armor on.
Sam: Do you need me to help, as well?
Matt: "No!" You help her get all armored up. She gets the rest of her stuff. She came relatively light, other than the materials she needs for combat. She's ready to go in the next 15 minutes or so. "All right. So. Where's this going down?"
Sam: I produce one half of the stones that we brought, and I say-- oh wait, does she know how to do this? I guess you just think, right? You just think. You have to think. I know that's hard, but you're going to have to hold this rock and want it to be reunited with its pair. I'm sorry about that. And then you'll be bamfed back to where we're going, all right? Here, take this stone. All right, so we'll just step out of the mansion. I won't drop it yet, because there's no need.
Matt: All right.
Sam: And we're going to mist back, but after she's bamfed. All right. So think happy thoughts, click your heels together.
Matt: Steps out in the snow, crunching sound of her boots, closes her eyes for a second, opens one back at you, Scanlan. Focuses and concentrates. The minute progresses. She clutches it and touches the actual stone to the outside of her holy symbol. You see the small platinum outline of Bahamut's head. As it hits, it begins to glow. The blue glow is also surrounded by the bright white glow of Bahamut's light, and as her outer form begins to shimmer, it blinks out with a spiral of a glittery white light dust, and her form has vanished.
Ashley: She's the coolest.
Sam: She's okay.
Ashley: She was doing one-handed push-ups and eating chicken in the other.
Sam: Can you do a one-handed push-up?
Ashley: Yeah.
Sam: Can I see?
Ashley: Yeah. (laughter)
Matt: And with those gauntlets, she does easily, fully armored and all. She's leaving this little Pike shape in the snow right there.
Sam: Can I try a one-handed push-up?
Matt: Make a strength check.
Sam: Seven. (laughter)
Matt: (grunts) Two-handed push-up.
Travis: On his knees.
Sam: I'm carrying a lot of stuff. Without my gear, I could probably do it.
Ashley: I understand. You're also carrying a mansion or something.
Sam: Yeah. Magic weighs on you.
Ashley: Magic weighs a lot.
Sam: All right, let's go.
Matt: All right. You guys mist back, begin cresting over to return.
Sam: Scanning the skies for any sight of a flapping white dragon.
Matt: Okay. While that's happening, what are you guys doing?
Taliesin: I'm making ice plates.
Laura: I'm keeping an eye out for Vorugal or anything suspicious.
Marisha: I guess I'm making tunnels.
Matt: Using Move Earth?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Let me see here. Move Earth is you can reshape any dirt, sand, or clay in the area. Not stone.
Taliesin: Not stone?
Matt: Cannot manipulate natural stone or stone constructions.
Travis: Or a budget rental center. (laughing)
Laura: So you can make walls.
Taliesin: Can you manipulate ice?
Sam: She can manipulate ice.
Taliesin: Can you manipulate ice?
Marisha: I can melt ice.
Taliesin: But you can't create ice.
Laura: Even if she did, it has to be something not noticeable.
Taliesin: I think that we could--
Marisha: I can make some more plant life.
Matt: Do you have Stone Shape prepared?
Taliesin: Stone Shape?
Marisha: No.
Matt: Yeah, Stone Shape would've been the spell to use in this circumstance.
Marisha: Cool.
Taliesin: If we pull some of the ice, I can try and make sheets of ice--
Marisha: But how long does Stone Shape last? I thought it was just for a little bit.
Matt: Stone Shape is instantaneous. It just affects something.
Marisha: I know, but how much? It's only like a five foot cube, right? So I can't make a tunnel.
Matt: Not a heavy tunnel, no.
Marisha: Right, so no.
Taliesin: We can alter the topography just a bit by taking out some of the ice and then opening it up to make hiding places.
Marisha: I can make a little trench, like a trench wall-line for you guys at the top of the ravine, for the shooters.
Liam: Yeah, half-bubbles almost.
Marisha: Yes, exactly.
Travis: 80 to 100 feet up, right.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Laura: Yeah, I can shoot from that height.
Marisha: Right along the ledge.
Laura: Actually, after you do it, I can try to disguise it, so it's not seeable from the air.
Matt: Okay, so what are you doing? You're making a small ledge?
Marisha: So yeah, I'm going to do Wall of Stone. Fuck.
Taliesin: We don't need a ton of space, because we're never going to move more than six.
Marisha: Yeah, I basically want a little almost half wall for cover here and here, just extending the stonework.
Matt: Just out this way?
Marisha: Upwards. So that they can--
Matt: Oh, okay, I see.
Taliesin: Give us cover.
Marisha: Do the Gears of War.
Travis: Can I raise a point, Taliesin? Do you have anything to keep you from falling if he attacks you on that ravine?
Taliesin: It would be hard to fall if he attacks us. The best thing, actually, if he attacks us up there would be to jump.
Matt: So you're using it twice? Then over here, you said?
Marisha: You know what, let me flank it. Let me do one on that side and one over here. Yeah? You think?
Sam: Why a hundred feet up?
Travis: That's how tall the ravine is.
Sam: Can we just do 20 feet up?
Taliesin: You have a broom. I have a rope.
Marisha: Is this excessive?
Sam: Yeah! Why a hundred feet? Why not 20 feet? Why not 30 feet?
Laura: We can't do it in the middle of the stone. We have to do it at the top.
Sam: Why?
Matt: You could, technically.
Marisha: I guess I could, actually, because I can do a flat one. Okay. All right. You know what, I could make little pod bubbles for you guys on the half edge of the cliffs.
Taliesin: Make some pod bubbles.
Marisha: I'll do that.
Travis: Aren't those going to be obvious?
Taliesin: I'm going to start pouring water on this stuff, and it's going to be ice again so quickly.
Marisha: Yeah, if we try and camouflage it. Spend the rest of the day camouflaging it.
Taliesin: I've already started working on camouflage--
Marisha: The DM keeps looking at us like we're crazy.
Matt: I'm trying to figure this out, guys.
Marisha: All right. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to make (stammers) little balconies.
Liam: Spit some lyrics, girl.
Marisha: (giggles) So smooth. Yeah, little balcony ledges that they can go on.
Matt: Okay. We'll say...
Laura: He's like, "I spent a really long time carving this shit, you guys, and you're going to be altering it."
Matt: It's all good.
Liam: Is there any point to having you sharpshoot from behind that wall down below?
Matt: So right there is what you're saying? A little shelf.
Marisha: Yeah, little ledge. Yeah, a balcony. I want to make a cliff balcony.
Matt: How far up?
Taliesin: I would take it to the far edge. Even further.
Liam: If we're fighting, I'm not bound by shit, man. I can be anywhere.
Matt: Where do you want this to go, Marisha? Right there?
Marisha: One there, and one-- yeah.
Matt: Okay, so those are the two.
Marisha: And about what, 40 feet up? 50 feet up?
Taliesin: I'd say about 50 feet up.
Marisha: How about halfway up the mountain? I want to make it look rough, I want to try and camouflage it, and then I'm also going to help Percy and the rest of this excavation to use my Gust and little Create Water spells over top of it to start covering them with ice.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm creating a breakable ice shield for when it's time, but I'm just giving the nice cover.
Marisha: Yeah, cover it with ice to make it look like the rest.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and just roll a wisdom check. Roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: He normally only asks me that when we're making a terrible plan.
Taliesin: I know. Ooh! Check out the big brain!
Marisha: Check out the big brains on Brad! 23.
Matt: Okay. As an Air Ashari, you have a very firm understanding of airflow, temperature of air, and how best it can quickly freeze water. Over time, utilizing the spells at your disposal, over the next 30 minutes or so, you do manage to coat the visible recently created stone with a layer of ice that in some regard would help, hopefully, camouflage it.
Marisha: Oh, he let us do it!
Taliesin: I'm just going to spend all my time also trying to keep hiding it, keep reinforcing it. Once the mansion's available, I'm going to take water and slowly add layers.
Matt: Okay. Scanlan and Pike, you guys do manage to return, as you watch the party preparing these small little ledges outside of the ravine interior.
Sam: Hey, guys. Did you see the dragon leave?
Laura: I saw him fly away, yeah.
Sam: Should we be concerned at all?
Laura: That what? He's going to get help?
Liam: Well, maybe.
Sam: That he's going to meet up with Raishan? And fuck us?
Marisha: He was heading west, right?
Taliesin: Which is not the direction where Raishan is.
Marisha: Raishan was south. She was far south.
Travis: Can you do your detect dragons thing?
Laura: I guess. Yeah, I can.
Matt: Kima, at this point, by the way, has been off to the side, keeping watch, goes, "You guys expecting anyone?"
Sam: Oh shit.
Taliesin: Oh shit.
Matt: You see Kima drops the maul to the ground and points down. And you see, stepping up from the ravine from this side, this way, you see a small, stout-looking dwarf character walking up (footfalls). Bulbous red nose. You can see a thick winter coat over, cloth tied over the top of the head, a crossbow to one side. Walks up and goes, "Hey. Larkin, the one you hired. The mercenary to help you with this exchange."
Sam: We hired somebody?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Yes.
Sam: When was this?
Laura: Back in Whitestone. We hired somebody to come help us fight.
Sam: We did? Why on earth would we do that? We're super strong.
Marisha: I kick Scanlan a little bit.
Sam: Oh shit. Sorry.
Matt: "So. Glad we've all gotten together. I see you've begun your plans, so tell me. What is your plan?"
Marisha: Larkin, was it?
Matt: "Larkin, aye."
Laura: Larkin, do you have any spells you can use?
Matt: "I've got a few tricks up my sleeve, aye. Let's see how it pans out."
Ashley: I'm going to talk to him in Dwarvish, and I'm going to ask where he's from.
Matt: Okay, you ask him where he's from? "I don't feel comfortable speaking our language in front of people who don't understand it. It's impolite."
Marisha: She's good.
Laura: It is quite impolite.
Matt: Watch as Larkin's expression gets very dire for a second like, "what are you doing?"
Laura: I whisper to Pike.
Travis: Larkin, are you ready to help us kill a dragon?
Matt: "That's what you hired me for, isn't it?"
Travis: Aye. Don't you think dragons are just the biggest dick-fucks ever?
Matt: "To be honest, yes."
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Oh! Oh, Larkin!
Laura: Just fucking got it?
Sam: Oh, yes! I totally remember you, Larkin!
Marisha: I kick Scanlan again, for sheer joy this time.
Taliesin: We're setting up camp. The attack begins tomorrow morning. There's going to be a beast. There will be a fight.
Liam: Yeah. We kind of have a plan, but fucking dragons.
Taliesin: We'll see how it goes. We're going to try and tire him out.
Matt: "All right. I'll keep an eye."
Taliesin: Once he's tired out--
Matt: "So I'll go on your signal, then?"
Sam: Will you be joining us here at the battle or providing support from afar?
Matt: "I'll be providing support from a comfortable space."
Sam: What kind of support? Long-distance attacks or healing?
Liam: What's your style?
Matt: "Oh. Let's just say, in the beginning I'll go ahead and bring some pain from a distance and only close that distance when things get real nasty and hot."
Sam: And Larkin, the reason we hired you, now that I remember, was for your extreme knowledge of dragons and their behaviors. Tell me this: should we be concerned when this one leaves his lair about hobbling its lair or somehow preventing it from returning?
Matt: "Do you know when it's returning?"
Travis: No.
Sam: Well, we know that it'll be coming here for a fight.
Matt: "If you don't know when it's returning, don't step into its lair."
Sam: Is there a way to prevent it from getting back to its lair?
Matt: "Killing it."
Travis: Real simple answer, I think.
Taliesin: It's not like a vampire.
Matt: Kima leans into you Scanlan, "Who's this?"
Sam: Mercenary.
Marisha: Larkin.
Laura: We hired him.
Travis: Yeah, he's a real dead-eye.
Taliesin: There's also going to be a field of--
Sam: Ravenites.
Laura: Potentially.
Liam: Yeah. Told you it was complicated, yeah?
Matt: Kima crosses her arms for a second. "You also told me you had another ally coming."
Sam: We did?
Taliesin: We did?
Taliesin: I wasn't there.
Sam: Who?
Travis: We have a hard time keeping track of everyone that we hire and fire.
Taliesin: That's why it's going to be a great plan.
Sam: You know why? We have Pike! That's our other ally. She's here now.
Ashley: Here I am.
Matt: "I'm so confused right now."
Travis: Yeah, it's all right. Listen, all you've got to do is smash dragon with us tomorrow, yeah?
Matt: "Which dragon?"
Travis: The white one.
Laura: The white one that's here. That will be here.
Liam: The only one that's here.
Taliesin: Let's make the mansion right now. Please make the mansion.
Sam: I'll make the mansion behind a rock outcropping. Kima, I need your help to make sure I'm not spotted while I do this ritual.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: So this is great. Tomorrow, you pop in, you summon, we all pop back into the mansion. We're hiding in the mansion while the fight's going on.
Sam: Well, someone has to be on the outside watching to find out what's happening.
Laura: Right.
Marisha: Should we have someone near where the dragon is, so we can get eyes?
Sam: Someone who can be invisible, someone who can be a hawk or Ravenite?
Liam: Scanlan, what are you going to do? You going to pop this thing out and then hop in the mansion?
Sam: Tomorrow, we're talking about? Yes, absolutely!
Laura: So Keyleth could be a hawk over by Vorugal--
Marisha: Watching?
Laura: Is there any way to let us know, though?
Taliesin: Not if we're in the mansion.
Marisha: Yeah, because the earrings don't work through the mansion, right?
Matt: From the inside to out, no. They have to be in the same plane.
Sam: Well, someone would have to be next to the doorway, pop their head in and say, oi, it's on. But we also have these bubbles of watching around, don't we?
Taliesin: Which would be you and I before the fight.
Sam: Or I can just drop the mansion.
Marisha: Well, the mansion could be good if things go terribly wrong.
Liam: That's true. If the mansion door is open and hidden behind that outcropping of rock there, you leave the door open but behind it, Keyleth could take to the sky, I could find somewhere low and be hidden. I can dart inside. I can be inside in a second.
Sam: And at the very least, Kima can be waiting inside the mansion, as can our lesser stealthy friend Pike. At least keep them in there.
Laura: Yeah. Sounds great.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: It's a plan.
Sam: It's something.
Taliesin: It's a plan! Anything more complicated would immediately fall apart when anything shifts, which will inevitably happen.
Laura: Actually, can I do Primeval Awareness and search for dragons to see if Vorugal's even in the area at all?
Matt: Sure. As you concentrate, you get a very strong nearby presence.
Marisha: She came in the mansion with us?
Taliesin: No.
Sam: There is no mansion yet. I haven't done it yet.
Marisha: Oh, you haven't done it yet. Never mind.
Matt: And you sense a closing dragon presence. At which point, you hear in the distance (wingbeats).
Taliesin: Mansion.
Laura: Mansion. Right now.
Sam: All right, I will cast the mansion behind a rock.
Laura: And run into it.
Taliesin: We will see you in the morning.
Matt: To?
Travis: Larkin.
Matt: To Larkin? All right. He goes, "Right."
Taliesin: Thank you. Truly.
Laura: Seriously, get in the mansion! Right now.
Matt: You glance off the side, and you can see Larkin looking off into the distance, and the white dragon Vorugal is curling in the air, currently wrestling with something, and then shoots down back into the ravine to the lair.
Marisha: Can I get like a glimpse of it before I run in on what it is? 27.
Matt: 27?
Sam: It's Yenk. (laughter)
Marisha: Damn it!
Matt: What brief view you have, it appears to be, by its size comparison, small-looking, but glancing at it, it looks to be some sort of a dire bear or dire wolf. Some sort of large furred entity that is currently being torn apart mid-air.
Marisha: So it went hunting.
Matt: Apparently. May have been hungry.
Liam: Snack.
Matt: You guys make your way into the mansion for a bit of a respite. Kima carries out the end of it, steps inside. "I don't trust that dwarf."
Taliesin: Excellent. That's why you're here. That's why he's not in here.
Laura: He can't know that you know.
Matt: "Good to know."
Sam: Kima, if it would help, I can erase your memory of this whole thing--
Matt: "You finish that sentence, and I will destroy you where you stand, Scanlan Shorthalt."
Sam: I'll let it alone for now.
Marisha: Good idea.
Matt: "Come near me--"
Taliesin: We wake up early. Before the sun rises, those of us who have to hide, hide. Once we see them bringing him to the summoning circle, we call the beast and we wait. We are going to be in the most danger, because we're going to be right in the thick of it.
Laura: What if he sees you, Percy? I'm better at hiding myself.
Taliesin: We're both going to be hiding in an ice-covered cubby-hole.
Laura: A lot of white.
Taliesin: It's not possible to get to those cubby-holes without a difficult climb, is it?
Laura: I could always bring you up on the broom.
Matt: If you get dropped off by broom, it's easy. Where is the mansion door, again?
Sam: Behind the bigger rock where Percy's stationed right now.
Liam: Yeah, we should wake up before sunlight.
Matt: Guess we'll say, as you guys all vanish from there, the entrance is right there, to the mansion.
Marisha: Who's going to keep an eye on Larkin?
Taliesin: I think it's hilarious that we can think we can.
Sam: Larkin can take care of--
Liam: Also, we've no fucking idea where Raishan is or what she's going to do, if anything.
Taliesin: We know that the one place she isn't is in here.
Laura: Larkin is Raishan. Really?
Travis: Holy shit. I even got that. (laughter)
Laura: You're the last one to realize that?
Travis: You're the last person in this room and on the internet.
Laura: No!
Liam: It's me. I'm the last one. I had no idea.
Sam: Hey, it took me five minutes.
Taliesin: Wow! Oh my god, we're going to die.
Marisha: I knew the second she walked up!
Sam: Ashley figured it out before us.
Ashley: No, she told me.
Matt: As you guys rest to prepare for your next day's excursion, we're going to take a restroom break here.
Liam: It's half of us, Laura! Jeez!
Matt: We'll see you guys back here in a few minutes. [break]
Matt: Welcome back. So! After that brief break, you guys have taken your time in the evening to rest up and get your spells back. Prepared for the coming confrontation, your now one-day delayed confrontation with Vorugal. As your evening comes to a close, the next morning is now before you--
Marisha: Hang on, we weren't done. We weren't done. We have to do things.
Laura: Yeah. One last thing.
Marisha: We have to eat. We have to do the Heroes' Feast, for sure.
Sam: Who's going to do it?
Ashley: I am.
Matt: All right. Pike drops down a Heroes' Feast. 1,000 gold out of your queue.
Laura: That's okay!
Marisha: Worth it, man.
Taliesin: Worth it, man.
Matt: All of you enjoy your first non-chicken related meal within Scanlan's mansion.
Laura: Feels good.
Matt: First in a while, at least. So as part of the Heroes' Feast, guys, if you recall the details of that circumstance.
Sam: Immune to fear.
Matt: Immune to fear, definitely.
Marisha: Saves on wisdom throws.
Matt: Wisdom saving throws have advantage.
Marisha: Also plus 2d10.
Matt: 2d10 to your maximum hit points.
Marisha: And I think that's it.
Matt: And you're immune to diseases. Immune to poison.
Laura: (gasps) You're immune to poison on this?!
Marisha: That's right. Fuck you Raishan.
Sam: Advantage on wisdom saves. Immune to poison.
Matt: All right, so marking hit points. Let me know what your maximum hit point totals increases are, currently.
Sam: Increased 14 points.
Matt: 14 points to Scanlan's maximum hit points.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: 17 to Percy.
Marisha: An additional 11 to Keyleth.
Matt: 11 to Keyleth.
Liam: 15.
Matt: 15 to Vax.
Laura: I got two tens! I got an additional 20!
Marisha: You got two tens?!
Matt: Pike?
Ashley: I got nine, so that brings me to 97.
Matt: Awesome.
Travis: I got 11.
Matt: 11 to Grog, and then to Kima  eight. Write that down right there.
Marisha: And are we sure we don't want eyes on her? I'm not concerned about her well-being, clearly. I'm concerned on whatever her name she's saying she is right now.
Taliesin: My theory on that subject is that she's clever enough that eyes on her would not be helpful in the first place. It's best to assume that even if we could see her that she would be tricking us over what she's doing.
Sam: Okay and if she starts killing us, what do we do? Hide in the mansion? Regroup?
Taliesin: Hide in the mansion and worst-case scenario, scream that she betrayed us and that she promised that she would help kill the white dragon and see if they'll fight it out.
Liam: Worst-case scenario, we'll pull back towards the mansion if she starts whaling on us.
Taliesin: Yes. And definitely inspire some conflict.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Let's go fight.
Laura: Now we sleep.
Sam: Oh, sleep.
Matt: Your evening meal complete, you all find yourself back to full rest, preparing yourselves for tomorrow's grand showdown.
Taliesin: I'm at negative one.
Matt: You're now negative one to all of your rolls, ability checks, and saving throws.
Taliesin: Not to damage, though.
Matt: No. Just your d20 rolls.
Liam: You can get all 19s.
Laura: As I am going to sleep, I want to inscribe "sinaeth" on Fenthras.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What?
Matt: You don't know. Evening's rest complete, spells chosen for those who need to choose spells. Prepare yourselves for this confrontation. The morning comes. That early tension of imminent chaos fills the air. Conversation is short. What preparations do you wish to make this morning?
Taliesin: Vex is going to put me in that pocket.
Laura: Yes. I can't cast Pass Without a Trace on him from that far away.
Taliesin: We have Dust of Tracelessness.
Laura: Yes, but that's only tracks. While we're over there, before I go over to my side, I'm going to try to cover his area with Natural Explorer and try to hide him.
Taliesin: We're going to fly over there, as well. And then also we're attaching a rope, just in case.
Matt: Attaching a rope to?
Taliesin: To the wall, so I have something to climb down with if I need to. It's not going to be hanging out; it's all in.
Matt: Okay, the stone is like a smooth wall that comes out and then upward for the protective point.
Laura: I have climbing gear. You can use it as a grappling hook, maybe. Does that work at all?
Matt: You can fashion something. Make an intelligence check.
Laura: Ten.
Taliesin: Six.
Matt: It seems like it'll hold? You have a metal piece wedged into a part of the stone that seems pretty taut with the rope attached.
Marisha: Can I ask a logistical question? How wide and alive are those trees?
Matt: They are maybe a foot wide each, and currently, it looks like a lot of them are dying or dead from the perpetual snowfall and coverage that they are unused to.
Marisha: So Tree Stride probably wouldn't work on these guys. I'm wondering if I should waste my time.
Matt: Tree Stride. Same size as you. Some of them, maybe.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: Am I making us all Ravenites, or does that not even matter anymore?
Laura: I don't think that matters.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Have we left? Are me and Percy outside already?
Matt: You guys have gone outside if you're going to place him up in his perch there and help cover the area.
Liam: You have to do it, right? Because you're the one releasing this thing.
Sam: I guess if I'm going to be out in the open, I probably should.
Liam: And if you're doing it, does it take any more mojo to do it to all of us or just yourself? It can't hurt to do it to all of us.
Sam: Sure.
Laura: Make us all white Ravenites.
Sam: You mean wearing white clothes?
Laura: Sorry, I meant so we blend into the ice, not so that we're white. That sounded so terrible. I meant so that we're the same color as the ice and we're camouflaged! Like chameleons.
Taliesin: Are there actually enough albino Ravenites that we would stick out, or is that a common color?
Matt: You haven't really encountered any.
Taliesin: Oh, then I would recommend not. I would recommend white clothing.
Matt: You've seen varying shades of chromatic and metallic.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: Snow camouflage.
Taliesin: Snowy.
Matt: Okay. What are you doing?
Sam: I guess I'll make us all white Ravenites. Normal Ravenites with lighter-colored clothing that can maybe blend in. But also we can't dance very well and we clap on the two and the four. So yes, I'll make us all Ravenites.
Matt: Okay. So does that include Kima?
Sam: I can do eight people, so that's everyone, including Kima.
Matt: All right, so you are all currently for the purposes of this visually Ravenites of varying sizes and bulkiness. Okay, is everyone currently out and about right now? Outside of the house?
Sam: I'm going out.
Laura: Who all is leaving?
Sam: Oh wait, before I leave, doesn't someone have to buff me up for this spell?
Marisha: I do. Yep, I do. I'm going to cast Enhance Ability on your charisma.
Laura: How long does that last?
Marisha: An hour. So if we're ready to go?
Sam: Yeah, what time is it? Is it dawn?
Matt: You're not entirely certain. Make a survival check.
Laura: 18.
Sam: Eight.
Matt: You have no idea, Scanlan. It's about noon, from where you gather where the sun would be around that time based on what bits of shadows you can see. However, the sleet storm is starting to kick in, and you can see now the sheets of really cold rain with a slush to them are beginning to pound across the bottom of the ravine. The wind is picking up a bit, and the temperature is dropping significantly.
Laura: Bundle!
Marisha: Yep.
Sam: Okay. How will we know when it's time for me to release? We have to wait for Tooma to go report.
Laura: Is Vorugal back? He's back.
Sam: I assume.
Laura: Do we see Larkin around?
Matt: No, you do not see Larkin around.
Sam: Vax, do you want to go look?
Liam: For Larkin?
Sam: No, fuck Larkin. To see when Tooma's coming. I don't want to release this thing before Tooma is there reporting to Vorugal.
Laura: Well, maybe if we cause enough of a ruckus as soon as we release him.
Liam: I mean if we trust Tooma to hold up her part of the bargain, that dragon is coming here.
Laura: We need to make a lot of noise and then release it. Attract attention, release it, hide.
Sam: But when?
Laura: Whenever we want to.
Sam: No, when is Vorugal coming? We can't sit out here all day waiting.
Laura: Vorugal will come when we make a noise. He'll come over here.
Sam: The Ravenites have to tell him to come here first.
Laura: No, she told him that it's coming, I don't think she's telling him a specific time.
Sam: No, she's telling him now. Today. We told her to wait.
Matt: As you guys are having this conversation, Vax and Keyleth, you guys notice down off the southern edge of the ravine, you see three humanoid figures walking up to your direction, coasting along the side of the mountain range.
Marisha: Do they appear to be Ravenites?
Matt: After a short time inspecting them, they appear to be Ravenite in structure, yeah. They are dragonborn, they are heavily robed, and they are coasting up along the side.
Marisha: Vex, you want to talk to them? They might have told him. Might have been the ones that just told him.
Laura: I walk over.
Matt: As you acknowledge them and begin to approach, one of them breaks from the two and they stay back. As it approaches you can see the tall burly dragonborn form, this is Skork. You met when you first came to the ruins of Draconia. He approaches. "Tooma sends me. When are we to tell the dragon the hunt is on?"
Marisha: We're ready whenever you are.
Laura: Give us 30 minutes. And then do it.
Matt: "30 minutes. It will be done." He returns to the other two, and they begin to make their way rather briskly back towards the direction of Vorugal's lair.
Taliesin: When you see the dragon pop up into the sky and head this direction, start summoning.
Laura: Percy? Up?
Taliesin: Yes, please.
Laura: All right. I take Percy up top.
Matt: You bring Percy up onto the top. The rain is starting to come down hard now and you're instinctively getting chills and shivering a little bit. You get up into your little parapet area, place him there.
Laura: I try to move some snow around and try to block it.
Matt: Percy, I need you to make a stealth check. Just in general.
Sam: Who, me?
Matt: No, just Percy.
Taliesin: That's 16.
Matt: 16. Good to know. Okay. So you place him up there. What else are you guys doing? You have 30 minutes, 25 now.
Liam: I'm going to hide behind the stone that's in the bottom end of the screen I'm looking at. Nope, opposite side. Nope, opposite wall. Sorry. Behind it.
Sam: Oops, Percy died.
Laura: Don't say that again!
Liam: And I think I already said it, but the Deathwalker's Ward is set to cold.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Does anyone want to be invisible for an hour?
Travis: Are we not going to be in the house?
Sam: Some of us will be. Do you want to wait in the house, Grog?
Travis: Yeah, I'll be in the house.
Sam: And Pike, too?
Ashley: Yeah, I'm going to stay in the house for a little bit.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to cast it and probably go into the house.
Matt: So Pike is staying up in the house?
Taliesin: I would not object to invisibility.
Laura: Yeah, can you make us invisible?
Sam: I can make a couple of you invisible. Keyleth, do you want to make anybody invisible?
Marisha: I can't do that. You keep forgetting that's you who can do that.
Sam: You can't do that?
Marisha: No.
Sam: You know what? I can't do it, anyway. I think Gate is a concentration spell. Even if I'm reading it off a scroll?
Marisha: No, it takes an action to cast.
Sam: It is a concentration spell.
Matt: It is, and as part of the casting of it, it would drop concentration.
Sam: Okay. Then I can't make anyone invisible.
Laura: Can I fly up and see if I can see Percy before I head over to my side?
Matt: You glide up into the air. Make a stealth check.
Laura: I don't want to go too high! 17.
Matt: Okay. You coast up. Make a perception check.
Laura: 32.
Matt: Against the white snow and the ice, the parapet structure itself is slightly off-color to the rest of the ice, and you do see the gleaming of Percy's cloak through the cover you've placed.
Laura: Shit. I dive back down and try to cover him a little bit more before I head over to my side.
Matt: Okay, that'll be the rest of this 30-minute preparation for you to do that. All right, who else is doing what now?
Marisha: I think I just peed a little.
Matt: Keyleth is peeing a little.
Laura: I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on myself as soon as I get to the other side so I can stay stealthed on my side.
Matt: Where are you staying, then?
Laura: On the other ledge. Yeah. I'm trying to hide myself.
Matt: Okay, roll a stealth check. And Trinket is staying in your necklace?
Laura: Yes! 32.
Matt: 32, good to know. All right. Pike, what are you doing? You're staying inside the mansion right now?
Ashley: I'm staying inside the mansion for right now.
Matt: Okay. Any other spells or casting preparation? Consider what spells you have that are not concentration that help defend. This is the time to do it.
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and wait until the 15-minute mark-- no, I'm going to wait until the ten-minute mark and then Enhance Ability on Scanlan.
Matt: Okay, got you.
Travis: If you pour poison on a blade, do you get poison damage if you hit them with it?
Matt: If there is a blade you can apply poison to, then yes, you would probably do a little bit of poison damage.
Laura: You know what, I want to pop Trinket out. I want him to be in the mansion with Pike and Grog. Go!
Matt: Grog, you're in the mansion, as well? All righty. Kima is like (anticipation noise).
Laura: Hide, Kima! Oh, she doesn't have an earring.
Matt: Nope. She joins you guys in the mansion for now. And Vax, you're hiding over behind that rock? Roll stealth, if you could.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: Okay. You grasp onto the rock, and much like the elven cloaks in Lord of the Rings, you blend in with the stonework.
Liam: I'm going to go meditate on disguised dwarves. Goodbye.
Matt: Grog, any preparation you're doing for this? All righty. As time begins to tick down, 15 minutes left, ten minutes left--
Marisha: I cast Enhance Ability on Scanlan.
Matt: Okay, you're enhancing his?
Marisha: Charisma.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: And then I am going to move. We don't have anyone over here yet, really, correct?
Matt: No. You have Percy up here but no one down there.
Marisha: All right, I'm going to-- fuck.
Matt: Going to?
Marisha: Hide behind the tree and stealth as much as I can.
Matt: Okay, roll a stealth check.
Laura: Keyleth, shouldn't you hide in the mansion?
Sam: Can you become an animal?
Laura: Shouldn't you hide right now? Just be out of the way until Vorugal--
Marisha: I can be an animal if you feel like you want eyes out here, as well, but I won't be able to go elemental.
Taliesin: Then no.
Sam: Ever?
Marisha: Until I rest.
Laura: We've got eyes on. We're above. Just go hide.
Marisha: All right, I go in the mansion.
Matt: Okay, Keyleth makes her way back into the mansion. All right. Five minutes. Four minutes. Three minutes. Two minutes.
Sam: I will inspire myself.
Matt: Okay, that's part of your ability.
Sam: Yes, I will say to myself  all right, Scanlan. I know that your palms are sweaty. Your knees are weak, arms heavy. There's cologne on your tunic, Grog's spaghetti. But just remember. You're good enough. You're smart enough, and doggone it, people like you.
Travis: Did you merge 8 Mile with--
Liam: With Stuart Smalley.
Matt: All right, so. As you step forward, where do you want to open the Gate scroll?
Sam: I'm still going to hang out by the rocks, and I can go at least 60 feet in front of me, but I'll do 50 feet.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: In the center, basically.
Matt: About there?
Sam: Yeah, sure.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Remember to be super direct with his name.
Sam: And his name is Yenk?
Marisha: Here, let me give you the script.
Matt: As you pull the scroll out, fumbling in your fingers slightly, you're slightly sweaty and nervous.
Sam: I'm not going to read it until I hear wings flapping.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: It takes six seconds to do, right?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Oh boy. That's an eight.
Marisha: You have advantage on charisma checks.
Matt: This is not charisma. This is his perception.
Laura: Do we see him in the sky at all?
Matt: You make a perception check. Don't hear any wings. You're listening; the wind's (whistles), the sound of the rain hitting the ground.
Laura: 19.
Matt: You begin to hear the flapping of wings in the distance and you glance over.
Laura: Scanlan! What are you doing? Cast it!
Sam: Okay, I'm casting.
Matt: Okay, as you pull the scroll out and begin reading it, the sigils and arcane glyphs are ancient and convoluted, and you're trying to trace them with your eyes and you begin speaking, letting the ancient knowledge that you've gained through your existence of wandering Exandria begin to pour out on its own. You feel the magic take hold and your grip tightens as the script begins to light up with a slight bluish-purple tint. As it begins to light up around, I need you to check to see if you succeed in reading to scroll.
Sam: Okay. So I roll with advantage?
Matt: You roll with advantage. Highest of two.
Sam: (gasps) Not great. Okay. And what am I adding?
Matt: Your d12 to it. So roll a d12. And plus two.
Sam: Plus two?
Matt: Plus two because Jack of All Trades.
Sam: Plus my charisma?
Matt: Plus your charisma bonus, which is six.
Sam: 20.
Matt: Okay, the DC was 19. (yelling)
Marisha: Every little bit helps.
Taliesin: Oh, we made the gumbo.
Matt: As some of the glyphs begin to shake and part of the scroll begins to burn at the edges, you maintain concentration, staring at it. The rain's hammering down on the scroll; it's growing slick and pouring off into the center of your sleeve. You're soaked to the bone now and shivering as you're reading out these various language bits that are flowing through. You're now an instrument for the spell that is beyond your capability, and as suddenly the spell finishes, your fingers tighten and the scroll bursts into flame and turns to dust around you. And for a split second, you think you may have failed. (spell noises) This giant bluish doorway erupts across the way.
Sam: Facing away from me.
Matt: Facing away from you. You see, all of you, that the somewhat dark and shadowed ravine is now suddenly aglow with bright vibrant bluish light. The blue light turns to crimson, to a deep burning red, and you hear this horrible, deep sucking sound. And you watch as Yenk the goristro is thrown from it, landing in the center of the ravine, fist to the ground--
Laura: We're going to die!
Ashley: We're going to die!
Matt: Are you leaving the gate open?
Sam: No, I close it instantly.
Matt: Okay, the gate slams shut behind, the reddish light then now being consumed with a final blip of blue before it disappears.
Sam: I'm going to tiptoe backwards into the mansion.
Matt: Well, the goristro swoops the head over in your direction. I need you to make a stealth check.
Sam: That's a seven.
Liam: Oh, Sam! (groans)
Travis: (whispers) Roll a little better.
Matt: You watch as the hulking behemoth, its extremely muscular body covered in fur and bony protrusions like spikes that jut out of its form, horrible hooked teeth and giant curled horns that push forward with brass jewelry emblazoned across the bone. Whips around, its red eyes beaming straight on you. In a deep, guttural voice, it (foreign words) and begins to just lumber in your direction.
Marisha: Oh god!
Matt: For right now, I need you, just for right now, Scanlan, roll initiative.
Laura: Oh my god.
Sam: 21! (cheering)
Matt: All right, you're going before it does. What are you doing?
Liam: Bamf to the door and go in!
Travis: Focus your chi.
Sam: I sing at it.
Laura: Oh my god.
Taliesin: No, he's got a movement and an action.
Sam: I sing at it. I will sing  (singing) Yenk, you will be our friend, travel through the portal and back again. Your heart is true, you're a fiend and a confidant. Boom boom boom. (speaking) All right, so I will Dominate Monster, with the hand cone.
Matt: Right. All right. Puts you at a full DC of what?
Sam: 21.
Matt: 21. That is a 13. Those who are watching, Yenk comes barreling, and then comes to a stop and stands there, looking down at this tiny gnome about 40 feet away and nods.
Sam: I say, you will stay here, and you will kill a white dragon.
Matt: You see steam shoot out from the nose as now you notice the sound of the wings. (whooshing)
Sam: And I will tiptoe back into the mansion.
Marisha: That was the coolest thing you've ever done!
Matt: At which point--
Taliesin: No! (yelling)
Sam: It's huge!
Laura: Oh no, he's so big!
Travis: Holy shit.
Liam: Make all the action figure sounds, Matt!
Ashley: That's a biggie.
Matt: At this point in time, Vorugal lands. (snorting) And unleashes a torrent of frozen ice in this direction.
Marisha: I've been waiting for this all week!
Laura: I hope we can take it and it actually does damage.
Matt: That is going to be--
Marisha: Just dies instantly. Oh fuck. Apparently white dragons are its weakness.
Laura: I know!
Sam: We're in a lobby, eating chicken.
Travis: A little elevator music playing.
Matt: As the blast hits, you can see coats of ice across the floor. So you guys are aware, the ice and sleet and everything here is making the entire terrain rough terrain. So everyone is at half speed on foot in this entire battlefield. You can see the actual air around Vorugal itself is crystallizing into thick mist that surrounds his form sightly. Yenk is blasted with all this frozen frost-breath, and you can see the icicles crystallizing against his form. (roars) Goes running forward, and slams, goring with its horns into Vorugal's chest.
Laura: This feels like more like playtime than anything. All the action figures: bam bam bam!
Matt: Watch me play with my toys, guys! All right, you watch as the horns slam into Vorugal's chest, not really expecting the ferocity and the sheer force of this entity it's unfamiliar with. The horns spark with flames, strangely. It also tears this giant gash in two points across Vorugal's chest. You can see white scales fly from the impact. And also, okay. It is not pushed. Vorugal stands its ground as Yenk pulls back. You see dark purple blood from the edge of the horns of the goristro. End of his turn. All right, does not save against the Dominate Monster.
Sam: Yeah, that means he's still dominated. Okay.
Taliesin: He has not realized this is possibly a poor idea.
Travis: Yenk's going to go, "Come on, chum. Let's be friends."
Matt: It did take damage from the ice breath, so it would have been trying to make its save. Did not make it. At the end of Yenk's turn, Vorugal is going to use two of its legendary actions to do a wing attack. With a three, Yenk is knocked prone, and he suffers 15 points of bludgeoning damage. At which point, Vorugal's moving. Takes up into the air, right above. Now coming to Vorugal's turn. Vorugal gets cold breath back. And while Yenk is on the ground, looking upward and trying to get back up from the slick snow, releases another blast of cold breath down onto Yenk once more. Constitution save, plus 14. Does make its save again. It's a hardy individual; constitution saves are high. It causes this cluster of ice to gather around his form, and he breaks free. Vorugal is then also going to use its flight to move over this way and spin around.
Liam: Natural 20 on my stealth.
Matt: Yenk is going to use its turn to stand up. It looks around. It does make its save, breaking Dominate Monster, so that is gone.
Sam: Okay. Would I feel that? No, I'm on another plane of existence.
Matt: You're on another plane of existence. You guys are all in this quiet space, fingers crossed, hoping right now. Yenk looks frustrated at this point in time. Not a whole lot I can do right now at the moment, so it's going to run beneath and attempt to leap to grab it. Unfortunately, it does not make the full height. Leaps up in the air with all its strength; its thick muscular, hoofed hind legs crouch down and leaps in the air, its giant claws reaching forth, but Vorugal keeps just out of reach and kicks out with its claws and tail, knocking it back onto the ground. It lands, no effect. Vorugal's turn now. Actually, at the end of Yenk's turn-- no, it's not close enough. Come back to Vorugal's turn. Vorugal does not get the ice breath back. It's going to swoop down, eager to finish this hunt, and is going to unleash a series of attacks. Yeah, this is an interesting dynamic right now, because it looks like Yenk is resisting a lot of the cold impact from this. Vorugal's going to do a full range of attacks. Hits with the bite, hits with the claw, hits with the tail. Lands and bites into him. You see ice shards go shooting off from the impact with the teeth. Both claws tear into the chest, but you can see the flesh itself is hardy and resistant to the dragon's attacks. It's damaging it, but Yenk is definitely made of sturdier stuff.
Laura: While this is going on  Percival.
Taliesin: Yes?
Laura: If Yenk dies really fast, what do we do?
Taliesin: I'm going to signal them to come out.
Laura: Oh fuck.
Matt: Okay, it comes to Yenk's turn now. As you guys are having this conversation, he is going to make two of its fist attacks and one with its hoof.
Sam: Yes, Yenk! Yes!
Matt: A hit. A miss. And a hit.
Taliesin: He's expending power, as well.
Marisha: Yeah, he's burned two of his legendary actions already. Yeah, we're watching the dragon burn through his legendary actions.
Taliesin: That's the other thing.
Laura: Oh, that's great!
Matt: Legendary actions it gets every turn.
Laura: He hasn't burned through any resistances, though.
Matt: You watch as after the clawing goes through Yenk's chest, Yenk reaches up and grabs the edge of Vorugal's scaly back of its head and uppercuts right into the jaw, and then brings up one of its hooves and straight-up chest kicks with the sharpened hoof into the center of Vorugal's chest. It leaves Vorugal stumbling back for a second. At the end of that turn, it's going to use two of its legendary actions to once again beat its wings. Yenk, not being a very dexterous individual, fails and gets knocked prone once again, sending Vorugal once again up to there. Back to Vorugal's turn, he does not get the ice breath, but it looks like Vorugal actually is moving further and further away and is biding his time.
Sam: I'm going to cast Invisibility on myself and poke my head out the door. Yeah, that'll work.
Matt: Yeah, you look out. Make a perception check. The sleet is coming down pretty hard, so you're having to glean what you can.
Sam: Fucking eight.
Matt: You can see some movement of dragon stuff in the air, and you hear various pitches of growling, horrible, angry yelling in the center of the battlefield.
Marisha: So we know they're here.
Matt: You know they're there.
Sam: Battle is still going on. I'll check again in 12 seconds.
Matt: Yenk's turn, very frustrated, can't seem to figure out what to do, is going to attempt to leap once more. Nope. He runs, leaps, tries to grab at the foot. Vorugal steps out of the way. Yenk finishes landing on the opposite side; no effect. Turns around. All right. Vorugal. Gets the cold breath back. He is going to fly backwards, and as it does, sprays an unholy mess of frozen breath energy down towards Yenk, who does not make the save, but still takes resistant damage, thanks to cold resistance. You watch with each impact Yenk's open wounds are getting frost shards jammed into them. Right now, it looks like Yenk doesn't have much of a recourse until Vorugal is on the ground, and Vorugal seems to have noticed this and is starting to keep a distance, and is waiting.
Marisha: I can ground him.
Sam: And expose yourself?
Marisha: I'm just throwing it out there. I can ground him.
Matt: Back to Yenk's turn. At the end of Vorugal's turn, Vorugal is going to take up about ten more feet... to get completely out of his leaping range there.
Liam: How high is he?
Matt: Right now? 60 feet up. Yenk leaps and can't quite get that height and angrily begins to reach over and climb up the side of the mountain there.
Liam: Can I attack him right now?
Matt: What's up?
Liam: Can I attack him right now?
Matt: Which one?
Liam: Vorugal. 60 feet. I'm sharpshooter; he's 60 feet away from me.
Matt: 60 feet is your range. He's a little higher than 60 feet from the angle.
Sam: Are you on the ground?
Laura: He's on the ground.
Liam: Pop out the wings.
Matt: Or the wings, you could do that.
Liam: Fly within 40 feet of him. Throw Whisper at his ass. That's what I'm doing. Assassin.
Sam: Are you going to go up his ass into his stomach?
Laura: In the dragon again.
Sam: In the dragon!
Matt: All right. As you step over, the wings unleash and you fly up right underneath Vorugal right there.
Liam: Do I need to roll for stealth, though?
Matt: No, you're still stealthed. You were holding that, yeah. You don't seem to be noticed. Right now, Vorugal's attention is faced over as it's floating, staring at Yenk, who's now starting to climb up the side of the mountain.
Liam: So finally, this is advantage and an automatic critical hit? Assassin trait.
Matt: Well, let's see. I'd say, given the circumstances, it is unaware that you are part of the battlefield, even though there is a current threat in its circumstance, so in this situation-- let me double-check real fast.
Sam: It's not even a Dungeons and Dragons book.
Taliesin: It's a cookbook!
Sam: They're all people!
Sam: It's a cookbook!
Taliesin: It's a cookbook!
Matt: I would say, given the fact that it's completely unaware there was any other combatants in the vicinity aside from Yenk, I will allow this to be a surprise attack from you, though he is not considered surprised to anybody else. There isn't a surprise round.
Liam: All right. I rolled a 28.
Matt: Oh, that hits.
Liam: This is Whisper. I'm using Whisper. I'm going to cast Divine Smite on the attack, as well.
Matt: All right. Roll damage on that.
Ashley: Kill him. One turn.
Liam: Here we go. Two.
Laura: (laughing) Four!
Liam: Hold on. No, so all the dice first. Two plus the psychic damage, which is 1d8. Nine. Plus the Divine Smite, which is 15. Yeah, here comes the sneak attack damage. (counting) 38, plus my modifier which is 46. No, we double the dice first, so 38 times two. 76. Plus eight is 84.
Matt: 84 points of damage against Vorugal. Are you going with the blade, or you letting it sit?
Liam: Oh, I went with the blade.
Laura: So you're on Vorugal right now?
Matt: So as you throw the blade up, it strikes into one of the wounds that Yenk had already clawed under its chest, and the blade sinks up to the hilt and further in, and as you appear, you're actually wrist-deep in the wound right now.
Travis: Back in the dragon again!
Matt: You are right up with Vorugal right now.
Liam: I'm hasted. That's action number one. Action number two is to throw Whisper down toward the trees closest to you, DM, and bamf there, and use my bonus action to hide. I'll hit the ground, right?
Matt: The blade loses its luster and stumbles into the snow. (clinking) Hits the ground. It's out of range. It doesn't hit anything solid; you don't go with the blade.
Liam: I'm going to push off him, then.
Laura: You have wings.
Liam: Yeah, I know that. What did I use? I used 40 feet of movement?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Okay. I don't know how much I have left. If I'm hasted, I would have 120 total, but that's halved, so 20 feet, because you said rough terrain. But I'm in the air?
Matt: You're in the air, but there's a lot of sleet and rain hitting.
Liam: So ten feet. That's all right. I'm going to keep moving away. I'm going to use all my movement to get away from him and go away from his butt. I should have a bonus action that I can use. The rest of my movement, plus dash.
Matt: All right, before you get there, he's now (roars). The angry scream. Vorugal's head swoops around underneath and directly into your eyes as you dart away with the blade. He spins in place and bites at you as you're trying to pull away.
Liam: I have advantage on dexterity saving throws.
Matt: Okay. This is a bite attack, so it doesn't matter. So that is a 26?
Liam: That hits.
Matt: All right. So you take 22 points of piercing damage.
Liam: Okay. Can I Uncanny Dodge this? Is this melee?
Matt: Yeah, it's a melee attack, so you can do that. Plus 14 points of cold damage.
Liam: Which is halved because of my armor, so 26 down to 13 and seven. 20 total.
Matt: Yeah, 20 total, reduced by half because of Uncanny Dodge, you said?
Liam: Okay, so I'm down to 95.
Matt: Okay. So 95. You pull away to about there, the rest of your movement?
Liam: I want to use bonus action to dash. I don't know if that gets me 60 feet away flying.
Matt: Flying, so it would be 30.
Liam: It's 120 hasted, so 60 feet halved.
Matt: Okay, so yeah, you can get all the way to the ground if you want to.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: You get down to the ground about there if you want. Okay. Now I need you to go ahead and roll initiative and put you on the initiative order.
Liam: Yes, sir.
Matt: You have now engaged.
Liam: Okay, so it's an 11.
Matt: An 11.
Taliesin: Have you said anything in the earpiece yet?
Liam: Well, you guys saw it. People inside can't hear me.
Matt: All right, so comes back to the top of the round now. Yenk is currently climbing up the side. Gets about halfway up the side. Is not entirely up, but is clawing up, and you feel the impact from where you're standing, Percy.
Taliesin: I'm holding.
Matt: Going to use the rest of his action to climb up. Gets all the way to the top of the ravine, which is about at the same height that Vorugal is. Based on your help, I need you to roll another stealth check because you helped him for the last half hour. You have advantage because she was helping you.
Taliesin: Oh! 13. 13, because I'm at a negative one.
Laura: 13? That's worse than it was before!
Matt: Yenk gets to the top and turns around and sees Vorugal off to the side, glances down and goes (foreign words). And is going to make a giant bowling underhand fist punch right towards you, Percy.
Taliesin: I was holding ready. Can I try and beat his initiative and get a shot off first?
Matt: As a reaction right now, you can go ahead and take a shot.
Marisha: It's time to go.
Sam: Has it been two rounds?
Taliesin: Jenga!
Matt: It's been more than two rounds since this started.
Sam: How about since I looked last?
Matt: It's been almost a round.
Laura: Can I see all this happening?
Matt: You do watch this happening.
Laura: I'm going to take an arrow and shoot it. I can see the door, but it's not going to register on a magical door, is it?
Matt: No.
Laura: Fuck.
Marisha: We're about to pop out.
Liam: Hey, B-T-dubs, I've just learned that Whisper can only bamf me once per round, right?
Matt: It needs to solidly hit something.
Liam: To stick within 60 feet. Got it.
Matt: You can't throw it as hard as you can and it'll teleport you wherever it lands. It has to impact.
Taliesin: I'm going to press a torso push with this, by the way.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm going to press a torso push. Better! 33. I don't even know why I bother. He's automatically pushed ten feet away from me.
Matt: He does still get the one hit on you, which is 27.
Taliesin: Oh, that hits.
Matt: You take 23 points of bludgeoning damage from the fist, and then the fist seems to sparkle with electrical energy as it goes to impact you.
Taliesin: That's magic.
Matt: It is not a magic spell, no. You take six points of lightning damage.
Marisha: Yenk is on top?
Matt: Yenk is at the top of the ravine.
Marisha: Isn't Percy halfway down?
Matt: Yenk got up to where he would see him and then saw him as he was passing by. Stopped to slam him.
Taliesin: So 23 plus six. That's fine. The lightning damage, the cloak doesn't absorb that?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Okay. Then I'm going to do my damage on him, which is new to me. That's terrible. That's 11 points of damage, plus two points of psychic damage.
Matt: 13 points of damage. Gets pushed back. Because he's still holding onto the edge, he has to see if he can-- No, it does not. Yenk loses grip from the blast of the gun after punching you, stumbles back. Claw hits the edge and falls down prone to the ground at the base of the ravine. 40 feet.
Taliesin: 50 feet.
Matt: 50 feet. Taking an additional 16 points of bludgeoning damage, which is halved.
Taliesin: Do I join the initiative order?
Matt: You do. Go ahead and roll initiative.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: 21. All right. That ends Yenk's turn. Vorugal does not get the ice breath back. However, does see both of you in the vicinity.
Laura: Me?
Matt: Does not see you, no, but it sees Vax and Percy.
Taliesin: It sees me? All right.
Matt: The blast of the gun and the impact and the whole encounter with Yenk exposed you. It's going to use its action to use Frightful Presence, so I need both Percy and Vax-- and Vex, actually, because you're still within the range-- to make a wisdom saving throw. You have advantage. You guys are immune to frightening, so it doesn't actually affect you regardless, so don't worry about it.
Liam: Don't roll?
Matt: Don't have to roll; you're immune to fear. Yenk makes his saving throw, so Yenk is not afraid, either.
Marisha: Thanks, Pike! Should we pop out? Should we do this?
Laura: No, not yet!
Sam: After 12 seconds, I will look. I will stick my head out and look again.
Matt: Vorugal is now watching the battlefield and seeing the people that have been revealed. Vorugal's going to go up a little higher.
Sam: He's a total not-a-good-hunter. I thought he enjoyed the hunt!
Matt: He doesn't enjoy being ambushed or in a fight that he can't win.
Sam: I've poked my head out to look.
Matt: Okay. You look out and you see Vorugal way high in the air. You see Yenk on the ground, and you see a couple of your companions less stealthed than they were before.
Marisha: What's it looking like, Scanlan?
Sam: I pop my head back in and I tell them  shit's going down. Should we go out or let this play out a bit? Yenk is not dead.
Taliesin: Jenga!
Laura: They can't hear you, Percy. I can hear you, but they can't.
Sam: Yenk is not dead, so we will be fighting Yenk, as well.
Ashley: We can't leave them out there alone.
Sam: I guess we go.
Ashley: Right? Are we going to leave them out there to die?
Marisha: I can try and ground him. It's a strength saving throw, though; it's going to be tough.
Laura: Try and ground Vorugal? Try it.
Marisha: I say, excuse me, Scanlan.
Matt: Those who are entering the fray, roll initiative.
Sam: I'm going to leave the mansion and start running.
Marisha: Son of a fuck!
Sam: 14.
Matt: 14. What did you get, Keyleth?
Marisha: Four.
Sam: That's top of the round!
Matt: Anyone else? Grog?
Travis: 15.
Matt: 15. All righty.
Liam: You get advantage, right?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Vex, do you want to roll?
Laura: I guess as soon as I see everybody run out, I would start attacking.
Matt: Pike, you as well?
Ashley: Five.
Sam: Yeah, this is great.
Travis: Wow. Fuck me.
Liam: Oh jeepers, we're going to die.
Sam: Don't worry, we've got our secret weapon. Our secret weapon, by the way, now wants to kill all of us.
Marisha: Did he lose his save against it?
Sam: He wants to kill us.
Taliesin: Except that he also has a dragon to contend with, so as long as we keep it a bigger threat than us, I think he'll keep his concentration where it is.
Marisha: We should still try to stay out of all this.
Matt: Everyone who has rolled initiative will be on the next initiative order. Vax, you're finishing up this round.
Liam: Oh, I am? I would like to throw Whisper to the rock I was initially hiding behind and bamf there.
Matt: Roll an attack roll.
Liam: Yeah. Sure, that's 25. I would like to use my bonus action to hide behind that rock.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll a stealth check.
Liam: That is a 25. Can I hold my last action?
Matt: You could hold an action to do one thing with a trigger, sure. You can use your hasted action.
Liam: I'm going to stay put. Stay hidden.
Matt: All right, that brings us to the top of the round. Percy, you're at the top.
Taliesin: Oh boy. Okay. I'm going to take a wing shot at that dragon to try and drop him. Come on. Natural 20.
Laura: (yelling) Yes!
Ashley: There it is.
Taliesin: Does the 1d6 also double? Is it all dice or just the standard damage?
Matt: No, the dice, as well.
Ashley: No mercy Percy!
Marisha: You're my favorite.
Taliesin: Oh, you say that now. Let's see how this goes. First the damage, which is not bad. 16 points of normal damage and 11 points of psychic damage, and he's prone.
Matt: What's the total on that one?
Taliesin: 16 and 11. That's 27.
Matt: All right. Well, it has to make a strength save.
Taliesin: No, not against the wing shot. Oh, strength saving throw; you're right. Against a DC of 19.
Matt: That is a success. 21.
Taliesin: Again. That'll hit. 31 to hit.
Matt: 31 will hit, yep.
Taliesin: Same thing. 15 points of damage plus one psychic, so 16.
Matt: 16, and what was the DC again?
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19? Just fails with an 18, so instead of being knocked prone it drops 60 feet per round.
Taliesin: So it's dropping now?
Matt: We'll say for now, yes, it's dropping.
Sam: Come on, Yenk. Kill that thing. (plastic platform clatters)
Sam: He died!
Taliesin: What should I make it have difficulty with? Not saving, but checks.
Sam: He's not going to have to check anything.
Taliesin: You never know.
Matt: There. All right, Percy. That was your second shot.
Taliesin: One more shot. First, I'm going to Hex the dragon. I'm going to give him disadvantage against strength checks. And I'm going to shoot him with a sharpshooter shot for my last shot. Come on. Yeah! 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Taliesin: This is good. (excited yell) 18. Oh my god, okay. 28 plus five psychic, so that's 33 points of damage, plus another d6. Plus another five necro.
Matt: Nice, 38. As you're aiming up as Vorugal's getting further and further away, you aim up and fire. One side hits it and wings it ever so slightly, the second shot you aim the other side it actually hits the joint and causes the wing to flap. Vorugal tumbles out of the air for a second and just manages to catch himself and the final shot impacts right in the back of the skull spines and shatters part of the bone and ice off of it, leaving a nice, fresh wound in the back of the head.
Taliesin: Now, I'm going to take cover in my little cove.
Liam: I'd like to think of you driving and cutting someone off on the 101 and going, "Plus five necro."
Taliesin: Plus five necro, motherfucker.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: He's checking the sheet. Oh no.
Laura: Oh no, what are you looking at?
Taliesin: It means there's a very angry dragon now that's looking at me.
Matt: Okay, so Kima, who's now eager to get out there goes, "Okay. All right. Let's do this." She's going to cast Aura of Vitality on herself as her action. Then she goes running through the center of the portal, leaps out, turns the corner to there and stops and goes, "Oh shit." That's her turn.
Marisha: That's her turn?
Matt: She's just entering the fray and did a preparation spell as part of that. Ending Kima's turn, let's see here. From out of seemingly nowhere in particular, you see a flash of electrical energy arcing from one of the nearby sections of the crevasse alcove. The bolt of energy arcs out and slams into Vorugal, who does not make the save, not seeing it there.
Taliesin: All right. We've got a game.
Sam: Five points of damage!
Marisha: What are you good for?
Matt: That'll be 41 points of lightning damage.
Sam: Okay!
Marisha: Remember, she learned from the druids a bunch of fucking nature shit.
Matt: One of the arcs tries to reach for Yenk and manages to disperse before it can get to it. It's not quite within range, but that finishes wherever that lightning source was. Yenk angrily is going to stand up and turn. It is going to attempt to run and grab up at Vorugal again.
Marisha: Come on, Yenk!
Sam: Come on, Yenk!
Matt: Leaps and misses, (impact) landing right next to the rock. That's a natural 20 on a perception check as it lands (impact) and looks over right into your face.
Liam: Hi.
Matt: Yenk is now aware of you.
Taliesin: He's just noticing everybody.
Matt: At the end of Yenk's turn-- that's not going to help him right now. That's going to end that. Vorugal's turn. Breath does return this time. Vorugal, from up here, is going to send ice breath across the entire ground, sweeping up across both Yenk and Vax. I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Could I use Evasion for this?
Matt: No, it's constitution.
Liam: All right. I'm going to use Luck. First Luck of the day. All right, 13.
Matt: 13? No. You suffer 72 points of cold damage, halved because of your resistance.
Ashley: How much, again?
Matt: 72, but halved because of your cold resistance. 36 points of cold damage to you.
Travis: Um. What?
Matt: Vorugal's then going to take higher up into the air.
Taliesin: Can he do that already, even recovering from the prone?
Matt: Yeah. The idea with prone is that unless there's something that maintains or it can't improve its movement past its next turn, it continues to fall. That's going to finish Vorugal's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'm up?
Matt: Yep. You're still inside the mansion.
Sam: Do not draw attention to yourself, friend.
Travis: Fuck that. We're all going down. I take the Titanstone Knuckles and I smash them together, and I use the Enlarge, and I will burst out of the mansion in a rage.
Liam: Big Grog!
Matt: So that's 30 feet of movement. You have 20 more feet, if you want.
Travis: No, remember it's halved.
Matt: All right. Then there, that's 25. That's your movement. The gauntlets took your bonus action. You can still use your action to dash, if you want to move further. Or do you want to stay there and hold your action?
Liam: Wait. I'm sorry. Yenk knew where I was. Did the dragon know where I was, too?
Matt: It's funny. It hit Yenk and the whole thing, but the dragon has an aerial view, and you have a single rock that you went behind to hide, and it saw you move behind the rock. You have to break eye contact to stealth.
Travis: I'll use that dash to keep moving towards the ice wall, towards you. Maybe two or three squares. That will be my turn.
Matt: You can get there. Hulking, axe gripped, giant Grog is leaping through the snow. (impacts) You're two-thirds the size of Yenk, right now, which is crazy. All right, that ends Grog's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Me? I'm still invisible. I'm going to leave the mansion.
Matt: You're not still invisible, because you cast Dominate Monster.
Sam: No, I cast Invisibility after I cast Dominate Monster. I'm going to leave the mansion and clockwise around the game board.
Matt: That's as far as you can get, there, with your reduced movement.
Sam: If I inspire, that kills my invisibility?
Matt: Technically, no. It's not an attack or an action, so I would say it wouldn't. It may give away your location.
Sam: Then I will use my bonus action to keep moving. To dash?
Matt: To dash is your action. You can do that, yeah. Your bonus action, that's only a rogue ability.
Sam: I will dash and keep moving away and that way.
Matt: This way? Okay. That's your action.
Sam: That's it?
Matt: Yeah. It's big, heavy snow and slick ice. You're having to be careful.
Sam: Okay. I don't want to draw attention to myself, so that'll be that.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: I'm only within range of Kima. I'm not going to give away my position to inspire her.
Matt: All right, finishing your turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Holy shit. Yeah, I'm going to take to the air. Holy shit. I'm going to fly within 60 feet of Vorugal. 55 feet away.
Matt: That will put you about there. Okay. Yenk has a reach of ten because his arms are long, and you're within his combat range, so as soon as you fly up, he swings out with his fist to attempt to impact you.
Liam: All right, Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: As you're with your wings, dagger out, this fist comes swinging like a battering ram from the side. That is 22 to hit. Misses. (whoosh) You just barely dodge out of the way. You feel the force of it, the wind batter a bunch of errant falling sleet and snow across your face, but you rush past, the hasted bonus saving you on that one.
Liam: Okay, so how far did I just go?
Matt: That would have been 55 feet.
Liam: 55 feet. I can go 120 in one action, so that's my movement.
Matt: Halved, yeah.
Liam: Halved, but 120, so that's my movement, total. I'm going to throw Whisper in his face. I'm not going to bamf there; I'm just going to throw the dagger.
Matt: Into Vorugal?
Liam: Vorugal's face. That's halfsies, so I'm going to roll it again. That's way better. That is a 32.
Matt: That hits. How many Luck have you used, by the way?
Liam: One. That is 12 plus the psychic damage.
Matt: I thought you used Luck once before, today.
Liam: I don't think so. Not since waking up.
Matt: It would have been yesterday. You're right.
Liam: 12, plus two is 14, and I'm going to cast Divine Smite-- no, I'm not. No, just 14 of damage, so that's movement, action. My next action I'm going to use to fly under him, halfway between Percival and the gang, and land on the wall.
Matt: Land on the wall this way?
Liam: Yeah. Now, that wall is higher up than it looks, so I'm really flying straight, right?
Matt: Correct. We'll say you're about there, technically.
Liam: Yes, and then for a bonus action, my last spell slot, I'm going to cast Shield of Faith on my fucking self for a plus two to AC.
Matt: There you go. Ending Vax's turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Yikes. Well. Are we outside the mansion?
Matt: No, you're inside the mansion right now. You just watched Grog, Kima, and Scanlan all dart out of it. Well, you didn't see Scanlan leave. Scanlan vanished.
Ashley: Scanlan vanished.
Matt: It's you, Trinket, and Keyleth.
Laura: Did I ever get on the initiative order?
Matt: What did you roll? Ten, right? You'd technically be after Vax. We'll do your turn after this, but you're after Vax.
Ashley: I'm going to pop out. Maybe I can stay in there and do this, in the door, and try to cast Divine Intervention.
Matt: Divine Intervention? All right, so you step out and you see this chaos happen: the dragon in the air, the fiend on the side, swinging and barely missing a flying Vax, who swoops past in the middle of this sleet storm. You close your eyes and concentrate, holding your holy symbol, praying that Sarenrae has the ability to reach beyond the Divine Gate and lend you her strength temporarily. I need you to roll a d10.
Marisha: Man, how awesome would this be?
Laura: It would be insane.
Matt: What did you roll?
Ashley: A ten?
Matt: A zero?
Laura: Yeah, a zero.
Marisha: (excited gasping) Shut the fuck up! She has to roll under her level, which she did.
Matt: So this succeeded.
Marisha: Shut the fuck up, Ashley!
Matt: So as you clutch your holy symbol, concentrating, hoping that she's there, feeling the division between the gods and their followers since the Divergence occurred. You've reached out to her a number of times. You look up through the darkness of your closed eyes, and you see a light, a beacon open. The clouds part, and suddenly the sound of rain goes away. The sound of all the chaos goes away, and it's just warmth and quiet, and you watch as Sarenrae's hand comes down and touches your forehead, and with your closed eyes, and says, "I'll do what I can." As she drifts away and smiles, you watch as her hand turns into a fist, and she looks up and disappears into the light. As you open your eyes, you now see up in the sky above Vorugal, the clouds that are dark, a sparkle of divine energy begins to swirl. As it grows stronger and stronger, the clouds suddenly part, and a giant column of divine energy (boom) slams down, right on top of Vorugal. Vorugal looks up just in time to try to move out of the way before it slams him back. Does not make his dex save with a roll of five. Vorugal suffers 50 points of divine damage and is slammed onto the ground. (cheering)
Taliesin: Stay down!
Marisha: Yes! Holy fuck! Pike! That was amazing!
Ashley: Oh boy!
Liam: Action figure is down.
Matt: Additional 26 points of bludgeoning damage. As the light column slams Vorugal to the ground, you can see some of the ice and snow underneath melts immediately, and what was once a column, you can see now looks like a giant fist made of spiritual energy that then withdraws slowly off the back of Vorugal and then dissipates before the clouds close up once more.
Ashley: Yes! It worked!
Matt: That's your movement and your action.
Ashley: For a bonus action, I would like to place a spiritual weapon at the back of his neck, since he's on the ground. And I would like it to be a very large flaming sword.
Matt: Okay. You watch as the hand of Sarenrae dissipates, some of the energy that's residual there lingers, and then forms into a flaming sword of pure golden-white energy. It is now hovering over the currently slammed-down, broken-looking body of Vorugal.
Sam: She's the best one of the group! (laughter)
Matt: All righty. That was... What level spell was that, again, Pike? Second level. Got it. All right, so make a melee spell attack against Vorugal. Roll a d20 and add, I believe it's 11. Roll a d20 and add 11 to it as the flaming blade attempts to strike down towards Vorugal.
Ashley: 25.
Matt: 25 hits. Go ahead and roll 1d8 plus five.
Ashley: Okay, well, six. Sarenrae did the damage.
Matt: Six points of divine damage.
Ashley: Sarenrae does 50 points of damage, and I do six.
Matt: Through you, did 50 points. You're still part of it. All right, that ends Pike's turn. Vex, we're taking your turn because you weren't in the initiative order.
Laura: That's okay. I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on Vorugal.
Matt: Because dragons are your chosen enemy, I'm giving you the plus two damage against it.
Laura: Okay, so I'm hidden, technically, so I get sneak attack on him, right?
Matt: Currently, you have not been noticed.
Laura: Okay, so I'm going to hit him, or try to. That is 34.
Matt: Yeah, that'll hit. Divine Intervention, man. Finally worked. Can't use it for a week, by the way, Pike, just so you're aware. Once it succeeds, you can't use it for a week.
Ashley: That's fine. (laughter)
Ashley: I doubt it's going to work again. That, I think, has never worked.
Marisha: You've gotten close. You've gotten really close.
Travis: Three years, never worked.
Laura: 30 points of damage on the first hit, and two of those are lightning.
Matt: Great.
Taliesin: Is it gargantuan? Gargantuan. Trust Travis on this one.
Laura: 22 on the second, two of which are lightning.
Matt: Okay. Nice. All right, that ends your turn. You used your bonus action to Hunter's Mark.
Laura: I did. I'm going to hang out there and duck down, if I can, behind my little outcropping.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. Oh god. I'm going to pop out of the mansion. I was expecting to do an Earthbind spell, but that's not necessary. That's okay!
Matt: Pike, do you want to move at all, or do you want to stay behind that rock?
Ashley: I'm going to stay behind.
Marisha: I'm going to fuck this guy up while he's down. I'm going to peek around the corner, going towards you a bit, and seeing everyone there and all this go down, I'm going to Fire Storm the fuck out of this!
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Death from above.
Marisha: Fire rains from above!
Taliesin: Fire rains from above!
Matt: How are you organizing the Fire Storm?
Marisha: I have ten of these? I'm shaking.
Matt: Fire Storm, you create ten ten-foot cubes. You can maneuver it to hit both him and Yenk, if you want to.
Marisha: Yeah, that's what I want.
Matt: Make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Get that epic loot drop.
Marisha: I know. I want it.
Matt: That is a failure on Vorugal, with a ten, and a seven on Yenk. They both fail, so roll damage on that. 7d10 fire damage.
Marisha: 7d10.
Laura: Hey, Matt.
Matt: Yes?
Ashley: 1d8 plus your spellcasting modifier?
Matt: Which is five. It's your wisdom.
Ashley: Spell attack bonus.
Matt: Yes, there's a difference.
Ashley: I understand.
Laura: Do it, Keyleth!
Taliesin: Want a bonus?
Laura: It doesn't count on the floor.
Marisha: I'll roll this one. It's eight! Okay, hang on. (counting) 30. I picked it up. 38.
Matt: 38 fire damage to both of them. All righty. The Fire Storm tears through the ravine. You can see the flames burn over Vorugal's body. Vorugal is now trying to get back up. (roars) He's extremely angry. The flames curl over Yenk, who bats away at them. It burns him, but Yenk does seem to resist it fairly well.
Marisha: I'm going to use the last bit of my movement to pop back behind the stone.
Matt: Okay. There you go. All righty, does that end your turn? Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to take aim and hold my full attack until he tries to get up.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Kima's turn. Kima sees the opportunity. Because of the snow, she can't quite get there yet with her full movement, unfortunately. All righty. Kima is going to use the rest of her action to dash and get right up next to Vorugal and is going to use her bonus action to use Vow of Enmity against it. She goes, "You are going to see Bahamut in pieces!" As she brings the thumb across, the holy symbol glows for a second. You see a mark emblazon and burn itself into the side of Vorugal's body. That's going to end Kima's turn.
Taliesin: That's a sick tattoo, y'all.
Laura: Maybe it's like Hex and Hunter's Mark.
Travis: We don't know what that does.
Matt: What's the range on that, actually? That's going to be a rough call. Okay, you watch as emerging from the treeline here, you see a little dwarf step forward, unaffected by the ice, and reach out a hand as a cluster of necrotic energy sparkles in the center. Leaps forward toward Vorugal. That is a success on the save, so it's half damage, but Keyleth, you recognize at a glance of your eye, this necromantic leap. This is a Blight spell.
Sam: Blight spell?
Laura: Who's doing a Blight spell?
Sam: Larkin.
Matt: Larkin.
Sam: He's secretly Raishan!
Liam: What? Where did that dwarf come from? Did you hire more mercenaries? When are they showing up? Hey, I'll own it. It's fine. It's been a long week.
Matt: Yenk turns around with a grin. (impacts) Coming forward.
Sam: Yes, Yenk.
Matt: Is going to make three attacks, and has advantage on these attacks, because it's prone. A five and a one. Are you serious? Misses the first strike, with advantage. Hits with the second attack. Hits with the third. Okay, so that's going to be 48 points of damage from Yenk. Slams a fist once and glides off the scales. Second one goes and slams into the side of Vorugal's neck, and then picks up the hoof and jams it into the side of the skull, cracking into the side of Vorugal's head. You can see some teeth break and get thrown off and scatter into the ice and snow nearby. At the end of Yenk's turn, Vorugal is going to go ahead and use two actions to wing attack once more, getting up. Let's see. Yenk's going to have to make a strength save. Fails. Kima fails, as well. They are both knocked prone and suffer bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Only if you're right on him? I'm only two squares away, I think.
Matt: You are also within 15 feet, Grog, technically, so I need you to make a strength saving throw.
Travis: 17?
Matt: 17 does not cut it. You take 15 points of bludgeoning damage and you are knocked prone.
Liam: All the trees are down.
Matt: It's rough. And Vorugal gets half its speed.
Taliesin: Oh no. He's even starting to move? I'm laying into him. Spending a grit point and I'm knocking him in the foot, back prone before he can even stand up.
Matt: Okay. How many grit points do you have, by the way, now?
Taliesin: This is my third or fourth because I did crit, so I got one back.
Matt: You did. This is correct.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Taliesin: That's a d10 and a d6, and another d6. 12 points of damage, plus one necrotic and two psychic, so 15 points of damage, and he has a save against 19.
Matt: That's a natural 20. Has disadvantage because of your--
Taliesin: No, I was about to say, it's a save, not a check.
Matt: Oh, right. Strength checks. So natural 20. Unaffected.
Taliesin: Unaffected? Again!
Matt: This is your last grit point.
Marisha: Can't say we're not honest.
Taliesin: Blowing it. It's worth it. Gun jams.
Matt: Gun jams.
Taliesin: You know what happens.
Matt: So as you go to fire Animus, it charges up for a second and blasts back, and you watch as a bolt of necrotic energy shoots up Percy's arm and into his head and bursts at his temples. You take 2d6 points of psychic damage.
Ashley: Does the spiritual weapon get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: No, it doesn't get attacks of opportunity. It's not a creature.
Taliesin: Ow. That's the end of my turn. I'm going to dive down and hide and hold.
Matt: That ends Yenk's turn. It's now Vorugal's turn. Gets the breath back. Turns around here. At the giant cluster of shit here.
Sam: He does not see me!
Matt: Doesn't need to. You're in a very big space there. I need Pike, Scanlan, and Keyleth to all make constitution saving throws.
Marisha: The cloak doesn't have anything to do with this, right?
Sam: Can I use Cutting Words to reduce the attack?
Matt: It's not an attack. It's an effect that happens.
Marisha: With advantage? Natural 20!
Matt: With advantage? Why do you get advantage?
Marisha: I thought you said advantage.
Matt: No.
Marisha: Fucking fuck! Well, then I guess I reroll.
Liam: Rolled two dice.
Matt: Roll one dice.
Marisha: I should have kept the first one. That's an 18, which is good! 23.
Matt: Okay. Scanlan?
Sam: 13. I add nothing to it, right?
Taliesin: Is it constitution saving? Plus two.
Matt: 23. Pike, what did you get?
Ashley: Nine.
Matt: Nine. Kima failed. So that is 72 points of cold damage to Scanlan, Pike, and Kima.
Ashley: Divided between us all, right? (laughter)
Matt: No, sorry. Halved to you.
Marisha: That's 36?
Ashley: Just 72?
Matt: Wait, does one of you have the Cold Snap armor on?
Laura: I do.
Matt: Oh yeah. So yeah, 36 cold damage to you, Keyleth. 72 to both of you and Kima. And Vorugal is then going to get back a bit and fly a little higher.
Taliesin: He moved really far in one turn.
Matt: The wing effect is a legendary action on somebody else's turn, and then on his turn, he has a speed of 80 feet, flying.
Taliesin: Even halved?
Matt: He's not affected by cold. Sorry, white dragon.
Taliesin: We're still going to need you, then, apparently.
Matt: That's going to end Vorugal's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Oh, well, he's in the air, which is my preference, all around. Can I get up, please? Now we're somewhere. Can I move directly under him as far as I can go?
Matt: That's half movement, so that's about as far as you can get right now.
Travis: Can I haste or pick my nose to go any further?
Matt: Unfortunately, no.
Liam: Hold for him to drop?
Travis: I will hold until he drops.
Liam: Oh, sad Grog.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Jesus. I will continue my movement clockwise around the board.
Matt: This way, you mean? That's your movement.
Sam: How far is he from me? A long way.
Matt: Quite a ways right now, yeah.
Sam: 150 to 200 feet?
Matt: Not quite that much, no. Maybe somewhere in the neighborhood of 80 feet.
Sam: Has my invisibility dropped when I got blasted?
Matt: Actually, make a concentration check with advantage, because you have War Caster.
Sam: Concentration? Is it plus anything?
Matt: It's a constitution saving throw.
Sam: 14.
Matt: 14. Yeah, no. You had to beat a 36 because of the damage from the ice blast. Yeah, your invisibility drops. You are now fully visible.
Sam: Okay. Is he within 120 feet of me?
Matt: Yeah, he's within 120 feet, probably.
Sam: All right, I'll punch him in the face.
Matt: Bigby's Hand?
Sam: Yeah. I will Bigby's Hand him.
Matt: All right. Bigby's Hand flies up to meet Vorugal.
Liam: Can you yank his shit down?
Sam: He's way too big. I can try to grab a wing.
Marisha: Can you grapple him? Grapple a wing?
Sam: DM, how does this work? I cannot grapple anything above a huge monster. Can I grapple part of a gargantuan monster?
Matt: Unfortunately, he's just too big for Bigby's Hand.
Sam: So I just punch him. Simply a punch. Bigby's Hand!
Matt: Roll a d20 plus your spell attack bonus.
Sam: 17.
Matt: 17. (whoosh) The fist swings past. Vorugal dodges out of the way, batting his wings and getting out of the trajectory of the fist that just streaks by harmlessly.
Sam: Great. I think I'm within range of Lady Kima? I can inspire her, maybe?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: You know what? Fuck her. I'm going to heal myself. (laughter)
Sam: She crossed me one too many times.
Marisha: She crossed you?
Sam: Fuck her.
Laura: Poor Kima. Trying to get mind-wiped so many times by him.
Marisha: He's a dick to her, and now he's angry about it.
Sam: Healing Word. Can I do level two? That's 2d4 plus six now?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: 12 points. Great. Okay. Thanks.
Matt: All righty. That's your turn, Scanlan?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Liam: Oh jeez! Really? Okay. So I'm right there. Am I within 60 feet?
Matt: Maybe.
Liam: I'm going to fly 20 feet forward through the storm toward him.
Matt: Okay. That will put you right about there.
Liam: Yeah. Dagger, dagger, dagger.
Laura: Oh, you have three daggers still?
Liam: They come back, man. First is 26. Second is a 17, but I'm going to use my second Luck, so the second is a 21. And the third is 19.
Matt: All right. The 17 and 19 miss.
Liam: Okay, so the first one was really high. The second two are mediocre.
Matt: The first one hits. The other two streak off.
Liam: Whisper hits.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Does he get sneak attack because I'm on the flank with my hand?
Liam: No, I didn't think so. That is terrible. That's just ten. And I use my movement to fly directly under him.
Matt: Okay. You're not going with Whisper?
Liam: Say again?
Matt: You're not going with Whisper?
Liam: No.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: No... Yes, I am.
Matt: Are you?
Liam: Could I have hit him in the tail?
Matt: If you want to, sure. Why not? You impact.
Liam: I got the blade on his tail, and I'm there.
Matt: Okay. You're right there with Vorugal.
Marisha: It's becoming a Jenga mini-game.
Liam: That's where I am.
Matt: All righty. That ends Vax's turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to try to hit him a couple times.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: My moves are really intricate. 25 for the first one, and I'm using Blazing Bowstring on this. Okay. (counting) Oh! Okay. I have 40 points of damage on the first hit, two of which are lightning, seven of which are fire damage.
Matt: 40.
Laura: And I get sneak attack because Vax is on him.
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Is that Fenthras?
Laura: It's Fenthras. And then 25 on the second hit.
Sam: Points of damage?!
Laura: No, that's just to attack. Oh, jeez Louise. (counting) 23 on the second one, with four points of lightning damage and two points of fire damage.
Matt: All right. So that's your turn?
Laura: And I'm going to use my bonus action to hide.
Matt: Okay. Roll a stealth check.
Laura: Pass Without a Trace still on me?
Matt: No, because you used Hunter's Mark.
Laura: Right. So that is 27.
Matt: Okay, good to know. End of your turn, Vorugal is going to use his legendary action to make a tail attack against Vax.
Liam: Is that melee? Can I use Uncanny Dodge?
Matt: You can if it hits you, yeah. So that is a 26?
Liam: Shite! Yeah, Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: Okay. So as you get up there and the arrows smack into the sides, from both Vex's attacks--
Liam: Wait! I want to use my last Luck to make him roll again. Which I can do.
Matt: Okay, you can. That is 27.
Liam: Wow. It's all right. Uncanny Dodge!
Taliesin: No, what are you going to do? Ancient white dragon. Someone's going to get knocked unconscious.
Matt: 23 points of bludgeoning damage as the tail (whack) slams you in the side, almost breaking one of the wings off, and you just manage to catch yourself in the air. So 28, and you can half that. All right. So that ends Vex's turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: All right.
Sam: Do that Divine Intervention thing again. That was really good.
Ashley: It's been a week, right? One week is one round, right? Okay. So what I'd like to do... Here's a question. Flame Strike, since it comes from the sky, would it work since he's up in the sky? Comes from above.
Matt: Ten-foot radius, 40-foot high cylinder. Centered around a point within range. So it's a 60-foot range. Doesn't say it has to be on the ground, per se.
Ashley: All right, let's give it a try.
Laura: Do it towards the front of Vorugal, so it doesn't hit Vax.
Liam: Hit him in the face.
Laura: Hit him in the face.
Matt: Ten-foot radius. Yeah. You can direct it where it's not going to hit Vax.
Liam: Thanks, Matt.
Matt: (laughs) All right, so what's your spell DC?
Ashley: 18.
Matt: 18. This is dex, right? It's a 21. He succeeds, so that's half damage. Go ahead and roll damage on that. It's 8d6 damage.
Laura: Oh, do you even have to roll the attack on that?
Matt: It explodes, and it's a saving throw to see if he manages to avoid some of the damage, which he did. What did you get?
Sam: It's ten-foot radius? Ten-foot diameter?
Matt: Ten-foot radius.
Sam: It doesn't hit the Hand, does it?
Matt: No. She's directing it in a way where it hits the front of him. It bursts right through his head and the edge of his wings.
Ashley: 19.
Travis: And two more. That's 8d6.
Laura: It's 8d6?
Matt: 8d6, yeah.
Ashley: Oh! (giggles) Do I add anything else?
Matt: Just those.
Ashley: What is it? 29.
Matt: 29. All right. So 14 points of damage with the halved. (explosion) The blast hits; the flames spin around. You see Vorugal starting to look a bit rough now. It's getting angry; wings are beating faster. You can see there's a feral desperation in Vorugal's eyes right now at all the things that are starting to come at him.
Ashley: I'm going to stay put. And for bonus action, I'm going to cast Healing Word on myself.
Matt: Okay. All right. At the end of your turn, Pike, using another legendary action to make another tail attack at Vax, trying to beat you away from behind at this point. That is a 25.
Liam: That hits.
Matt: That hits? Okay.
Liam: And I'm out of Uncanny Dodge, right?
Matt: Well, you can only make one reaction per round, yeah. That'll put you at 14 points of bludgeoning damage. (whack) Right at your side this time. Though you were able to dodge most of the first impact, this one smacks you to your side, and you spiral over for a second, catching yourself, and still keep afloat right there. All right, that brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay. I am going to cast Earthbind on him.
Matt: Earthbind. What's the range on Earthbind?
Marisha: 300 feet.
Matt: Yeah, that will do it. All right, what's the saving throw on it? Saving throw on that is a strength saving throw. All right, that is a failure. It's going to use one of its legendary resistances to make it. (groaning)
Taliesin: Good, you've burned it. Had to burn it.
Marisha: (frustrated noise)
Travis: She's speaking Parseltongue. (laughter)
Marisha: I am going to do a bonus action to cast Healing Word on myself. Heal myself real quick. Same thing, I want to scoot back a little bit, behind that tree, a bit.
Matt: Right behind here?
Marisha: Yeah, because I got whacked with that ice breath, and I don't want that to happen again. All right.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn? At the end of your turn, he's going to use his third and final legendary action to make another tail swipe at Vax. That is a 27.
Liam: You've hit me right now? Yeah, that hits.
Matt: Okay. This third tail strike right now is going to do 17 points of bludgeoning damage. (impacts) You've been battered in the air by the white dragon tail swinging behind. The focus is less on you as it's hitting you, and it's focusing on the whole battlefield down in front of it and the giant demon that is still lying on the ground.
Liam: Thanks, Heroes' Feast.
Matt: That brings us up to Percy.
Taliesin: I am going to heal, as my bonus action. That's not bad. That's 19 points. I'm a little better now. I'm at 108; I'm fine. Now, I'm going to take out Bad News. Fuck Animus for now. Take out Bad News and take two shots at this bastard with sharpshooter.
Laura: What's Yenk doing down there? Sleeping?
Matt: Yenk got knocked prone.
Taliesin: For fuck's sake!
Sam: Gun jam?
Taliesin: Yeah, gun jammed.
Matt: Fire again, this time (click, explosion). You see a burst of smoke come out, and part of the metal slightly bends. And you're like, "Shit!"
Sam: All your guns?
Taliesin: No, I have one more gun. But I don't have time. That burns an action.
Matt: Yeah. You could use your action surge, if you wanted to.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm using my action surge. Might as well.
Marisha: You try to unjam it?
Taliesin: No, I'm taking out my last pistol and I'm shooting. I'm just going to shoot. See if I can take two more shots. Technically not; it's two shots.
Matt: No, if you're pulling your next gun out. You're not trying to repair?
Taliesin: No, I'm not trying to repair.
Matt: You'd still have two more attacks. Yeah, because you have quick draw. You drop Bad News, grab another weapon. You still have two more attacks.
Taliesin: Oh, I'm taking two more shots, then. Sharpshooter shot with Retort. No, it's different. 16.
Matt: Nope. Fires off in the distant cloud.
Laura: It's that new damn gun. Its sight is all shit.
Taliesin: Ah! That one hits, on the other hand, I think. 22?
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: That's not much, but I'll take it. Nine points of normal damage plus two necrotic, so that's 11 points of damage. No, 21 points of damage. I'm so sorry.
Matt: Right, with the ten. Yeah. There you go. 21. First one misses. (click) You set it up. This time, takes a shot. (impact) It hits Vorugal from underneath a few feet off from where Vax is. You can see the wound beginning to bleed now. The more damage Vorugal gets, the more you can see the trickle of reddish-blue blood darkening against the white skin. Vorugal is looking fairly damaged.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn my action surge and take three more shots. Fuck it. See if I can lose the third gun. It's that night, apparently. No, I will not. That's 18?
Matt: Nope.
Taliesin: Fuck the sharpshooter shot. I'm just going for it. No sharpshooter. Thank god! That's 20?
Matt: 20 just hits.
Taliesin: Excellent. Good to know. Oh my god, that's bullshit. Ten points, three necrotic, so it's ten points of damage.
Matt: Your final shot?
Taliesin: My final shot. No, it didn't. This one doesn't do that. That's nice, but I miss. That's 16. That misses.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Thankfully, it doesn't burn that gun. No, that gun is better built. I'm rolling really poorly.
Matt: That ends your turn. That comes to Kima's turn. Kima is going to get up.
Travis: Come on, represent us melee-ers!
Laura: The three of you down on the ground.
Matt: I know. This is a rough fight for the melee.
Travis: I'm making a mean face, so far.
Marisha: You're mad-dogging the dragon?
Matt: Did maintain concentration. That's good. Kima's going to use a bonus action to heal you, Grog, for nine points. Nine health, using her Aura of Vitality.
Sam: Why wouldn't she heal me?
Matt: She's not close enough to you, unfortunately.
Sam: And she hates me.
Matt: Yeah, you may have pissed her off. She will move up into range with Yenk, but she can't actually attack. Too much ice, and her legs are not the longest, and she's having a hard time getting in the fray, but now she's locked in the battle.
Sam: Larkin's turn.
Laura: Good old Larkin!
Sam: Good old Larkin! Come on, Larkin. Bring him down!
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Where is Yenk?
Taliesin: Yenk ain't got nothing but us to hit right now. Let's not dwell on that.
Matt: It's Larkin's turn, technically.
Sam: (singing) You see him Larkin. You hating. (laughter)
Matt: You watch as the tiny dwarf form looks around at the chaos here, and with how things are going, "Shite!"
Laura: Don't you fucking ditch! Don't you ditch out!
Matt: His form vanishes as a green dragon appears. (shouting)
Liam: Cards on the table!
Matt: All right, uses the movement to fly up.
Marisha: Is she going to go for him?
Laura: She's going! She's doing it. She's so teeny compared to him!
Matt: She is a diseased dragon. And releases (blows air) cold blast of poison breath at this direction.
Marisha: Heroes' Feast, man.
Matt: As the billowing cloud of toxic fumes fills you, you instinctually freak out for a second before you realize that the magical protection in your lungs is preventing any of it from taking hold inside. That's cocked. It does make its save.
Sam: What kind of save is it?
Matt: It's a constitution.
Sam: Does the Hand need to make a save? Hand has an AC of 20 and my hit points.
Matt: I don't know if the poison's going to affect Bigby's Hand. It'is arcane. It's not going to affect that. That's for more of physically hitting it. However, Vorugal does end up taking 38 points of poison damage.
Sam: And then Vax goes, "Wait a second, Larkin was a dragon?!" (laughter)
Matt: Okay, at this point, that's going to end Raishan's turn. Yenk gets up, looking at the battlefield. He sees this giant, hulking goliath. Well, technically with Seeming, a large dragonborn with an axe. Lurches forward. Kima gets an attack of opportunity against Yenk.
Laura: Would he still look like a little dragonborn?
Matt: No, his physical form still shifts into a larger one. He looks smaller than his actual self, I guess, comparatively. We'll say for the fun element of it, he still looks like a bigger dragonborn, as Grog wants to look bigger on this one. Kima does hit Yenk. She's going to use Divine Smite, 4th-level spell against him as part of that. Ooh! That's going to be nice.
Taliesin: Remember to go into the stomach, if it goes. We've got a relic in its stomach.
Marisha: Don't eviscerate him. It's fine. It's not going anywhere.
Matt: 21 plus 4d8. 5d8 because it is a fiend.
Travis: Yeah! 5d8 because it is a fiend!
Matt: I don't want to rob her of any awesome damage here.
Travis: Yeah, come on. For the very few times Kima gets to get shake the dust off.
Matt: I know. Seriously!
Marisha: It does look like he's copping a feel.
Sam: Cupping?
Ashley: Little pinch.
Matt: She gets additional 1d8. It's 5d8 additional damage.
Sam: Trumping right now?
Marisha: No, this is our fantasy land, man.
Taliesin: No! Nixing it! This is my safe place.
Matt: 48 points of damage in one strike from Kima against Yenk.
Travis: Just from the attack of opportunity?
Matt: Just attack of opportunity, yeah. She poured a level four Divine Smite spell into it and (impacts) as she slams behind. Fiends are a paladin's thing. As Yenk's running away towards you, Grog, she says, "No, you don't!" (impacts) Slams up with her maul and strikes at the side of Yenk, causing him to tumble. He's still keeping his trajectory, though. He slams forward towards you. That's more than 15 feet. He's going for a gore attack against you, Grog, with the horns, like he did with Vorugal at the beginning of the battle.
Liam: He's going to take 15 percent of your hit points.
Matt: (chuckles) Yeah. That is a 22.
Travis: That'll hit.
Sam: Can I Cutting Words that?
Matt: I don't think you're in range.
Sam: Am I 60 feet?
Matt: 60 feet? Let me se. 60. Just out of range. You suffer 55 points of piercing damage from the horns, halved, plus an additional 38 points of piercing damage from the momentum from the gore.
Travis: And you said additional 30?
Matt: Additional 38.
Travis: Additional 38, so that's halved also. 19?
Matt: 19 on top of the half. Plus an additional seven points of cold damage as the horns strike into you, the horns almost solidify into ice spikes as it hits you, the ice breaking off.
Sam: Would have been great against a fucking dragon.
Laura: It did. It did the fire damage against the dragon.
Travis: 48 points of damage.
Matt: Okay. There you go. That ends Yenk's turn. It is now Vorugal's turn. Vorugal's pissed and hurt and angry and is going to move away.
Laura: You get an attack of opportunity!
Liam: Did he move away?
Matt: You do get one, yeah.
Liam: Yeah. No sneak attack because it's just me and Bigby, right?
Matt: Currently, yes. You don't get sneak attack here, no.
Liam: Right, because there's nobody here with me. 27 hits, so that is a three plus eight is 11, plus my psychic damage is 12.
Laura: How do you want to do this?
Liam: That'd be great, cut him in the butt.
Matt: Nice. That's some good luck with the ice breath this battle.
Travis: There are three giant monsters.
Marisha: Jesus, he's back for my shit. He's back for me and you, Pike.
Matt: I need Keyleth, Pike, and Scanlan to all make constitution saving throws.
Sam: Oh boy.
Marisha: Okay. 18.
Matt: 18.
Sam: 15.
Matt: Pike? All right, all three of you guys take 72 points of cold damage.
Laura: Okay. So that's unconscious.
Matt: So Pike is unconscious. Scanlan?
Sam: I'm okay.
Matt: You're okay? What's your hit points?
Sam: I healed myself last time just the amount of hit points I have right now.
Matt: (laughs) Keyleth, where you at?
Marisha: I'm at 36. Luckily I also healed myself up.
Liam: I'm a field medic. I'll get you out.
Matt: All right, and for the rest of Vorugal's turn...
Laura: What the fuck are you doing now, Matthew?
Marisha: This isn't good.
Laura: Are you unconscious, too?
Marisha: I'm up, but Pike isn't, correct?
Matt: Pike is currently unconscious, yeah. That ends Vorugal's turn. Grog, you're up.
Sam: You're not unconscious, Marisha?
Marisha: I'm not. Pike is. There is an exit door. We can literally toss Pike's ass in the door. How many are you down, Pike?
Travis: Can I go to a frenzied rage and unload on Yenk?
Matt: Yes, you can.
Travis: Okay. This will be reckless attack. Great weapon master. Because fuck it. Why not? 28 for the first one.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Natural 20. (shouting)
Ashley: Get him.
Travis: And 27 for the third.
Matt: Yeah, all three hit. The middle one gets critical. Don't forget your additional 1d4 damage with your axe because you're enlarged.
Marisha: And those were all great weapon master? That's fucking awesome!
Travis: The first one is 15 plus six points of necrotic damage. 21.
Matt: Including the 1d4?
Travis: 25.
Matt: 25. Does that includes the ten for great weapon master?
Travis: Nope.
Matt: So 35 points of damage on the first strike. All right. Second attack, which is the critical.
Laura: All dice are doubled? Is that how it works?
Matt: Yeah, all dice rolls double. Roll a d12, plus d6, plus d4.
Travis: That's an 11. It's a six. One.
Matt: 18 times two. (laughs) 36 plus ten. 46, plus 2d12 because of brutal critical.
Travis: One. Six. Seven. Seven extra points.
Matt: Plus 46. 53 points of damage with the second strike. Roll damage for the third one.
Liam: Maniac! Here it is! Get it!
Sam: Finally, he gets to attack! It's been six months since we've seen you actually attack anything.
Laura: I know, and he kills everything.
Liam: This is a rage spanking, right here.
Travis: 28 on the third one.
Matt: 28 on the third. Nice. You did over 100 damage on one round of melee combat.
Laura: Did you add your ten to the final one? It was 38 on the final.
Matt: (laughs) Jesus! So as you angrily get up, your large, draconic form, you rush forward, stepping right up to where Yenk is slamming into you. And after goring you in the chest, you embrace the anger and (impacts) bring the axe down, right into the inside of the shoulder. For the final attack, you put a foot up and drag it down across, cutting into it. You see a bunch of black-blue blood scatter across the snow, darkening it, the snow immediately melting with a (sizzling) hissing sound as it impacts with the ground around you. Yenk looks visibly hurt now. He's like, (pained grunts).
Laura: Can we see a little spire poking through its belly?
Matt: No, but you do see that the red, beady, coal-like flame eyes of Yenk are now burning with a vibrant red and are focused entirely on you.
Travis: I've got everything you want, big boy.
Matt: All right. That ends Grog's turn, I believe? Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Me? Oh, shit. Okay.
Matt: Actually, at the end of Grog's turn, Vorugal is going to use one of his legendary actions to attempt a tail attack, which has a reach of 20 feet. You are within 20 feet.
Sam: Against me?
Matt: Yep. That is cocked. 18 plus 14 is 32?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: You take (counting) 16 points of bludgeoning damage.
Sam: I'm going to use Cutting Words to reduce the damage. As I see the tail coming, I pick up my book of Shakespeare insults, and I will say: with thy brawls, thou hast disturbed our sport! I love thee not. Therefore, pursue me not.
Matt: As the tail swings towards you, roll a d12.
Sam: Six. And I live. (laughter)
Sam: It was 14 points of damage?
Matt: It was seven plus eight, so it would have been 16. It was eight plus eight. 16.
Sam: So reduced to ten. I'm okay. I have four points left.
Matt: Oh shit!
Sam: My turn?
Matt: Now it's your turn.
Sam: I look at Pike, and with my bonus action, I will heal her. Healing Word, second level. I will sing to her, (singing) you're trying to kill a white dragon, just like the ones we used to kill. May your days be merry and bright, and I hope we all survive this fight. (speaking) Okay, so 2d4, right?
Matt: 2d4 plus six.
Sam: 13 points.
Matt: Pike is up 13 points.
Sam: Shit. I've got to get out of here. Are you okay, Pike?
Ashley: I am at 13.
Sam: Are you going to be okay?
Ashley: Well, I'm going to run away. I'll be fine.
Marisha: Don't forget, you can go in the mansion. Pop in the mansion to heal.
Sam: I don't want to be a coward.
Laura: You can be a coward, Scanlan. It's okay.
Ashley: You're at four, Scanlan.
Sam: Shit. Well, I'll move away from it. Wait, I'm within its melee?
Matt: Yes, you are within range.
Sam: Jesus. That far away?
Matt: It has a 15-foot bite reach, a ten-foot claw reach, and a 20-foot tail reach.
Sam: Oh my god. Okay. I don't want to hit it. I don't want to go away. Fuck. I don't want to leave my Pikey. I'm not going to leave my Pikey. You never leave your wingman. No.
Laura: Four, Scanlan! Get somewhere safe. That way, you can keep helping her.
Marisha: If he takes you down and multi-attacks you, he could kill you. You healed her, right? She's conscious now.
Sam: I Dimension Door away.
Matt: To where?
Sam: Over in Yenkville, but not in Yenk range.
Matt: Over here?
Sam: Yeah, there you go.
Travis: In Yenk-adjacent?
Sam: Yeah. The suburbs of Yenkville.
Liam: Mighty Yenky has struck out.
Matt: All right, that brings us to Vax.
Liam: I know that from here to here, I'm 100 feet, so from the angle, am I 180 feet away to Pike?
Matt: Scanlan, by the way, I need you to make two concentration saving throws. Make two constitution saves.
Sam: With advantage?
Matt: Well, it's one of them with advantage, so roll twice.
Sam: I rolled twice. One was a 17 and one was a ten.
Matt: Yeah, even with the bonuses, Bigby's Hand is gone.
Taliesin: It would have been 19.
Matt: You took full damage from the last blast, so that would have been 72. Half of that would have been-- you had to roll a 36.
Liam: I want to save one action to grab Pike and yank her, so that means I have an action and a bonus action and movement to fly a total of 360 feet, halved, which is 180 feet to Pike, like a rocket. Grab her and roll into the door of the mansion.
Matt: Okay, so as you dart past and grab her--
Laura: Oh, does he get an attack of opportunity on you because you fly by?
Liam: I can arc.
Matt: You're then taking your action to grab her.
Liam: And roll us into the door.
Matt: Okay. You are leaving his combat range in doing so, so he's going to get his attack of opportunity on you, as part of his bite strike against you. That is 18 plus 14, so 32.
Liam: That hits. Do I have momentum, grabbing her?
Matt: If it drops you, you drop, and you drop with her.
Liam: I would imagine I did this. That's the intention. Up and over.
Matt: I understand that. The attack of a bite is going to change your trajectory of a dragon slashing at you. That is eight--
Liam: I'm out, dude. I've got five hit points.
Matt: Total would be eight plus eight, plus an additional 4d6 cold damage. Yeah. You grab Pike. As you begin to try to make the way, the bite snatches into you and lifts you up and throws you to the ground next to Pike, and you're both there on the ground.
Liam: But he bit me, right?
Matt: Yes, didn't bite Pike. You're both right outside of the door right now.
Sam: Pike's alive, and she's super strong.
Marisha: I'm just watching everybody barrel to my feet?
Matt: Kind of, yeah.
Laura: My boyfriend!
Matt: That ends Vax's turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Fuck. I'm going to try to get his attention and say, hey, stupid! And then I'm going to hit him because that's all I've got.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Laura: 22?
Matt: 22 does hit.
Laura: Do I have sneak attack on him, at all? Marisha is next to him.
Matt: No, he's within range for Marisha. Marisha is not threatening him, at the moment.
Laura: So no sneak attack, although I was hidden at the end of last turn.
Matt: You were. He did not see you.
Ashley: I'm threatening him.
Matt: (laughs) You're growling at him.
Laura: (counting) 28 on the first.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: That was damage. And then the second attack hits. It's a 31. (counting)
Matt: These are sharpshooter shots? It's the 1d10, plus bonus--
Laura: 1d8, plus eight, plus two for dragon, plus Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Right, there we go. Second one is how much damage?
Laura: 24, with two lighting damage. The first one had four lightning damage.
Matt: Okay. Does that end your turn?
Laura: (sighs) I want to help, I just don't know what I can do. That's all I can keep doing. I'm going to use my bonus action to hide.
Matt: Go for it. Roll a stealth check.
Laura: Like an asshole. 13.
Matt: Okay. End of your turn, Vorugal's going to use his second legendary action and is going to swing around with the tail over the top of the rock (impact) to slam down on the conscious Pike. You are prone. It has advantage on the attack roll against you. That is 28 to hit.
Ashley: Yeah, that hits.
Matt: 22 points of bludgeoning damage.
Ashley: I'm out.
Matt: Pike's now unconscious. Okay. Vorugal is now in this ravenous, primal rage, and is trying to finish things off successively that have been a problem. Now, with that, both of them are unconscious on the ground, Scanlan's out of the picture, Keyleth is still standing right by the side of the tree. Pike, you're up next, so I need you to go ahead and roll a death saving throw. Roll a d20.
Taliesin: This is where being at the end of everything is great.
Liam: 20.
Matt: A 20? Natural 20? You are stabilized. You gain one hit point. You're conscious.
Marisha: Holy shit. That changes everything!
Ashley: I'll take that hit point. Okay. I don't even know what that means.
Matt: You're conscious again. The tail slams you, and you go out, and then as the tail pulls away, (gasps) you catch yourself again. Your turn's over, but you're back. Pulling the tail back. That's the end of your turn.
Ashley: I didn't do anything.
Matt: Your turn was the death saving throw. You take that at the end of your turn. You woke up at the end of it. At the end of your turn, Vorugal uses the third and final legendary action for this round and with a 20-foot range, is going to swing the tail around, breaking through the tree, towards Keyleth. That is a 29 to hit.
Marisha: Yeah. Wait, is this melee? Does this come into play with the cloak? So you're at disadvantage.
Matt: That is a 24. Ancient dragon, sorry. That is 22 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: And that's it? I'm still alive! (roars) 22? Okay. I have 14 hit points.
Matt: All right. Now it's your turn, Keyleth.
Marisha: Now it's my turn.
Liam: Go earth elemental!
Marisha: I'm so torn, you guys. Do I heal you guys, or do I do damage and go earth elemental? It's a big decision. Scanlan?
Sam: It's all on you.
Marisha: Pike, you're at one?
Ashley: I'm at one.
Marisha: You're down.
Travis: I'm doing real good.
Marisha: What do I do, guys? Do I try and kill him, or do I heal?
Sam: You've got two nearly dead people right next to you who are feet away from a mansion.
Laura: Can you Grasping Vine them through the mansion door? It's open, right?
Matt: The vine wouldn't pull them through the door because you can only create it within a space where a natural plant would grow.
Marisha: It doesn't work like that, unfortunately.
Sam: But you can throw them, as a beasty elemental.
Matt: What are you going to do, Keyleth? Hurry up.
Marisha: Okay, fuck!
Sam: When I left the mansion, I locked it.
Travis: Did the key break off when you locked it?
Sam: No, it's a code lock. And I forgot the code!
Marisha: I'm going to cast Sunbeam. I'm going to beam in his face.
Sam: On Yenk, of course.
Marisha: It's okay. I've got this. Beam in his face.
Matt: Okay, so you cast Sunbeam. 60-foot line, five-foot wide. Right past that way. Okay.
Taliesin: Actually, does that hit both of them?
Marisha: 60 foot, right through them? Can I?
Matt: You might have to reposition to do so.
Marisha: What, scooch over one? Yeah, I'll scooch over one. Take a side step to line them up.
Matt: You get around the tree and past the rock. Yeah, you can hit both of them.
Marisha: They have to make a constitution save.
Matt: Vorugal, that is a 32. Yenk is a 27. They both make it.
Marisha: Well, they still take half damage. It's 6d8. Normally, they take full damage and they're blinded. It would have been way cooler if it would have worked. Ooh, that's a good roll. 26 points of radiant damage.
Matt: 26, then halved?
Marisha: Then halved. And then I'm going to go air elemental form.
Matt: Embracing the age-old tradition of the Air Ashari, Keyleth vanishes into a form of swirling wind, picking up the various bits of sleet and snow around you. You're almost like a slushy tornado.
Marisha: That's cool. Can I then take whatever movement I have left to try and drag--
Matt: You've already used your action to cast the spell, unfortunately.
Marisha: I can't use my movement to try and move someone?
Matt: You can use your movement to move. To pull somebody with you--
Marisha: That's an action?
Liam: It's all right. I'm fine.
Marisha: Then I'm going to use my movement to go airborne. I think I can go 60 feet? Let me see my fly speed. I have 90 feet.
Matt: 90 feet, so it would be 45 feet up, if you want to.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Kick him on the way up, and then he'll follow you.
Marisha: I give him a little air poof kick in the face, just for flavor.
Matt: Sure, why not?
Marisha: He's getting slushied in the face.
Matt: You rush up into the air. Vorugal does not get an attack of opportunity because he already used his reaction against you. So you (whoosh) without an issue.
Marisha: I hope that was right.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Percy.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to take my three shots.
Matt: Right above you, you see Raishan, wings beating, looking over and assessing the battlefield. You see Vorugal down there, bloody. You see Yenk, bloodied. Both engaged and distracted. You are currently not in either of their attentive sphere.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, so the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to use my bonus action to reload. I'm going to take my three shots at the white dragon with what I have left. I can do nothing. That's 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Taliesin: One necrotic. 12 points, with one necrotic. Shot number one. Next shot, same thing. Standard shot. That ran, but 22? Oh, sorry. It's not 22. I'm so tired. 17. That misses.
Matt: 17 misses, unfortunately. It hits the side, but the shot shatters across the dragonhide.
Ashley: Can I do War God's Blessing from where I'm at?
Matt: You know what? Hold on, Percy. You are conscious on the ground, barely paying attention, and all of a sudden, you hear the shot go off, and you see it about to blast against the hide. As a war cleric? I'll see if he has to be within range, or if it's one of the things that you can do if he attacks an enemy. The creature has to be within 30 feet of you, so no. He's way too far.
Taliesin: 24 for the next shot.
Matt: Third one does hit.
Taliesin: That's 12 points, with two points of necrotic. And I'm going to grab my rope, and I'm going to wave at the green dragon and start dropping down.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I have a rope.
Matt: I know you do. As you leap off the side, the clench in the stone (tink) comes loose, and you (impacts) tumble down the hill. I need you to make an acrobatics check.
Taliesin: Yeah! I can do that, even at negative one, I can do that. No, I can't. That was a one.
Matt: Natural one? You tumble Homer Simpson-style (repeated impacts) down the icy, rocky side, landing prone and suffering 18 points of bludgeoning damage on the way, landing prone on the ground. (impact, groan)
Taliesin: Fine!
Matt: Kima's turn. Kima's going to go and flank Yenk against Grog, giving her advantage on her first attack. Yeah, that's a 25 to hit, and her second attack is-- yeah, both hit. The first strike with her Holy Thunder Maul. 19 points of damage against the goristro, and she's going to burn another 3rd-level spell to do a holy smite at third level. All righty. 23 additional radiant damage on top of that, and then her second strike, she's going to burn her last 3rd-level spell to do another smite. That is 16. (counting) 31. Nice! Yeah, she did a lot of damage on that round. Slamming twice with the maul into the backside of Yenk. The first one slams into the shoulder, sending him to the ground with his fist. (grunts) He starts getting back up. She spins, using the inertia, and slams the maul into the side of his knee, which pops out and sends him down onto one knee now, and Yenk is basically half-prostrate in front of you, Grog, preparing for your next round of combat. (growls) Ending Kima's turn. It is now Raishan's turn.
Travis: She made him bend the knee.
Matt: Raishan does not get the breath back. However, is going to fly. Not used to the ice and can't quite get to full speed there, but can get close enough to attempt a Blight spell, at the very least. Vorugal fails. That's an 18. Yeah, fails the save.
Laura: Blight spell.
Marisha: A lot of damage. Come on.
Sam: He's going to resist it.
Taliesin: He might have burned it.
Matt: Yeah, burning a legendary resistance to make it happen, so it still makes the save, so it's still half, but it has one left. Okay, so it takes 18 points of necrotic damage. That's the end of that turn. It is now Yenk's turn. Yenk is going to do a full-on multiattack against you, Grog. That is a 24 to hit?
Travis: That'll hit.
Matt: Actually, it has advantage on you because you used reckless attack. That hits. Second one is 26 to hit.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And natural 20. All right.
Travis: I'm going to use my Stone's Endurance on the natural 20, and I'll do retaliation on one of those three hits.
Sam: Retaliation? That's new.
Matt: So the first fist is 29 points of piercing damage, so reduce that to 14, plus three points of fire damage as the fist suddenly bursts into flame as it slams into you. The secondary fist comes swinging around the other way, dealing 20 points of piercing damage, reduced to ten. Plus, you take eight points of lightning damage as suddenly an arc of energy streaks from the fist, slamming into the other side of your face, as you're taking it on each side. As you grin, he leaps up into the air, his strong, thick legs getting almost up above you, then kicks down with its hooves towards you like a very angry goat. This is the critical.
Laura: What does stone's endurance do?
Travis: d12 plus my constitution modifier.
Matt: Reduce the damage, yeah.
Taliesin: I've been hit by a goat in the face before. No, really. I got nailed by a goat.
Liam: At the zoo?
Taliesin: No, we were filming this ridiculous television series called Hell Town when I was a kid. It was awful.
Liam: You weren't trying to call Satan?
Taliesin: Not in the show, either.
Matt: 46 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to 23, plus ten points of ice damage as the hooves slam into you, leaving these frozen cracks where the blood should be emanating from. It seals the wound, almost.
Travis: 14, so I reduce that by 14.
Matt: Correct, reduce that by 14, and then make your retaliatory strike.
Travis: Great weapon master, reckless.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: 26?
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 22.
Laura: Plus ten.
Travis: 32.
Matt: 32 points of damage. How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Marisha: Yeah, Grog! Get me that staff!
Travis: When he jumped up and did the hoof kick down, I'm going to take it and then grab his hooves and wishbone him. (cheering)
Matt: As you grab him, you try to begin to pull, and he slams onto the ground, and you see him grab his arms back to try and pull himself back up. You kick him straight down again, and as you laugh, you push your foot into his crotch area as you pull Yenk in half with a sheer show of strength, smearing you with black, burning blood. It does burn you. You do suffer five points of fire damage as the blood that's spurting on you is burning into the skin. You tear him mostly in half. You can see the innards spilling into the snow and melting the snow within a five-foot radius of you as he (death rattle) is still surviving as you pull him apart. As you get closer, he reaches forward and grabs you and palms your head with his last bit of strength and begins to squeeze, and then the fingers eventually go lax before the hand (impact) onto the ground.
Travis: I look at both of the legs in my hands, and I look at Kima and go, which one's lucky?
Matt: She goes, "You are." (laughter)
Matt: That ends Yenk's turn.
Sam: Hey, Matt. Can I rewind?
Matt: No. Sorry. Yenk is done and torn open on the ground.
Marisha: Now we have to deal with the two dragons.
Laura: Well, one. Hopefully.
Taliesin: Yeah, we're going to let one leave. One's going to walk.
Matt: Vorugal is going to go ahead and (whoosh) come up and then--
Sam: Does Pike get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: Pike is not currently threatening him. Yeah, with Raishan blasting and seeing the dragon, Vorugal is going to turn this way, behind this space underneath the air elemental. "You betrayer!" (roars) And unleash a blast of frozen death down, hitting Raishan, as well as Vax and Pike. You're unconscious. Vax, you fail a death saving throw automatically.
Marisha: I thought Pike had one hit point.
Matt: RIght. If you make the save, you're still taking 30-something cold damage, so you're down. Automatic one fail on a death saving throw. Raishan does not make the save and takes 72 points of ice damage. Yeah, that's going to end Vorugal's turn, very angrily. All right, that brings us to Grog.
Travis: Yeah. Can I make a quick look down? Do I see any Spire of Conflux?
Matt: Make a quick investigation check.
Travis: In my rage? Natural one. I'm going to take off running toward Vorugal!
Matt: That's as far as you can get on your full movement.
Travis: I'll dash to get as far as I can.
Matt: Yeah, you can get about there. All right, that ends Grog's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I will bonus action take my potion of greater healing, right? That's the medium one?
Matt: Yeah. It's 4d4 plus four.
Sam: Okay. Terrible. Okay. Oh man, that's terrible.
Laura: What did you get?
Sam: 11 total.
Travis: From which potion?
Laura: Greater.
Sam: Okay. Well, shit. I'll move towards the dragon a bit.
Matt: Actually, Percy, make a concentration check, if you could. Make a constitution saving throw for Hex, yeah. Forgot about that.
Taliesin: Constitution saving? That would be a negative one? No, not a negative one. Add negative one. That would be 15.
Matt: 15. For you to take half damage? Yeah. Hex stays. All right. Scanlan?
Sam: There are no options. Not to save our friends! I'm way out of range.
Laura: Can you Dimension Door and then run with her?
Sam: I'm done. I've moved. I've acted. I can throw a ball. I'll throw a Fireball at Big Whitey. Centered way back so it doesn't hit any of my friends.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Sam: Three charges, I guess. What do I do? I just do it.
Matt: That's a natural 20 on his save, so he does make his save.
Sam: What I was going to say, I rewind. Because you didn't let me, he has disadvantage on his save this time, because you didn't let me retroactively go back and do it.
Matt: That's right. Natural one. 20, one.
Travis: Are you kidding me?
Marisha: Burn this motherfucker!
Travis: Every time we have one of these big fights--
Taliesin: There's no middle ground, is there? There's no middle ground at all.
Matt: To be fair, we do a lot of rolls in these big fights.
Travis: We do, but a straight 20 to one flip-flop only happens one time.
Sam: 29.
Marisha: That's pretty good. That's okay.
Matt: (explosion) The explosion hits. You see it sends ice shards shooting everywhere, leaving a big crater on the ground where the snow once was, and part of the stonework is barely scratched. The blast hits Vorugal, and Vorugal (grunts). Looks down at the two unconscious bodies on the ground. Looks up at Raishan. (huffs) Does that end your turn?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: End of your turn, it's going to use two actions to do a wing attack, beating its wings, hitting every creature within 15 feet. You're out of range, actually, Marisha. Grog, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: I think I have advantage on this because of rage. I do. 21.
Matt: 21? That unfortunately fails. You take 15 points of bludgeoning damage, and you're knocked prone. Also, Pike and Vax, you both fail a death saving throw from the bludgeoning winds of the ice dragon's wings beating downward.
Marisha: You guys are at two failed?
Laura: He's at two failed. Pike's at one.
Matt: Vorugal is going to head upward and begin flying this direction to turn tail and flee.
Sam: Do you get an attack because he's flying by you?
Marisha: Yeah, do I get an attack of opportunity here?
Sam: You are right over him.
Matt: You were right over him. As he gets up, I'll give you one. I don't have any more of these things here.
Liam: Blow everything you've got. Blow it. He's leaving. Unleash.
Marisha: Can I do a spell attack on him? It's just melee, right?
Matt: That's specifically a War Caster feat ability.
Marisha: Just one slam attack? Nope. Definitely not.
Taliesin: How fast? Is he still within visual range?
Matt: Currently, yeah. He just moved 40 feet with that one reaction.
Laura: We can still hit him with the ranged?
Matt: Possibly, yeah. That ends Scanlan's turn. Vax, I need you make a death saving throw. You have advantage.
Sam: Advantage?
Liam: 17.
Matt: So you're okay for now. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to hit him twice.
Marisha: Fucking burn this guy down!
Taliesin: Hit him with everything we've got.
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27 hits.
Laura: 25 on the first.
Matt: 25 damage? All right, and the second hit?
Laura: The second is also 27.
Matt: How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Marisha: We're going to live!
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: He's taking away, and you have a shot as it's arcing to the right of you, bleeding and limping in the air, but managing to pick up speed. The sleet and snow is strong and firing around you.
Laura: I want to see a cut on his stomach where Yenk left a hole, and I want to go straight into his heart.
Matt: The first arrow, you aim for it. It streaks off and hits another wound and gets jammed in. You pull back with the second arrow, and right as you see the snow beginning to blind, the one moment of clarity that hits you, (arrow firing) you release the arrow, piercing inside where the wound was, where one of Yenk's horns had gashed into the front of his chest. Vorugal (roars) and spins into a corkscrew, plummets and crashes into the side of the ravine, tumbles backward. Rocks come tumbling onto it. Vorugal hits the ground, smacked open. As it begins to get back up, (impacts) a bunch of rocks slam down, and one big shard of ice (impacts) slams into it. (panting) Still writhing in place as he's bleeding out.
Laura: And a tree grows out of his guts.
Matt: He's still currently holding on as he's jammed to the ground. You see the bluish-purple blood leaking out the side of the mouth. (panting) It can't move, and you can see the strength leaving Vorugal's body. Raishan swoops up next to Vorugal's corpse, leaning over. (cackles) "Tell your master on the other side, when you see him, that it was worth it." And Raishan sinks her teeth into his throat and tears it out. You see the spray of blood across Raishan's mouth and across the front of the ravine as Vorugal's body falls limp onto the ground. Spits the chunk of white dragon flesh onto the bottom of the ravine. The green dragon spins around, facing you all. "Well done." And backs into a sitting position. The wings furl down and fold into her side. "Take your spoils. It seems the war is nigh."
Taliesin: There will be a conversation.
Travis: I run as fast as I can over to Pike and Vax.
Taliesin: I run to the body of the big demonic thing and start going through it.
Matt: Okay, roll an investigation check.
Travis: I have two basic potions. I de-cork both of them and shove them in their gullets.
Matt: While that's happening, in the time it takes you guys to rush over, I need you both to make one more death saving throw.
Marisha: Oh, fuck. Come on, you guys.
Liam: A ten and a three! (laughter)
Taliesin: Not funny!
Ashley: 11.
Matt: Grog comes by, scoops you both up, and force-feeds you two basic healing potions. You both come to consciousness bruised, beaten, but apparently the current struggle is done, though you're now shivering, cold, soaked through. All of you, the elements have really sunk in once the adrenaline begins to wear off.
Laura: I fly down and cast Cure Wounds on Vax.
Travis: The two of you, inside the mansion. Now.
Matt: How much do your potions heal for them? It's 1d4 plus four. Sorry, 2d4 plus two.
Marisha: Yes, we do.
Taliesin: Vex, we have a dragon to disassemble.
Marisha: You go. I'm the one who's good at harvesting.
Travis: Six.
Matt: Plus two, eight. You heal eight, Vax.
Travis: Eight.
Laura: Get inside, now.
Matt: So seven to Pike.
Laura: I'm going to fly over and try to help Percy, now that they're safe.
Taliesin: I got a 16.
Matt: 16, you healed?
Taliesin: No, 16 to investigate.
Matt: As you start peering through, you can see there's an intestinal tract that's covered in thorns. It's a very weird, fucked-up alien creature, based on any sort of anatomic understanding. As you pull back, you can find there's one rigid portion of the inside of its intestinal tract that is swollen and looks to have this weird black, pulsing mass that surrounds it, like it's infected perpetually.
Taliesin: I pull out my sword and cut it out.
Matt: As you pull it back, you can see there are actual vines and ivy that have begun to grow inside its abdomen. You tear back and pull it, and as soon as you cut back the rest of the muscle that's currently tensing it in, the muscle almost instinctually pulls back, all the tension lost, and it almost fires this staff-like entity out. It shoots outward, and you have to dodge to the side immediately. You see that it's strangely pristine amongst all the crimson and gore. The blood of this creature does not even touch its surface. A twisted series of clumped-together thorny vines that form this curvature at the top. A singular yellowish-green gem in the center that hovers, locked in place by no noticeable force. It's there, jutting out of the body of the creature.
Marisha: I run to Percy.
Taliesin: I walk to you. We're walking to the dragon, anyway. I hand it to you. Your majesty.
Laura: I land next to them. Oh my god. Let's get inside. (offscreen clatter)
Marisha: That's right!
Taliesin: Karma's a bitch!
Liam: Vorugal ain't shit!
Matt: You all rush into the inside of the mansion?
Marisha: I don't, immediately.
Taliesin: We're finishing up the harvesting, and I go to talk to Raishan really quickly.
Laura: I stay out, and I search more around Yenk.
Taliesin: I'm sending you to work on the dragon.
Marisha: I'm coming with you to have that conversation.
Taliesin: Okay.
Marisha: I'm coming with you to have that conversation.
Sam: I will come, as well, to make sure Keyleth doesn't kill anyone.
Taliesin: Thank you. You've earned a conversation. We'll see you at home. You should get there quickly so there's no suspicion.
Sam: What's home?
Taliesin: We don't say it.
Matt: "Very well. I hope that perhaps this display of intent has quelled some of your worries. I'll see you at home, then." The form shifts down to that of Asum, closes the eyes for a second, and the form shifts as you see a sudden glyph appear beneath, and vanishes.
Taliesin: That was not a fight we were about to have.
Marisha: (sighs heavily) I silently go and start harvesting the white dragon.
Laura: Did you see how weak she was, compared to Vorugal?
Marisha: Let's just hope she stays that way. I start harvesting the white dragon as much as I can.
Liam: I'm going to find Larkin.
Sam: Send up a signal flare.
Laura: I take an empty potion bottle out and get some of Yenk's blood and put it in the cold.
Matt: Okay. As you're doing that, too, you're noticing that Yenk's body is rapidly decomposing. Its form is dissolving from the inside.
Marisha: I try as fast as I can-- wait, from who?
Taliesin: I'm going to run over and try and pull anything from Yenk.
Matt: I figure, for the fact that it's near midnight, we can begin next game working out the logistics of what you've managed to harvest with the rolls and such. We'll pick up from here next time. That was intense, guys. Well done.
Marisha: Oh my god!
Sam: Perfectly executed plan.
Taliesin: It really was. It actually was. How was this terrible?
Travis: That couldn't have gone any worse in the beginning. They hit each other maybe once, and then it was all on!
Matt: Actually, they did some pretty decent-- I think Yenk did close to 100 points of damage before you guys even engaged Vorugal.
Marisha: Can I see it?
Matt: (laughing) Can you see it?
Marisha: I really don't want to wait a week.
Matt: Sure. You can go ahead and have a look at your Spire of Conflux. You earned it.
Taliesin: Good work, girl.
Marisha: I didn't think I was going to get one, you guys!
Matt: Well, guys. Well done. You've now taken three of the five Chroma Conclave dragons, and with the death of Vorugal, pretty much are spearheading the final push to Thordak.
Liam: Is Thordak scared yet?
Matt: We'll find out. (chuckles) Well, guys. Thank you so much. Have a wonderful night. Thank you for those who stuck around for as late as this epic battle went. I hope you enjoyed it as much as we did.
Travis: Glad Pike was here for the fight! (cheering)
Marisha: Sarenrae!
Matt: Divine Intervention! Punched Vorugal into the dirt, man.
Laura: Thank you, Loot Crate.
Matt: Thank you, Loot Crate for being awesome sponsors. Thank you, Critters for being such amazing people and for being so supportive of the community and the show and the story and making your own stories. We're so happy and so proud to have you with us. Be sure to check out the many charities that we support: 826LA, as well as all of our individual charities. You can look up the Critter's Guide to Critmas and see the list of them there. Thank you so much. Have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? See you guys next week. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voi-- (gibberish) voice actors. It's been a long year, a lot of us voice actors-- Look, there's very high nerves in the studio right now 'cause tonight's going to be crazy. A bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. Tonight's going to be an intense episode but before we get to that, let's go ahead and get through our announcements for the evening. First and foremost, we have an amazing sponsor tonight. We have Backblaze. (cheering)
Laura: We love you, Yev!
Matt: Our final episode of the year. So Sam, you have a few words on that?
Sam: Yeah well, you know Backblaze is unlimited cloud backup for Macs and PCs for just $5 a month. You can go to backblaze.com/criticalrole for a full 15-day free trial, and I was going through my library. You know I have a whole library?
Matt: It's pretty impressive, actually.
Sam: Yeah and I dug up an old poetry book and buried inside there was a very curious poem by a young Dr. Seuss.
Travis: Oh really?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: That's worth a lot of money.
Sam: I know, I know. I thought I would read it for you all today.
Travis: Doesn't even look yellowed or anything.
Sam: He printed it on his laser printer.
Travis: Oh good. (laughter)
Sam: But it happens to concern Backblaze. The drive did not spin. It just clacked and it clicked. I rebooted and prayed and gave it a swift kick. But my data was gone, poof, every byte and bit. And I cried, "How I wish I had backed up my shit!" But who should appear in a car that he revved? A zingity zangity furry red Yev. The Yev jumped through my window, he pounced on my mouse and said, "You must have wished Backblaze to your house." But I looked at him cross, shouting, "What do you mean? My files are corrupt. This is one dead machine." He just laughed and said, "You daft binkle blot, Backblaze works whether you remember or not. Your pics of your kids and the food that they eated, all stored on the cloud. Nothing's ever deleted. Your docs, Firefox, alarm clocks, and your socks will all be restored from our miracle box." The Yev yelled, "Don't worry from midnight to morn, we save all your stuff, your taxes and porn. Your music and apps are safe on Backblaze." And with that, the Yev tipped his hat, "Good day." So remember, go visit backblaze.com and find the red Yev sing-singing his song. Let them take care of you heart and soul and tell him you're sent there by Critical Role.
Travis: Damn! Man, I don't know if that was Dr. Seuss or Lin-Manuel but that was great.
Liam: It was sweet and offensive. By the way, Sam, that's a very handsome hoodie you're wearing. I can't wait to open you up like an advent calendar later.
Sam: Oh! There's nothing offensive to Matt Mercer under this shirt. It's just another shirt progression to inspire us. This one goes four deep. (yelling)
Laura: It looks like your tiny little weenus is--
Travis: You're shirt-cocking your own mouth!
Matt: I am so happy!
Sam: It's to inspire us in our final fights. It might be the last time I'm ever on this show, so I wanted it to be five of me.
Matt: For the power of five Sams. Thank you, Sam, and thank you, Backblaze, for being our awesome sponsor for our episode tonight. You guys are awesome. We have a great video for you to watch from them at the break.
Laura: Wait. Can I say, Yev, about the stuff? All the little pictures you see in the different videos, he's giving some of those away tonight? Giving some away! If you sign up for Backblaze or if you have signed up for Backblaze already, you're entered into the competition. And then you can win them, and we've signed them, and it's wonderful. Did I say it right?
Sam: Yep, you did great.
Laura: Okay. Cool.
Matt: It was pretty bad. As a quick addendum, while they're not officially sponsoring the show tonight, our friends at Loot Crate, who sponsored us for a large portion of the year as well, wanted us to give you a heads up about their current Halo Legendary crate. It's filled with a bunch of exclusive Halo figures, collectibles and in-game items. If you're a Halo fan, this has some exclusive stuff that comes through Loot Crate in that specific crate. You can go to lootcrate.com/LDNHalo to check it out. You can use the code "LDNHalo," all one word, for a discount to that. The cutoff for orders is tonight, so if you plan to do that, you might want to check it out in the next couple of hours. Now's your chance to do it, go. Do it, it's awesome. Right. That's our sponsorship. Couple of other things to mention. We will be returning January 5th, will be our returning episode in 2017. The new year. We'll pick up wherever tonight leaves off.
Liam: Those characters are going to be awesome.
Matt: You have so much faith in yourselves! It's very possible. No. So yeah, we'll be back January 5th. We wish you guys a very very merry holiday, in all your celebrations, and your families, and your New Year's, and all that crazy stuff. We'll have more of that at the end of the episode, but we'll see you back then. We have a merch shout-out, actually. Laura, if you want to talk about what we have up on the store for them?
Laura: That's a good question. I have no idea what's in the store tonight. I have no sheet in front of me, and I have no idea what's there. I think there's some hats left, I know there are some hats--
Travis: The dice got restocked.
Laura: No, they did not. No, the dice did not get restocked, the dice are coming back in, like, January, so there's a lot more coming in January, so that's good. I have no idea what else is in the store though. A hat? There's a hat.
Matt: There you go.
Laura: Shit, I got nothing.
Sam: You are the best.
Laura: You guys, I'm focused on spells, and I'm focused on arrows, and hit points and-- (gasps) And the patches! And our mugs!
Matt: If you go to the Geek and Sundry store under Critical Role, you'll see merch! That's our announcement for the evening!
Laura: There's still patches left, you guys! That's pretty cool! Yeah, the hats are still there. There's only a few left, though! There's only a few hats left, I know that for sure.
Marisha: Only a few hats left.
Marisha: And they're gone.
Taliesin: And they're gone.
Laura: Sorry. I'm stressed!
Marisha: Yes, tomorrow we have a last-minute special edition Signal Boost episode that is a stocking stuffer edition. Yeah, coming out tomorrow, and it's got, like, coupons in it, so you should watch it. And also: everyone likes coupons!
Taliesin: That's true.
Marisha: End of statement. Also, there was a playlist that we put out that is a collection of all of the artists that we have boosted over the year.
Taliesin: Except one.
Marisha: Except for one because they're not on Spotify and it's not my fault. But yeah, go check it out and I also wrote a little thing giving some insight into the background of the show.
Matt: It's a great write-up, I recommend you guys check it out. Even if you haven't watched Signal Boost, it's a great write-up. I recommend it. Thank you, Marisha.
Marisha: You're welcome. I'll be here all week. Yeah, not really, it's Christmas time.
Matt: This is a pretty cool announcement. After a back and forth for the past year, we just got approval from Blizzard Entertainment to incorporate their music from their game projects into our Critical Role soundtrack.
Sam: For the final fight?
Matt: I've incorporated a few tracks for tonight's battle, as well as a couple of community-made tracks that have been submitted over time, so we'll have some fresh tracks for the evening. But, Blizzard, thank you so much, thank you to Woody Day, and a bunch of the guys who have helped out over there to make this happen. We're excited to include those amazing soundtracks into our atmospheric background tracks in future episodes.
Liam: I was not prepared. Oh! I'm fired, aren't I?
Matt: Yeah, you are. Anything else anyone wants to mention real fast?
Brian: (distantly) Critmas!
Matt: Oh yes. (laughing) Thank you, disembodied voice of Brian Wayne Foster, ghost of Christmas Tuesday. Next Tuesday we have a special Critmas episode of Talks Machina. A bunch of us are opening your awesome Critmas presents, and we'll be showing the videos the community submitted about what Critical Role means to them, to you, and to us! So check it out next Tuesday in the usual spot. I think that's it. All right, cool! Then let us go ahead and bring the tension up as you guys wander into the flaming core of Emon to show down with Thordak, the Cinder King, on tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. So! Last we left off, Vox Machina, after spending the better part of a number of months traversing the Prime Material Plane and planes beyond in search of ancient relics known as the Vestiges of Divergence, they finally increased their abilities, they've made allies, and they've begun their trek to tear down the collection of evil chromatic dragons known as the Chroma Conclave that destroyed your city of Emon and took over most of the continent of Tal'Dorei and beyond. You've defeated and you've slain three members of the Conclave, allied with a fourth, and you've made your way, along with an army combined with the powers of Fort Daxio and Syngorn, to the central city of Emon. Utilizing aid from the Ashari people to cover the skies as the armies began to assault the outer walls, you, along with Zahra, Kashaw, Jarett, Gilmore, the whole party, everyone's there, Kima--
Travis: Britney Spears, NSYNC--
Sam: My other brother.
Matt: Drake's staying back with the army to help them with the assault. You guys made your way underneath through the sewer system, made a brief alliance with some wayward Clasp who led you to the center of town where the volcanic essence of Thordak's mutated draconic form has been pulling volcanic activity up beneath the city. You climbed out on top and there, at the walled gates to the central Cloudtop District, which Thordak now calls his home and his lair, you saw two fire giants guarding the entrance. Kashaw and Zahra, in a heroic display, bound the giants to place and decided to take care of them while you rushed into the fray, bursting through the door due to the strength of your Titanstone Gauntlets. You rushed into the cloud, smoke, and ember-filled Cloudtop District ruins, jumping from ruined building to wreck of rubble and stone. The air itself is dense and black with dark fume and it's hard to see anything. You all carefully, gingerly, stealthily made your way into the alcove of one ruined building, where across the way, you see a giant raised central cavern, a hole, a burrow, if you will, that is close to 40 feet across. Apparently, your approach was somewhat sensed by the red dragon himself, as you watch Thordak emerge from this burrow and climb out saying to itself, "It appears we have visitors." (sound of liquid pouring)
Sam: I'm really nervous. (laughter)
Matt: So, as Ashley unfortunately can not be with us, Pike's control and duty will be taken care of by the twins for the evening. You guys will be dual cleric-ing tonight.
Laura: We're Jaegering.
Matt: Indeed. At this point in time, you guys are all keeping as still and as quiet as you can while figuring out your circumstances. You can hear the low growling voice of Thordak as he begins to scan the vicinity. (growling)
Marisha: Potions! Potions!
Sam: Oh, good idea, good idea.
Laura: I take fire resistance.
Matt: Fire resistance? Fire resistance, fire resistance--
Liam: Am I able to make a jello shot of invulnerability and haste at the same time?
Laura: But you know they only last for one minute each. Just wait for like a second. Just wait. Fire resistance lasts for a while, I passed them out, so if you've got them, take them.
Matt: Okay, so we have Scanlan, Keyleth, Vex, Grog, all with fire resistance? And Percy? All right. That's pretty much everyone but you, I believe, right?
Laura: Oh, but he's got the armor--
Matt: So yeah, the entire party, thank god, is set to resist fire. That may help your chances here. As you all guys quietly begin to drink and figure out your circumstances--
Travis: Why are you laughing? Why'd you laugh?
Matt: Because I was rolling Thordak's perception check to see if he noticed any of your presences as you were drinking the potions. I got a natural one.
Laura: Wow, just drinking a potion would make him notice us?
Liam: "I guess I'll go back to sleep now."
Matt: He's still scanning, and he's still like, "We can sense you here. Where are you?" And you hear (heavy footsteps).
Sam: Should I cause a distraction?
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: Okay. What are the components of that spell? Let's take a look here.
Laura: It can't be vocal because it's Pass Without a Trace-- oh no, it's verbal.
Matt: Yep!
Laura: No, I don't do that! I don't know what those things mean!
Travis: You better get your shit in gear.
Laura: It's a whisper. Tell me it's a one! Tell me it's a one!
Matt: That was not a one.
Travis: I mean, let's be clear, what are we really going to hide from? Look where his fucking head is. He's like the sun. We ain't hiding from that shit.
Laura: He may have heard us, but now we've got plus ten stealth.
Matt: So, as you guys are all quietly huddled over in this broken space there, Vex'ahlia begins to do her incantation beneath her breath and as you feel the shadows cling to you, you hear in the distance, "Ah. There you are."
Travis: I just want to pee on myself and run.
Matt: He has currently moved out to this area, and began to asses the scenery. I need all of you to roll initiative. (screaming)
Laura: Already!? Take your potions!
Liam: I can't, we're into initiative, right? It's too late for potions.
Matt: You took your fire resistance potions. That's all you had time to do.
Marisha: That's not too bad, not too bad.
Taliesin: That will do.
Laura: Who's rolling for Pike?
Liam: I'll do it. I got 11, plus what?
Laura: I don't think she has anything, so--
Matt: Pike has no bonus.
Travis: 14. Oh wait, you ask them, in order.
Laura: I'm freaking out, shit, I'm sorry, I thought I was helping.
Matt: Vex, what did you get?
Laura: 13.
Matt: 13 for you? All right.
Liam: 12, and Pike got 11.
Taliesin: Pretty good for Pike.
Laura: That is pretty good for Pike.
Marisha: That is pretty good for Pike.
Matt: Keyleth?
Marisha: 17.
Laura: Good.
Marisha: Yeah, it's pretty good for Keyleth. Oh god.
Matt: Percy?
Taliesin: 25. Fast, fast.
Sam: Eight. I'll be bringing up the rear. That's how I like it anyway.
Liam: While we're cowering here, Pike says, "Guys, I think I could really help you out if you wait a second. Okay?"
Laura: Oh, Pike didn't even get a chance to--
Travis: Were we supposed to have a Heroes' Feast?
Laura: We did, we did have a Heroes' Feast.
Travis: I'm so glad, I was totally here last week.
Laura: We're all immune to fear and poison still, we all have advantage on wisdom.
Matt: You do indeed.
Taliesin: And extra hit points.
Matt: All righty. So! With that, beginning of the round, at the very top: Percival. You glance around the corner and you see sifting through the large columns of smoke that are billowing off each one of these destroyed, burning buildings, you see the gargantuan form of Thordak (heavy footsteps) and looks right over. You see all of a sudden as his eyes pass in your direction, almost like a cat caught in a light beam, as his eyes flare up with bright white light as it sees your presence.
Taliesin: Okay.
Travis: What do you see?
Taliesin: It's coming. Is there room, can I get even vaguely a shot in that room?
Matt: From here, at his size, you could get a shot if you moved a little bit.
Taliesin: I'll move a little bit.
Matt: Jump between these folks there.
Taliesin: I have Spider Climb on right now, so actually I'll climb up on the wall and then climb back down when I'm done.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to-- Ignore that, I've been drinking. First of all, I'm going to cast Hex on him. Because that's really going to make a difference.
Travis: No, it is! Stay positive!
Taliesin: What kind of checks should I-- I'm going to down him for--
Marisha: I feel like he's real good at everything.
Laura: Like, wisdom, or something.
Taliesin: I'm going to give him a disadvantage on dexterity checks. Because fuck it. All right, I'm going to take out Bad News, and I'm going to take two shots, which is my way, with Hex and Bad News, and hopefully everything's going to go just fine. I'm going to use Sharpshooter, and I'm going to use Deadeye on the first one. I'm going to drop a point on Deadeye. So, Deadeye roll-- That should have counted, damn it, I shouldn't have picked it up. Oh, thank god. That's-- sorry, I'm blanking. 26 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: That's a good sign.
Taliesin: Yeah, let's not start saying that now. And that's-- wow, I'm nervous!
Sam: Wow!
Taliesin: That's actually really good. First shot is 21, 37 points of damage plus five points of necrotic damage.
Matt: In addition to 37? That's nice.
Taliesin: That's really nice. I rolled really high, and I have Sharpshooter running.
Matt: Good opening shot.
Taliesin: Next one, I'm going to shoot Sharpshooter, but no Deadshot. Is an 18 to hit?
Matt: Nope.
Taliesin: Okay, second one misses. I'm going to crawl back and hide again and get a little bit of-- yeah, I got up on top, took two shots, and crawled back down to hide.
Matt: All right, as you climb up to the top, you slam Bad News over the top of the stonework, and as soon as the barrel catches a little bit of the light through the smoke, you watch as Thordak's face whips over in your direction. (gunshot) The first shot smashes across the crest on the front of the dragon's face. You see sparks fly, and bits of flame, red crystal get shattered in the distance. The head spins back towards you, and immediately you start shaking, and you fire the second shot and it ricochets off of its angry, thick hide. You immediately duck back behind the wall.
Taliesin: I'm regretting so many things right now! Not you! Oh god! I shouldn't avoid my family. It leads to dragons.
Matt: In all of your focus, and all of your attention into the arrival, and the crawl into this, and Thordak, none of you noticed that Larkin is not with you.
Laura: No surprise there.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Laura: Piece of shit.
Marisha: Piece of shit. Okay, I don't know what to do here? What are we trying to do? Do we have a plan? Should I try and burn a big spell?
Sam: Do whatever you do! We've been practicing for this our whole lives.
Marisha: Okay, before I do something crazy, based off of Percy saying that, I turn to Vex and I go, by the way, I've been meaning to ask you about that, if he ever followed through, so stay alive, we can talk later! Okay! And I pop over the corner and I'm going to cast Tsunami?
Sam: I've never heard you say those words.
Liam: No, it's not.
Matt: So you're casting Tsunami.
Liam: She did this once and wrecked our enemies.
Marisha: That was Tidal Wave, this is like a big daddy version of that.
Liam: It's worse than that?
Marisha: This is my 8th-level spell. So I create a wall 300 feet high, 300 feet long, and 50 feet thick of water.
Matt: You watch as the smoke is instantly replaced with steam in the vicinity, completely filling the area with fog, as this giant wall of water is conjured out of the broken, cracked, dry earth and begins curling over towards Thordak's front side. All right, so, strength saving throw-- Wait, any Huge or smaller creature.
Laura: Is he bigger than Huge?
Matt: He is bigger than Huge.
Laura: So it doesn't have any effect on him? Is he bigger than 300 feet?
Marisha: Yeah, he's not bigger than 300 feet, is he?
Matt: It's big, but the sheer mass size-- You watch as the tidal wave smashes into Thordak and splits and falls around him, no effect. His form is too big--
Marisha: None at all?
Matt: The water crashes against him, he's too big for it to actually have an impact on him.
Liam: Are there any fires left burning in the vicinity?
Matt: Actually, this fire is out now, this fire goes out, and water spills down into the tunnel and you watch a bunch of steam (whoosh) rise out of it.
Marisha: Well, it's also a six-round spell, and he's supposed to get stuck in it. Nothing? No.
Matt: He's too big.
Laura: He doesn't even get damaged at all, though?
Travis: Does he question his choices in life?
Marisha: Because I'm questioning mine.
Matt: It says any Huge or smaller creature inside the wall has to make a saving throw or take damage, creature caught in the wall can move, but yeah, it only seems to have an effect on--
Sam: Well, that was a valiant effort.
Matt: I was with you. But, hey, 8th-level spell!
Sam: You got tons of 8th-level spells, you'll be fine.
Marisha: "But, hey, 8th-level spell?" Did you just say that to me?
Matt: Sorry! I'm sorry! I didn't mean to.
Marisha: Holy fuck.
Sam: No problem.
Taliesin: I would get back behind the wall if I were you.
Matt: So Keyleth, do you want to use the rest of your movement?
Sam: Don't get back behind the fucking wall, don't get back behind the wall, we're all bunched up. Go somewhere else.
Travis: Scatter.
Laura: I know how painful this is right now, Keyleth, but it looked really cool. Just run.
Liam: Our pores are cleared-- the steam--
Taliesin: The wall will at least take some damage at this point, most things he's going to do are going to be a giant area effect anyway that you're not going to be able to outrun, you might as well have cover--
Matt: Oh, wait, hold on--
Sam: Judges weighing in.
Matt: Sorry, I scrolled past that part there-- Each creature has to make a saving throw, so it does affect him the first round. It does.
Marisha: Just on the first round, though?
Laura: Still, that's something!
Matt: Each turn after that-- so, yeah, basically as it gets smaller it affects less and less creatures. Sorry, I scrolled past that one.
Marisha: So it just doesn't keep him restrained?
Matt: That is a 21.
Sam: What's your spell DC?
Marisha: 20.
Matt: So it takes half-- so roll 6d10 and it takes half damage.
Sam: Oh, that's something!
Laura: That's better than zero!
Marisha: It's better than-- yay, 8th-level spell, to quote Matt Mercer.
Taliesin: That will be our next t-shirt, "Yay, 8th-level spell."
Matt: It's fine. keep digging. This is my battle against you guys.
Marisha: I'm not digging!
Laura: No, no, not at all! We're very happy with that!
Marisha: 26, 35, halved.
Matt: Okay, half of the 35--
Marisha: But it's not going to do anything to him on subsequent rounds?
Sam: 17 points, that's something!
Laura: Is there water all over the ground, though?
Matt: It says here that at the start of each of your turns after the wall appears, the wall along with any creatures in it move 50 feet away from you. So it will move him 50 feet back, unless he gets out of it.
Marisha: Yeah, it says any Huge or smaller creatures must make a strength saving throw in order to move.
Matt: Correct. He can move through it fine, he's too big now, he doesn't take the additional damage in following rounds.
Marisha: So he gets to move out of it no problem? Is that essentially the deal?
Taliesin: But he is picked up for 50 feet, though.
Marisha: Yeah, but is he moved back?
Matt: It still has to try and make an athletics check against your spell DC to move at all, but it doesn't take any additional damage.
Marisha: All right, I'll take that.
Matt: It's her first time using this spell, guys, so be patient, we're figuring this out as we go.
Taliesin: I would say also just because Pike was going to do a thing, so come back for Pike's thing that she was going to do.
Marisha: Pike's going to do a thing?
Liam: So is he.
Laura: I feel like, run, Marisha, 'cause the thing that Pike's going to do is--
Marisha: Is that an AOE thing that she's going to do?
Laura: Yeah, but just go.
Marisha: All right, here's what I'm going to do, I'm going to move in this area over here. Kind of poke into this building?
Matt: That's as far as you can get with your full movement.
Marisha: No, no, I don't want to go that way, I want to go behind-- sorry, this isn't very--
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: Yes, that way. Thank you.
Matt: That right there is as far as you can get with your full movement.
Marisha: Yeah, sure. Yeah.
Sam: It's going to be great.
Marisha: It's going to be so great, it's going to be great.
Matt: All right, that ends Keyleth's turn. Jarett is going to go ahead and rush around here. Pulling out his heavy crossbow, he's going to go ahead, as he runs past, releasing a bolt towards Thordak-- two bolts, actually, that is a-- nope, that misses. That also misses. Well, they both hit, but they both splinter across his hide. All right, Jarett's going to make the full move behind this wall and begin loading another bolt. "It's all right, we got this!"
Sam: He's dead.
Matt: It is now Gilmore's turn.
Sam: Shaun Gilmore!
Laura: I'm sorry. I don't know how I just stole two pencils.
Liam: I do.
Matt: Gilmore is going to-- As he watches Jarett rush off and Keyleth rush back around the wall, watching the wall of water crash past the dragon, goes, "All right. It's been a while since I've had to do this." And he points his finger up towards the dragon's head, and you watch as this green spark shoots this single green beam in the direction of the dragon's face.
Travis: Please hit his face. Please hit his face. Please hit his face.
Laura: Hit him, Gilmore!
Matt: Let's see if it makes its dexterity saving throw. That is-- yeah, he succeeds. Against the spell DC, yeah, he succeeds with a 19. He goes and fires and you watch as Thordak sees the beam glimmer out of the fingers and he ducks down and it fires past, dodging between the side of the head and the beam goes casting out that way, no effect.
Travis: Shit hammer.
Laura: What level spell was that, Gilmore?
Matt: "6th."
Marisha: I look at him and I go, yeah, 8th, I feel you, man.
Matt: "It's okay, we've got this."
Marisha: Fucking sucks, bro, all right, let's do this.
Matt: And he's going to go ahead and--
Liam: I don't understand all this arcane terminology.
Matt: "Scatter, right?" He pushes past and goes running this way. All right, that's going to end his turn. Grog!
Travis: Yeah, I see Gilmore take off running, and being there's a giant T-Rex on the map, I'm going to go, "Must go faster, must go faster--" And I would like to run as fast as balls this way towards this cover as far as I can for 50 feet.
Matt: Okay. You get right about there, as Thordak has the same initiative as you.
Travis: Oh!
Matt: Thordak, who has dodged the beam, and is seeing the ants begin to scatter in front, goes, "Moving targets--"
Travis: Glad I joined Gilmore!
Matt: "We love moving targets." And he's going to step forward--
Laura: No! Don't move!
Matt: --and is going to rear back and (inhales) (whoosh) and unleash Flame Breath.
Sam: Oh, Kiki, you're okay!
Laura: You made it!
Matt: I need Vex, Percy, Vax, Pike, Scanlan, Trinket, Grog, and Gilmore to all make dexterity saving throws. Hold on to that number.
Taliesin: Does partial cover help at all?
Matt: No. The flame is like napalm.
Taliesin: I'm rerolling that.
Matt: Kima fails. Gilmore rolls a one! Are you serious?
Laura: Did you roll for Pike?
Taliesin: That's a little better.
Sam: Can I Cutting Words to do anything?
Travis: The Ancient Dragon?
Matt: Cutting Words actually can reduce the damage.
Sam: Just the damage, not his attack?
Travis: We'll take the damage reduction.
Sam: Will it reduce the damage for everybody?
Matt: I'm double-checking that. I'm pretty sure it does.
Sam: If so, I will do that.
Taliesin: I just had to use a Resolve.
Laura: What did you roll?
Taliesin: A one. So I had to burn a Resolve, which I have done.
Matt: Yeah, so you can reduce the damage by a certain amount for everybody.
Sam: It won't be much, but I'll do it.
Taliesin: It'll help.
Laura: And then he's got disadvantage on something next, doesn't he? After you use Cutting Words?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: All right, so--
Sam: So as he goes, I will yell at him, oi! What sexual position makes the ugliest children? I don't know, ask your mama! (laughter)
Matt: Wow. That's a thing.
Liam: I like to think of all of Vox Machina nervously laughing.
Matt: She has advantage on her saving throw-- Kima does make her saving throw! All right, so! Go ahead and roll your d12 and it will reduce the damage.
Sam: Guys, you can reduce that damage by five.
Laura: Sweet.
Sam: So instead of 150, it's 145.
Matt: No, instead of 99 points of fire damage, it is 94.
Sam: 94!
Matt: 94 points of fire damage.
Laura: 9d4?
Matt: It was 99, now it's 94.
Taliesin: Does the five get subtracted before we halve it, or after?
Matt: It reduces the damage of the attack.
Laura: And then if we have fire resistance, then it-- But what if we rolled 28, did we make our save?
Matt: Grog, what was your--?
Travis: 17.
Matt: Nope.
Laura: 28?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24--
Sam: Oh shit. He has to look?
Matt: You just make it.
Taliesin: 24 is a "just made it?"
Liam: So I take zero, because I'm using Evasion.
Matt: Yes you do.
Marisha: I didn't have to roll.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18, nope.
Sam: 21.
Matt: 21, nope.
Laura: And Trinket and Pike both fail as well.
Matt: Okay. Thankfully, that's half damage. So that would be, at half of 94, 37-- I'm sorry, no, 47. 47 points of fire damage to Grog, to Percy, to Scanlan--
Laura: Pike and Trinket.
Matt: Well, Trinket does not take half.
Sam: Wait, I thought you said I didn't save.
Laura: Takes the full 90-- Trinket is in my necklace. Again, already.
Matt: Trinket goes right into your necklace.
Sam: Wait, wait, so I get 94 or 47?
Matt: You didn't succeed, so you would take 94, but because you have fire resistance, you take 47.
Sam: Oh, okay! That's not bad!
Matt: You take half of 47, because you have fire resistance and you made the save.
Laura: So 23. 24.
Travis: Tell me he has only one of those per day.
Matt: Nope, that regenerates.
Laura: 23 or 24?
Matt: It would be 23.
Sam: And Matthew DM, do our temporary hit points go away first? Or last?
Taliesin: They're technically not temporary, it's actually your max increases, so they can come back.
Matt: Correct, they can come back, yeah.
Taliesin: You can heal into them.
Travis: Did somebody get temporary hit points?
Sam: We all did. 17, from our feast.
Laura: Oh, that's right, Pike has-- I need to--
Taliesin: You're 17 up. You can go 17 up even if you lose them.
Travis: Right, well I'm going to add them now.
Taliesin: Your max is now much higher.
Travis: Oh, thank you, that's much better.
Matt: Okay. Kima's doing okay, but Gilmore is looking rough. As the flames burn through, hyper white, red, orange, blazing fire, you haven't felt heat like this before. You instinctively close your eyes, but it doesn't seem to help. As the flames pass by you, Keyleth, you can even feel the impact from here, singeing your eyebrows, and you have to cover your face for fear of being disfigured by the proximity. As the fire eventually burns away, Gilmore is like stumbling right now, burned all around. The rest of the party is already smoking, bits of your outfits and edges of clothing are now actually curling up and burning. That was bad. So that ends Thordak's go. Grog?
Travis: Well, being that my run was so rudely interrupted by shit-chest over there, can I change course seeing that he's going to barf fire at all of us and run straight at him in a rage?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Travis: Yeah, can we go ahead and see how we do here, and I will go Reckless Attack, Great Weapon Master.
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Doesn't that mean he gets advantage on his attacks against you?
Travis: Yeah, I mean, let's buy the ticket and take the train, right? Who fucking knows. One! Better. 19.
Matt: 19 misses.
Travis: Shit. Roll better. That's better.
Laura: He's so big, though!
Matt: But his armor is hard.
Travis: That is a 25.
Matt: 25 hits. So the second attack hits. Are you doing--?
Travis: Reckless and Great Weapon.
Matt: Right, but I mean are you doing your frenzy for the third attack? Or are you going regular?
Travis: Yeah, I'm going frenzied!
Matt: All right.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21 misses. But you did get a hit in.
Travis: I do.
Laura: Oh my god. What was the second attack?
Travis: 25. So somewhere between 21 and 25. Which one is the d12? This one. 11. Two points of necrotic and 36 total.
Matt: 36, nice! As the flames subside from the dragon breath, the flames part and you see, rushing out, flames curling off the edges of the fur, this angry raging goliath (yells) runs and takes one swing. It skids across the scales of the front of Thordak's chest, gleaning past the giant scar in the center. No damage. Thordak (laughs). You look up into the beaming star-like eyes and angrily (yells). This time, the axe sinks in and the laughter stops. You see the slight twinge of pain in the right eye of the dragon as you pull back for a third one, brings its claw up and swings down to try and crush you. As you swing for your attack, you instinctually realize it's probably best to let this go and you duck out of the way in time as the claw (slam) into the ground in front of you.
Travis: Yeah! Yeah! Fuck. That ends my turn.
Matt: Vex! Your turn!
Laura: Cool! I click my Boots of Haste!
Matt: You feel, for the first time, the adrenaline surge through you and you suddenly go, "My brother's been hoarding this this whole time?!" Everything slows down around you ever so slightly, and for a second, your mind's racing faster than it normally does.
Laura: With my full movement, can I get behind the wall up where Keyleth was headed?
Matt: You can move 60 feet.
Laura: I want to stop in a place where I can attack before I finish my move.
Matt: You'll go over there and as you're rushing past, Keyleth--
Liam: As she rushes past, she hears  (slowly) Those are just a loaner!
Laura: (slowly) Go fuck yourself! Okay. All right. I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark. Then, for my first attack, I'm going to try a Bramble Shot.
Matt: Percy, by the way, I need you to make a concentration check. It's a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Yes! 30 on the first.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: Ten.
Matt: Your Hex fades.
Laura: I took the bracers off, right? Yes, I did. Okay. 15 plus two lightning damage plus two sneak attack and a Hunter's Mark. Ooh! 12 plus 4d8 for the Bramble Shot.
Matt: Nice! So already at 29 damage plus--?
Laura: 15. No. 13. 17.
Matt: Plus 17. All right! 46 points of damage on the first strike! What's the DC on the strength saving throw?
Laura: Oh. 16.
Matt: Yeah. He makes it.
Laura: That would have been amazing.
Matt: Ten plus 12. That would have been amazing. As you run past and fire the first arrow, it sinks in and jams into the side of where the plates of the chest armor meet the scar. As it hits, you watch it cause a spurt of dragon blood, knowing exactly where the weak points of the armor are, being a person that studied dragons.
Laura: Oh! That's right! And an additional d6 because he's a dragon, right? 2d6?
Matt: You should have the additional damage, I think it was plus two damage against creatures that are--
Laura: Oh, just plus two.
Travis: 2d20 of damage.
Laura: I thought it was a d6. Sorry. You're right, I think.
Matt: Do you want to go look it up?
Laura: No, it's fine. I'll look it up between. My next attack, I want to try one of my poisoned arrows.
Matt: You see the brambles extend out from the arrow and the dragon leans forward, already focused on Grog as you're slamming him in the side. As his body flexes, the brambles shatter.
Laura: 27!
Matt: 27 hits.
Laura: Okay! 14 plus four lightning damage. Plus Hunter's Mark is another four. What is the poison? Do I do anything for the poison? MATT I am going to go ahead and roll a constitution saving throw for him. Which succeeds. So, yeah, he just resists the poison effects of the arrows.
Laura: Okay, and then I'm going to do a third attack, right? Because I am hasted.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: And that hits too! That's 31!
Travis: Damn, girl.
Laura: 16 plus another four lightning damage! Plus Hunter's Mark, plus two plus two, because he is a dragon. But I didn't do plus two on the second one because I--
Matt: So 24 damage that final strike. Nice! You did almost 100 points of damage in a single round. (cheering)
Laura: And then I finish my round of movement and I keep running behind the building. Yeah. Right there. I know.
Matt: As you rush past, looking up into the face of the creature that you know for certain, seeing it there, that this is the creature that brought your mother to her end and half the city of Byroden to the south. And as that anger swells into you and mixes with the surge of adrenaline in your body and you don't even feel the momentum, your hands instinctively go through all training, all the years that have gone by, as each arrow gets loosed, there is just kind of this fuzz, this kind of numbness, around as your hatred is focused so clear on this dragon's head. And then the air rushes back into your lungs and you slam your back into the wall, preparing for your next round. All right, that finishes Vex's go. Vax and Lady Kima go at the same time. What do you want to do?
Liam: I am going to down the potion of healing with a bonus action.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And then now I have two actions because of the potion--
Matt: The potion of healing?
Liam: No, no. Haste. So that's bonus action, now I have two actions? Because of the potion.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Second action's used to pump out the wings.
Matt: Okay. Wings are up.
Liam: Then I am going to fly directly towards Thordak's face to-- you don't need that-- to ten feet away from him to his face. you can just hold it for a second, and cast Vow of Enmity at him.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: And then I am going to barrel roll back, fly, and land hard right down next to my sister where she's hiding.
Matt: Okay. At a non-hasted fly speed.
Liam: 120, hasted.
Matt: Oh, because you are hasted with the potion. So yeah, not a problem. Land right next to your sister.
Sam: So you prayed at him? Good job!
Matt: You swoop up, right in front, you cast the Vow of Enmity.
Liam: He could have taken a swipe at me. I'm just glad he didn't.
Matt: Oh, but we are going to get there. As you swoop up within ten feet of his face and cast the Vow, focusing on him, the dragon grins, and as you pull out of his attack space, because he has a reach of 15 feet with his bite, he is going to take a bite attack at you. That is a 32 to hit.
Liam: Can I Uncanny Dodge this?
Matt: You can.
Liam: Yeah. I have to.
Travis: 32 to hit?
Laura: We're fucked.
Matt: That's actually a bad roll. 17 points of piercing damage plus--
Liam: I knew it was going to happen.
Matt: Plus 16 points of fire damage reduced to half.
Liam: No, 17 plus 16 total.
Matt: Well, because you have fire resistance that is reduced.
Liam: Okay. So eight and 17. 25.
Matt: Yes, 25 points of damage to you.
Liam: Gives me advantage on every attack.
Laura: Oh, that's great.
Liam: I will get sneak attack on every attack whether there's someone next to him or not.
Laura: That's good.
Taliesin: Good! That's really good.
Matt: Kima is going to--
Sam: Who that? Who that? Is that Kima?
Matt: That's Kima. Kima can't do too much at this distance, unfortunately. She is going to cast Aura of Vitality on herself.
Sam: On herself?
Matt: Correct. What that does is allows her to heal people as a bonus action for as long as it lasts. Which is pretty damn helpful, right now. Let me pull it up real fast. Let's see, Aura of Vitality. She can use a bonus action to cause a creature in the aura, including herself, to regain hit points. She's doing okay. She looks over at Gilmore, who's hurt on the ground, staggering over in flames. As she rushes up, casts the spell on herself, holding her holy symbol of Bahamut to her chest, she looks up at the dragon. "Remember me?" Without even losing her vision, she puts her hand out like this, and you watch as a beam of divine energy streaks out, slams into Gilmore's side. He almost doubles over as it swirls around his body and heals his wounds for 2d6.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So he heals four hit points.
Sam: He's looking better.
Matt: All right, that is going to end Kima's turn. Pike's turn.
Sam: By committee.
Laura: Okay, we're going to move to the corner of the building that she's standing in.
Liam: Inside. Squished into the corner.
Matt: Okay. Ten feet of movement to get there.
Laura: Yes. She's going to, as a bonus action, cast Spiritual Weapon. At fifth level.
Liam: Okay. I'll mark that off.
Taliesin: Go nuts with it, yeah.
Matt: What else is she doing this round?
Laura: And then she's also going to cast Beacon of Hope.
Matt: Beacon of Hope is a 3rd-level spell. If you are casting a 3rd-level or higher spell as an action, you can only do a 2nd-level spell as a bonus action. So you can either do Beacon of Hope and then a 2nd-level Spiritual Weapon or--
Laura: So we should do Beacon of Hope and not do Spiritual Weapon because we want to do a higher Spiritual Weapon later?
Liam: So anyone within 30 feet of her is getting some nice things.
Laura: So anybody within 30 feet gets advantage on wisdom, which you already have, but you get advantage on death saving throws as well.
Liam: And the best part--
Laura: --is any time you're healed, you're automatically healed to the max possible amount.
Sam: What do you mean any time you're healed?
Liam: When someone heals you, you don't roll. You calculate the maximum amount you could possibly roll.
Laura: And that's what you're healed for.
Taliesin: So, if it's 3d4, you just get 12. That's amazing!
Sam: Do we get any healing from this as well?
Laura: No, this is a prep spell. This is something that probably we should have done before Thordak started attacking us.
Sam: Yeah, well, you're not Pike. You don't know.
Liam: So, DM. Who all gets that? Looks like Grog is just out of reach of it?
Matt: Within 30 feet of her? Grog is just out of the radius. Gilmore, Kima.
Laura: Should we have run around the corner? If we had run around the corner, would Grog get?
Matt: If you run to there? Okay, yeah. That would get Grog, Gilmore, Scanlan, Percy, Keyleth. It does not get either of you.
Laura: Well, that's fine.
Marisha: This looks bad, but I feel okay about this.
Matt: So that's your action?
Laura: And that gets Pike in that as well.
Sam: You get a bonus action.
Laura: Bonus action?
Sam: You can do a Healing Word.
Laura: Oh, that's right, Healing Word!
Matt: You can do up to a level two.
Laura: Okay, so she should do a Healing Word. Is Healing Word a level two?
Taliesin: You can do it at any level you like.
Liam: Percy needs it? Grog needs it?
Laura: Grog needs it?
Travis: Yeah. I took like 40 points of damage.
Laura: I feel like he's okay still, so Percy?
Taliesin: One of the two of us, I would say.
Marisha: I didn't get hit. I'm good.
Taliesin: Oh, I'll take it. How much do I get back?
Laura: At a level two, that's 2d4.
Matt: 2d4 plus five.
Taliesin: 13.
Marisha: Is that for everybody or just for her?
Laura: Everybody.
Matt: Anyone who is affected by the spell, all healing is maximum. For as long as it lasts, and it's concentration. Okay, that ends Pike's turn. Pike can technically move five more feet from where she is.
Laura: But she can't hide, though.
Matt: No. She's out in the open right now. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'll move ten feet towards that way, still ducking behind that stone there. I will inspire Percy. Wait, should I heal or inspire? I'll inspire Percy. I'll sing him a lovely Christmas song, (singing) You know Raishan and Vorugal, the Frigid Doom, Brimscythe and Umbrasyl, we killed in his room. But do you recall the most fucked-up dragon of all? Thordak the Cinder King had a very shiny gem. And if you ever saw it, run the fuck away from him.
Matt: Take your d12 inspiration die.
Taliesin: All right. d12 is awesome.
Matt: Bards are great. All right, that's your bonus action.
Sam: And for the move, I guess I'll attack him? I don't do that very well. I'll do Bigby's Hand. (sings) Bigby's Hand! At level seven.
Marisha: Oh, shit!
Matt: 7th-level Bigby's Hand!
Taliesin: We're just going to spray-paint Matt's hand purple and he's going to sit there, punch things.
Liam: Check out the big hand on Scan.
Matt: Where do you want Bigby's Hand to appear? Within 120 feet.
Sam: I guess keep it low. Just go for the ball shot, yeah.
Matt: All right, so what are you having the hand do?
Sam: Punch. Just punch.
Matt: So Clenched Fist, and that is with plus 2d6 for each. Sorry, plus 2d8 for each slot above fifth. That is an additional 4d8. That is 8d8. If it hits. Go ahead and roll your spell attack.
Sam: 18.
Matt: 18, no. The fist gleans off of Thordak's chin. The dragon just kind of grins (growls). "Is this all you've got?"
Sam: Actually, yes. That is my biggest thing, so yes.
Matt: "Good." All right. That brings us back to the top of the order. Now at the top of this round, we're going to start doing lair actions.
Laura: No!
Taliesin: Lair actions are the worst.
Matt: It happens after Percy's turn, though.
Taliesin: Oh, good.
Matt: So, Percy, your go.
Taliesin: Fine.
Laura: Make sure he dies before he gets anything else.
Liam: Pull out your dragon gun.
Taliesin: My dragon gun?
Marisha: We're going to be real disappointed if you can't take this all on your own.
Sam: Wait a second, Matt! Doesn't he get a disadvantage on his save because of my Cutting Words?
Matt: That wasn't a save, that was your attack.
Sam: Yeah. That's what I meant.
Matt: On the next saving throw he has to make, he has a disadvantage. Yes.
Sam: Making sure you guys know how spells work.
Travis: Yep, thank you. I was confused.
Sam: Jesus, Sam #3, why didn't you tell me that?!
Matt: Percy, what are you doing?
Taliesin: I'm going to take a deep breath and shoot directly north, or I suppose to you it would be south, down the map towards that building on the far corner. I'm just going to run in that direction.
Matt: As far as you can get with your full move?
Taliesin: That's as far as I can get with my full movement? And he has to recharge his fire probably before he can do that again?
Matt: Yeah, when it comes back to his turn I have to roll to see if he gets it that round.
Taliesin: Okay, that's fine. I'm going to take two shots while I'm running. I'm going to, just because I'm not feeling lucky right now, I'm going to burn another Deadeye on my first run, so let's do that.
Marisha: Are you feeling lucky?
Taliesin: No, no, I am really not. So less so that I'm not even going to do sharpshooter. That's awesome! I take that back.
Marisha: Percy! You should have done it.
Taliesin: It's okay. Actually, that doesn't affect the crit at all. Sharpshooter isn't affected by a crit. I critted, by the way. Sorry. That's nice. So, hey! I get that Deadeye back. That's cool.
Travis: You should have said that first and we'd all go, yay!
Taliesin: This is like bad college theater. No one knows when to applaud. Excellent. That's-- oh my god, that's kind of nice. 1d12, 2d12, 3d12, 4d12.
Liam: Nice. Actually not bad. Pretty good. This makes me happy. This is going to be funny.
Taliesin: Pretty good. That's not great, but it'll do. 24 points of damage. And I'm going to take another shot. You know what? Screw it. Let's put a sharpshooter on this. Actually, no. Never mind. Yes! I'm going to put a sharpshooter on this. I am so nervous. I'm putting a sharpshooter on it. Which is good because I rolled--
Sam: You have an inspiration.
Taliesin: 17, 18, 19, 26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Taliesin: Yay. And that's 2d12. Yay. Boo, but that's okay. 30 points of damage.
Matt: Nice. So both shots as you are running past, you watch as it slams into the sides, causing a little (explosion) out of the side of Thordak's armor, the scales slip for a second. The second shot smashes a small hole in one of the wings, but you watch as the leather seems to be largely unaffected by the impact. It's already tattered at the bottom anyway, but well done.
Taliesin: (high-pitched noises) Okay.
Matt: So, there you are. At the end of your turn, Thordak's going to go ahead and use one of his legendary actions to do a tail attack against Grog right now, because you're within range.
Travis: Yeah, test your might. Oh no, please don't! (sobs)
Matt: That's going to be a 25 to hit.
Travis: It hits.
Matt: Yep. You take 22 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to half, so 11 points of bludgeoning damage to you, Grog.
Travis: Yeah, it's good.
Matt: All right. That ends that. At this point now, you watch as through the clouds this winged figure comes and (crashing) lands on this distant building, the flames flickering out.
Laura: Moment of truth. Moment of truth.
Matt: As the impact happens, you watch as Thordak turns and grins. "There you are. Oh, you're going to taste so good." Raishan grins from the side. "Not to worry, my king."
Sam: Oh shit. That doesn't sound good.
Laura: I can't tell what she's going to do.
Sam: Is she lying? She's a deceitful one.
Matt: At this point, she will-- let me pull it up. Oh there you go, there's the spell sheet. She's going to go ahead and move right there. Gets right up onto the building that you guys are hiding behind as you feel the rubble and rock tumble around you, you look up and you can see the giant green leathery wings unfurl. She inhales, her chest expanding. (cheering)
Matt: Releasing a giant cloud of poisonous gas in the direction of Thordak. Into his face. Suprise, motherfucker!
Sam: We have the best friends.
Matt: Does not make his-- wait, this is a poison, oh, it's constitution. He does make that. He takes 38 points of poison.
Travis: 38?
Matt: 38 points of poison damage on that one. As Thordak rears from the attack. "Oh, you'll die especially painfully."
Liam: Is Thordy La Forge poisoned there?
Matt: No, he just takes poison damage.
Liam: No disadvantage. I really just wanted to say Thordy La Forge.
Taliesin: Of course you did.
Matt: All righty. So, that ends Raishan's turn. Raishan's like, "Now, get in, circle and finish this!"
Marisha: Wait, Raishan said that?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: No, that was Lady Kima's voice. (laughter)
Liam: Clarota, is that you? On a flying steed.
Marisha: I turn to Raishan and say, I don't take orders from you, I'm only doing this because it's a good plan. And then I run in. If I run my full movement, can I get into touch range with him?
Matt: You can, yes.
Marisha: Okay, angry at what happened before and realizing that not a lot is probably going to work unless I get ballsy, I run in guns blazing, and I am going to do Contagion on him.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm going to attempt Slimy Doom.
All: Ooh.
Marisha: In honor of Zahra! And her teaching us about hentai!
Travis: Yup. I saw that hentai.
Sam: We hear Zahra in the distance, "I'm still alive!"
Matt: Okay. So make a melee spell attack against him. So roll a d20, add your spell attack bonus.
Marisha: I know, I'm picking the right one.
Laura: It should probably be like a black or a green or something that's like slimy.
Marisha: I'll do a green one. Green's good.
Travis: Or just any dice.
Marisha: Shut up, Travis. Ooh, that's not too bad. That's not too bad, plus 12? So that's 28!
Matt: 28 hits.
Marisha: (laughs) Redemption!
Liam: Keyleth is on The Price is Right.
Matt: Contagion, we'll put that blue there. So at the end of each of the target's turns it has to make a constitution saving throw. After failing three, the disease takes effect.
Sam: After failing three?
Marisha: He has to fail three.
Matt: So as you're rushing up, running past the tumbling rocks and boulders of the barely standing ceiling that Raishan's stepping on, you rush towards Thordak, and getting closer you see the immense size towering above you. And getting this close, there is a heated presence around him, like an aura of superheated air that burns you as you get close enough to touch him. You reach out and grab as you cast the spell under your breath. And as you touch the edge of his scales, it's like touching a hot iron (sizzles). Your fingers singe upon contact, but you feel the burst of druidic energy pierce through the scales and you watch as a little bit of black power seeps into the body and curls in between the scales and has taken root.
Travis: (whispered) Yes.
Marisha: That's all I got, right? I'm going to turn. Grog, you're still down, right?
Travis: (weakly) Yeah.
Marisha: I'm going to do a bonus Healing Word on Grog. I'm going to go ahead and do it at third--
Matt: Can't do third level because you cast a 5th-level spell.
Marisha: Second level.
Matt: All right. So 2d4 plus six.
Marisha: But it's max. Eight plus six.
Matt: 14. You heal 14.
Travis: Woohoo! 14 points. 194.
Matt: All right. At the end of your turn, Thordak's going to go ahead and use his next two legendary actions to use his wing attack. Thordak, now being surrounded by everything, goes (wing flapping). He begins beating his wings. You watch as the flames on the ground begin to curl up into these small tornadoes in the presence from the sheer vacuum of wind up under the wings. I need Grog and Keyleth and Raishan to make dexterity saving throws.
Travis: I think I have advantage on those, (singing) because I got Danger Sense!
Marisha: 12.
Travis: Natural 20.
All: Ooh.
Matt: So you stay put, hunkering down for this. Keyleth, you suffer 13 points of bludgeoning damage. 13 points of bludgeoning damage and six points of fire damage.
Marisha: To three, so 16 total.
Matt: Yes, and you are knocked prone as the wind blows you to the ground. And the dragon can move up to half its movement speed. So it's going to pull back to there.
Sam: Do you get an attack, Grog?
Matt: You do. As you get hit by that, by the way, you can do retaliation or you can do your attack of opportunity, either works right now.
Travis: Yeah, yeah. Reckless and Great Weapon Master.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Eight and that's a natural 20.
Matt: Go ahead and roll your brutal damage there.
Sam: Wow. That's a hit.
Travis: 19, 20, plus ten is 30 points of damage, including the one point of necrotic, and then I double that?
Liam: Double all the dice.
Travis: Double all the dice. Right so, 60.
Laura: No. Double the dice.
Travis: Oh, sorry. Okay. 12, so 25, 35, 37.
Matt: 37, nice.
Travis: Thanks. Two points necrotic.
Matt: Yes. Okay. So, as the wind beats up and the dragon begins to back up--
Laura: Did you add your plus ten, because it was Reckless?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: --hovering off the ground, you strike out with the-- technically, yeah, it was Reckless, you cannot do Great Weapon Master on the-- well, I guess you can on any attack you make. I'll double check on that real fast. So we'll say that's right there.
Travis: Yeah, if it's a reaction I'm not quite sure.
Matt: I'm going to double check just to make sure.
Travis: That could have been better.
Laura: That's okay, that was a six.
Matt: On your turn, so no, you cannot do that, so 26, yes.
Sam: That's great! That's extra! That's just bonus.
Matt: You reach out with the axe amongst the heat and the wind blowing in your face (wind blows) and strike across the front of Thordak's chest as he begins to swing back with his wings beating out. All right, at the end of that turn, as Thordak does that, at the end of that turn, Raishan's going to use two legendary actions to cast Blight on Thordak.
Travis: There's some shit going down on this map.
Laura: Oh my God, Matt. I'm impressed and terrified of you for having to keep track of this.
Liam: They should really just do it already.
Laura: I honestly had no idea what my hands were going to do.
Matt: Constitution saving throw from Thordak.
Sam: At disadvantage!
Matt: At disadvantage. That's a natural one. He is going to use one of his legendary resistances.
Laura: Get rid of them.
Marisha: Burn it, burn it! Burn that shit.
Sam: He might have five of those.
Taliesin: Yeah and now he's got four.
Marisha: He has three, right?
Laura: He's probably got more than three. He's Thordak.
Taliesin: Thordak, he's got like 12.
Matt: He takes 18 points of necrotic damage. All right. And because I initially forgot it, lair action!
Sam: Oh shit. Lair action.
Matt: Lair action, indeed.
Laura: Isn't that like if you forget to move or something, you don't get to do it later, if you forgot about it?
Sam: Everyone with knees dies.
Matt: For that, we're going to choose--
Laura: No no no no, I was just joshing you!
Taliesin: Don't make him look things up, it's always going to be worse.
Matt: The two twins that have currently ducked around the way, you feel the ground nearby begin to shake, and down below you the earth cracks open and a giant column of magma (explosion) shoots out and sprays in the vicinity.
Liam: Evasion!
Matt: You've already used Evasion.
Liam: On this round? It's once a round. This is a whole new round.
Matt: Actually, you're right, you're right. You haven't gone since then. All right. Dexterity saving throw from both of you.
Liam: Okay. At advantage, because of those boots, man!
Laura: That's good. (whispers) Okay, that's good, that's good.
Liam: 23.
Laura: 27.
Matt: Okay. You both take--
Liam: Did we fail the save?
Matt: You succeeded on the save.
Liam: So I take zero.
Matt: So you take zero. You, however, take what would be 12 points of fire damage reduced to half, so six.
Sam: (scoffs) You call this a lair?
Matt: All right. That ends Keyleth's go, it's now Jarett. Jarett, who's loaded up his crossbow, is going to go ahead and spin around, take two shots at Thordak. That's a cocked die. That's good. 18 plus seven hits, and the second one just barely hits, actually. There's two hits on him. Five points. Two ones in a row for damage, are you serious? Okay.
Marisha: Goddamn it, Jarett.
Laura: It's okay, I'm happy that he's here.
Liam: Happens to everybody.
Matt: And then he is going to try and move back this way to keep everyone scattered and use the space to his advantage. That's going to end Jarett's turn.
Taliesin: Is there a little hole in the ground where the magma came out or no?
Matt: No, it burst and then it cooled and covered the space. All righty. That brings us to Gilmore's turn. Gilmore, who's in a bad place, is going to go ahead and take his superior healing potion.
Taliesin: Gets max healing, because he was in the spell.
Matt: That's true. Yeah, so he takes 16, 20, 24 plus eight is 32. Nice.
Marisha: That's awesome! Good spell!
Liam: Thanks Pike. We're so glad you're here.
Matt: Gilmore, who currently drinks the potion. "This is already not the best start to this, but let's see what else I can do here."
Liam: Come on, Shaun.
Matt: He's going to try a Hold Monster. From where he is right there. That's a wisdom saving throw for Thordak. Yeah, that succeeds. That's a nine plus-- but he tried.
Sam: And looked good doing it.
Laura: That's right. Those robes are fabulous, Gilmore!
Matt: "Thank you!" He goes darting behind the other building off the opposite side. Yeah, that actually doesn't help in this circumstance. That ends his turn. Grog.
Travis: Yes?
Matt: It's you and the dragon's go.
Travis: (giggles) Now, who's going first this time?
Matt: You both are going at the same time, so what are you going to do?
Travis: Ah, you want to know what I'm going to do, do you? Intimidated by my presence, eh? Whack the Titanstone Knuckles!
Sam: You're now 1/16 his size.
Travis: Yeah, yeah. I now come up to his ankle bone. Life is a thrill.
Matt: Basically.
Travis: Can I use my full-- oh, he's far away. Shit.
Matt: Yeah, he moved away from you.
Travis: Balls and ass. I would like to run straight forward and then veer off to this side, I'm flanking him.
Matt: This side over here?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah. You can get over to there.
Travis: Great. Am I now within striking range?
Matt: You are.
Travis: I would like to make all three attack Great Weapon Master, Reckless!
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: 12, oh, so close. Damn it, covering up the wrong page. That's, damn it, 19.
Matt: 19. The first strike, you slam the axe as your form grows, rushing up next to the dragon, grinning, feeling the foam gathering at the corner of your mouth. You swing with the axe and carves a small line, but doesn't actually penetrate the armor of Thordak.
Travis: (Scottish accent) Great. That's better. That is a 26.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Good.
Taliesin: You beat the Scottish into him.
Travis: 27 minus five is 22.
Matt: 22 misses.
Taliesin: Good to know. We're learning. 22 misses.
Matt: Roll damage on that strike.
Travis: I got to get rid of that fucking Great Weapon Master, that thing's killing me.
Laura: Oh yeah.
Liam: His AC is high, so ditch the handicap.
Travis: Hey, that's a six! Six points of necrotic for a total of 36 points of damage.
Matt: 36 points of damage. Nice. So, as two blows are deflected from the armor, one does sink in pretty hard, carving a piece of dragon flesh that's dangling off now in the torso region. Thordak's like (snarls).
Travis: 'Ello, poppet.
Matt: "Insect."
Travis: Sect?
Matt: Is that your turn?
Travis: Oh, insect. Yeah, that's my turn.
Matt: Yeah, okay. Thordak begins laughing, (deep laugh).
Laura: Oh no, this is the laughter we heard about. It drives you crazy. I cover my ears!
Matt: The fire breath does not come back, it's a two.
Sam: Oh, whew.
Travis: The fire breath does not recharge?
Matt: Nope.
Marisha: That's good, that's good.
Matt: However, he does make a full multiattack and that's four attacks against you.
Travis: On me? I'm trying to keep him warm! Like, I'm trying to give him a little touch, little feel, let him know that we love him.
Matt: And it's with advantage against you?
Travis: Yeah, that's right.
Matt: Okay, that's a 34.
Travis: I think that'll hit.
Matt: Natural one and a 15, that is a 32. Natural 20.
Sam: On the last one, I'm going to Cutting Words.
Travis: There's three. There's one more.
Sam: Then on the last one.
Matt: Okay. Natural 20! (laughs)
Sam: Well then, maybe that won't help.
Travis: (singing) Happy trails to... shit.
Matt: Okay, so a bite, two claw attacks, and a tail attack against you, as its tail swings down and whips towards you. So, first, the bite attack. You suffer 16 plus a 12. 28 points of piercing damage reduced to 14 as well as--
Marisha: Come on, this is what you're built for. This is why we trained you.
Matt: 19 points of fire damage, reduced that to nine.
Travis: Cool.
Matt: So that's the first, that's the bite attack. The two claw attacks against you. That is 18 points of slashing damage reduced to nine. And then the critical on the claw attack. That is--
Travis: Was there no fire damage on the second one?
Matt: No, that's just the bite attack. That is 32 points of slashing damage, reduced to 16. And the tail attack, that is also a crit. 24. 36 points of bludgeoning damage.
Sam: Can I Cutting Words that?
Matt: You can, yes.
Sam: So I yell at him, "You're so ugly, you scared the shit out of an outhouse!"
Matt: Go ahead and roll your d12. 36.
Sam: Make that a 33.
Matt: So 16 points of bludgeoning damage. And as part of his multiattack, he also uses his Frightful Presence, so everyone, as you see it clawing at Grog, it's like (roars), the tail whips down and slams the ground. The entire ground quakes and you feel all the flames grow brighter in the vicinity. While Thordak is large in this moment, it's like staring at a fire god. I need everybody--
Taliesin: Who is not immune to fear?
Laura: We're all immune to fear.
Matt: Everyone, yeah, all of you are immune to fear.
Laura: Yeah. Except for Jarett.
Matt: Except for Jarett. Jarett does not succeed! Jarett is pissing himself right now behind. He almost ran into the wall and is like, "Oh, this is not good!" (yells)
Liam: Hey, Thordy, eat a dick.
Matt: Raishan does make her save.
Sam: Does not?
Matt: Does.
Laura: Oh, good.
Travis: Legendary? Did he do his legendary thingy? Or he just made it?
Marisha: Yeah, he also has to save against my Contagion.
Matt: His turn's not done yet. Raishan uses her legendary resistance to resist the-- Oh sorry, she doesn't have to because she made it. From the shaking and the quaking you watch as the flames that brighten up leap out of the sides in the form of two fire elementals.
Laura: Damn it!
Matt: That leap out of the sides of the cavern.
Laura: Can they fly?
Travis: Can we bring all the alcohol on set right now?
Taliesin: There's a lot of alcohol on the set right now. A lot of it's hiding.
Liam: How about acknowledge it?
Taliesin: There's a mini fridge built into Trinket.
Liam: Ancient dragon wasn't enough, huh, Matt?
Matt: Thordak is going to move around Grog to this side.
Travis: Yeah, move around me, bitch. I'm going to get my insults in while I'm still breathing.
Marisha: He accidentally stepped on one of his elemental friends.
Matt: He moved around it. It's fine. The elementals are now going the same turn as Thordak. 50 feet. Ten, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50. This elemental. 35, 40, 45, 50. Right there. They're going to rush up and get into base to base with you guys, and up to Keyleth, who's currently on the ground prone as the elemental (roar) and comes up against you. You hear the familiar sound of the flickering flame of its elemental form rush up towards you.
Marisha: I feel like I saw you, in like the fire plane! 'Sup, man?
Matt: All righty. At this time, you also hear a distant sound in the sky. A (sharp whooshes), but you make no visual. Everyone roll a perception check.
Sam: 21.
Marisha: 24.
Taliesin: 12.
Laura: Do I get advantage because it's dragon-related?
Matt: This is not dragon-related.
Liam: 25.
Travis: Six.
Laura: 16.
Matt: All right. Scanlan, you rolled a 21, you said?
Sam: 21.
Matt: So, Scanlan, Keyleth, and Vax. You guys see a shape in the darkness of clouds and the smoke ahead. In between the sounds of thunder and lightning in the distance, you see the bow of the skyship Deera.
Laura: Yes, the skyship!
Taliesin: Fucking Teddy Ruxpin.
Matt: (laughs) Vex, it's your turn.
Laura: Me? Okay. Where can I go to where I can hit him?
Travis: Pretty much anywhere.
Matt: With your bow, you have quite a few options. So you'd have to move around this way or this way.
Laura: Is the fire elemental right next to me?
Matt: It is. It'll get a swipe at you if you try to move away from it.
Laura: Asshole. If I'm a third level rogue, do I get disengage?
Matt: As a bonus action, yeah.
Laura: Okay, so for my bonus action I'll disengage. And then I'll move so I can hit Thordak. So can I move towards-- back towards the very back building? Can I get all the way there?
Matt: With Haste, yes, you can.
Laura: Okay. So then I'm going to shoot him! Before I duck in around a corner or whatever. And I want to-- oh, that's 18.
Matt: 18 does not hit. So you rush past, disengaging. You hit up against the edge of the wall with your arrow out (arrow whoosh). It arcs past and misses.
Laura: Yeah, it's pretty far. Okay. This next one. I'm going to use another poison arrow. Oh my God, I miss him again. Dice jail!
Matt: That one hits the hide but ricochets off.
Laura: Okay okay. Third attack. 25.
Matt: 25 hits.
Laura: Yay! One, that's one lightning, at 17 plus, Grog is standing next to him? Yeah, it's good. That's nine, 13. Plus 13.
Sam: Hey, that's many points.
Matt: So a total of--?
Laura: 14, 15, 16, 17 plus 13.
Matt: So 30. Nice. All righty. So the final arrow releases and (whoosh) gets stuck up under one of the scales on the side of where its shoulder and body hits and the dragon, Thordak, turns and (roars and laughs).
Laura: Oh no, I hide behind that building.
Sam: Oh, God. What was that?
Travis: Those faces are-- wow!
Taliesin: Yeah, way too many emotions happening there.
Matt: You hear the voice ring out, "Don't worry, we'll take them down. All of them. Each and every one."
Laura: He's crazy as fuck.
Sam: He's straight-up crazy.
Taliesin: No, he's not.
Matt: That ends your turn, Vex?
Laura: I guess so, I mean, I don't know what else I can do.
Matt: All right. Vax and Kima.
Sam: When I was younger, I had an imaginary friend, too.
Liam: Should I go, or should Kima go?
Matt: (chuckles) Kima, frustratingly so, being a short-ranged lady that she is, is first off going to glance over and see Keyleth on the ground. How are you doing, Keyleth?
Marisha: I'm okay. I'm on the ground, but I'm not super low. I'm still full on hit points. Well.
Matt: Yeah, she's going to go full double move on this one. She wants to get into the fray and is so frustrated that she's too far out of the way. Kima is going to go ahead and rush out and do a 2d6 heal to Gilmore again. So that's seven to Gilmore.
Sam: No, well he gets full healing.
Matt: Oh that's right. 2d6, so it's a full 12.
Taliesin: That's so clutch. We should do that every time from now on.
Matt: Kima is now taking a full 50 foot move. 50. Okay, she's charging in. "We've done this before and we can do it again!" as she has her Holy Avenger arcing over her shoulder, running screaming. (yells) Vax, what are you doing?
Liam: Bonus action, I'm taking the potion of invulnerability.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Travis: Time to get crunk.
Liam: Next action, I cast Hunter's Mark on Thordak.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: Okay.
Sam: You can do that?
Liam: Then I fly at Thordak's face and strike at him with the dragon-slayer sword. (cheering)
Liam: Face. Face.
Matt: Right, so you're up in the air now.
Liam: At advantage. Good. 26 hits.
Matt: Yes, it does.
Liam: So this is dragon-slayer sword plus Sneak Attack, I'm going to Smite and Hunter's Mark.
Sam: That's all the attacks.
Liam: Yes, all the attacks.
Taliesin: Every die.
Liam: Okay, nine plus six is 17, plus-- 18, 19, 21, balls. 21, okay plus the Sneak Attack. 27, 29, 33, 39, 40, 42, 44, plus the Hunter's Mark, 45 total.
Matt: That includes the Smite damage as well?
Liam: No, no.
Matt: It's 2d8.
Liam: Now we're at 50.
Sam: What about the dragon sword? Did you do that?
Liam: That's done. So I don't know exactly how far it was to his face and I know I'm all out of moves and I'm open to getting bitten again, but I want to fly away from his face as far as I can and land opposite everybody. Maybe near the lip. No, behind the building behind him.
Matt: I'm currently working out how much movement you've done, because you're crazy.
Liam: 120 feet of movement.
Matt: It's about 65 to get up to his face.
Laura: Oh, sweet.
Matt: All right, and you're going to pull back from him?
Liam: Curve over his, oh, no-- sword's in his head? My friends are going to fucking kill you today, you fuck! Arc over his head.
Matt: The blade, which has jammed itself right in the cheekbone under the eye of the dragon, as you draw it out, there's a streak of dragon blood (roar, unhinged laughter). You arc over. As you do, he reaches up with his face, his jaws (snarl) reach out to try and bite you. That is a 21 to hit.
Liam: No.
Matt: The jaws snap in the air, just as you coast through with your wings.
Liam: I'll slam down, if I can, behind the building behind his big fat ass.
Matt: Sure.
Laura: I whisper on the earring, that was my brother! That was my brother.
Matt: You are going to have an attack of opportunity from-- oh, no, you disengaged from the--
Liam: I didn't disengage.
Matt: Oh, sorry, so the Fire Elemental actually would have gotten an attack of opportunity on you as you ran past.
Laura: Before all that, he knocks you unconscious.
Matt: That's a 20-- yeah, misses.
Taliesin: Vax, it might be worth taking a peek in that crater when you get a second.
Liam: Working on it, working on it.
Matt: All righty, that ends your turn, Kima's turn. Pike's up. However! At the end of Vax's turn, Thordak is going to go ahead and use a tail attack against Grog.
Marisha: Did he ever make that save, by the way?
Sam: Not yet.
Matt: Disadvantage, which is good because it was a natural 20. And a six, plus 16, 22. Makes it.
Laura: 22. He's got to roll under a four or lower to get--
Sam: There's no way, it's not going to happen.
Laura: It's possible! It's possible!
Marisha: It keeps going. It still goes.
Matt: It keeps going. It lasts for seven days.
Marisha: Yeah, it's a seven-day thing.
Travis: After we're all dead, he'll get very sick.
Taliesin: If we die today, he's going to get the flu later in his life.
Travis: Let's reason with him! You can die now, wait for later--
Liam: "That doesn't look normal."
Travis: "Why does it burn when I pee?"
Matt: However, it lasts for seven days, but remember, that's if the spell succeeds. If he succeeds three saving throws, it goes away.
Marisha: If he succeeds three?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I thought he just had to fail.
Matt: Fail three to take effect, succeed three to just get rid of the disease.
Liam: Just dish out damage.
Laura: These damn spells.
Taliesin: He has disadvantage.
Matt: So, anyway, that brings us to Pike. Oh, he was doing the tail attack to you. So, using one of the Legendary Actions to make a tail strike against--
Liam: So Legendaries can fall whenever they want?
Matt: At the end of someone else's turn.
Travis: This is against me.
Matt: Yeah, because you're right there. With advantage. That would be 31. So yeah, that hits you.
Taliesin: I pray for a single-digit number.
Travis: Almost double my AC.
Matt: 20 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to ten.
Taliesin: Man, you are a tank.
Travis: Not much longer.
Taliesin: We're working on it.
Matt: All righty. So, Pike, what's Pike doing?
Laura: Okay, Pike is going to run forward--
Liam: "Oh, Grog!"
Laura: "Oh, Grog!" And she runs as far forward as she can.
Matt: That's as far as she can get.
Laura: We're trying to get a little diagonal, she wants to be 60 feet away from him.
Matt: He's within 60 feet.
Laura: Okay. Can she be at a diagonal so she's not lined up with Keyleth and Bigby?
Matt: I mean, that's as far as she can get.
Laura: Okay. Then she casts Heal on Grog, which gives him 70 hit points, automatically healed.
Travis: That's amazing!
Matt: Yeah. So you're up 70 hit points, Grog.
Laura: And that's a 6th-level spell, so she's going to cast Spiritual Weapon as a 5th-level spell as her bonus action.
Matt: She can't, because she already cast a 6th-level spell. If you do a spell that's higher than 2nd-level, you can only do a 2nd-level spell as your bonus action.
Laura: Oh, that's how it works. I thought it just had to be lower than--
Matt: Technically, rules as written, you can't do that, but as we've been playing, for the sake of having so many players, I allow bonus action spells as long as they're level two or lower.
Laura: Should we just do it?
Taliesin: No, no.
Laura: If she does it at a 2nd-level, then--
Liam: And it'll keep going.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: But what happens if you do it at a higher level?
Marisha: More damage.
Laura: Well yeah, but she's always going to be at a higher level than 2nd-level spells, so it doesn't matter.
Taliesin: Well, I mean, like, next round though, if she does that at a 5th-level, just the damage it'll add will be more than double the damage it'll do now.
Liam: I say wait, because she's doing her job. She's keeping Grog alive.
Marisha: So you might want to do that at a lower spell level, and keep the higher levels for healing.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay. Wait-- okay, she can also do Mass Healing Word as a bonus action at-- never mind, that's a 3rd-level spell, so fuck it.
Matt: Yeah, sorry.
Laura: She can do Healing Word, though! At second level.
Matt: She can.
Laura: Should we do that? Who needs healing?
Sam: I mean, everybody.
Laura: She's going to do Healing Word on Grog again.
Liam: At max.
Matt: Okay. So at second level, that means that's 2d4 plus five. So 13, you heal 13 hit points.
Travis: Nice!
Taliesin: Which is like another attack you absorb. That's great. It's like one more attack to absorb.
Matt: All right, that ends Pike's turn, then. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'm up?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: For my attack, I will punch the fire elemental currently menacing Kiki with my fist of fury.
Matt: All righty, go ahead and roll a spell attack.
Sam: Okay, 24.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: It would have hit the fucking dragon.
Matt: It would've. So 8d8 points of damage to the fire elemental.
Sam: 8d8. I need all the d8s.
Travis: All the d8s.
Marisha: Here, I've got d8s, how many do you need?
Laura: Hey, Scanlan. (mimes playing a flute)
Taliesin: That's seven.
Sam: Four... I need one more. That's a d12. (laughs) Oh man, these are all good, though.
Taliesin: So you want one more, though.
Sam: I do. Oh my God! Okay. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 30, 41.
Matt: 41 points of damage, nice! It slams into his form and you watch as his body kind of tears open for a second, the flames dissipating and then form back in, but they're starting to flicker.
Sam: He's not dead?
Matt: No.
Sam: As my bonus action, I'll punch him again.
Matt: No bonus.
Sam: That was my action, as a bonus action, I can do something else with Bigby, no?
Matt: Let me double check.
Sam: Every subsequent action I can do something as a bonus action, does that also negate the action?
Matt: When you cast a spell as a bonus action, it says here you can move the hand and cause the effects. It's your bonus action to move the spell. So your action is there, I'll say-- it says specifically bonus action.
Sam: So I can't do it as my action?
Laura: So you can do something else!
Sam: So that was my bonus action, then.
Matt: Correct, to do that is your bonus.
Sam: So I can do something else, then?
Matt: I'll let you do it again if you want to.
Sam: No, no, no, I'll do something else. Oh! By the way, I can't use my movement to drink a potion, right?
Matt: No.
Sam: Okay (laughs).
Travis: (laughing) I'd like to drink a potion.
Sam: Can I lean over the wall there? And I'll Lightning Bolt the same guy.
Matt: Okay. So it would be over the edge of that wall there and (blasting noise). All right, go for it. So that's a no. That is a 12 for its dexterity saving throw, so it takes full damage.
Sam: All right, so.
Taliesin: Oh!
Sam: Oh!
Sam: Four ones in a row so far, so-- (laughter)
Sam: So I made up for some of them. 15.
Matt: 15 points of lightning damage against the fire elemental. Okay, the bolt hits it and the fire elemental goes (sizzling), not terribly damaged by the impact.
Travis: At least it didn't point and laugh at you.
Matt: Okay, do you want to stay where you are?
Sam: Yeah, absolutely.
Matt: Okay, that ends Scanlan's turn. Up to the top: Percival.
Travis: He used your full first name.
Taliesin: Yeah, okay, that's fine.
Marisha: It's like when you're in trouble.
Taliesin: I am in trouble. I have a whole bunch of your d8s over here, by the way. Feel free to pull them out whenever you like. I'm going to try a couple things. I'm going to do a piercing shot on the fire elemental, which I think I can do. I'm going to start moving in a northerly direction, so I guess I'll take like one or two steps southwest, I suppose it would be to you. Yeah, there you go.
Matt: There?
Taliesin: Yeah, that'll do it. And I'm going to do a piercing shot. That burns a grit, okay. That'll do! That's 25 to hit the elemental.
Matt: 25 hits.
Taliesin: And now I have to roll again for Thordak?
Matt: Well, you have to decide whether your-- if it's a piercing shot affecting also Kima or Grog. Because it's a straight line, and it hits-- depending on how you angle it, you're either hitting Kima or you're hitting Grog.
Sam: Oh shit.
Taliesin: Really?
Matt: Yep.
Travis: I'm saying Kima's not actually attached to a human being, just saying.
Taliesin: Kima's not short enough that it'll go right over her head?
Matt: Nope. As per the rules as designed, no.
Travis: I totally love Kima, I got nothing against her. Just looking out for myself right now.
Matt: She's parkouring off of the damaged wall, trying to get into the fray with the dragon, and happens to catch where the bullet would be going.
Taliesin: Okay, that's happening, apparently.
Marisha: Are you shooting Kima?
Taliesin: It's either Kima or Grog. Although Grog takes half damage.
Matt: This is true.
Travis: Yeah, okay, come on.
Taliesin: You take half damage.
Travis: All right. I'll remember this later.
Matt: So Grog it is? Roll for attack against Grog.
Laura: I know, his head is so high. How are you hitting Grog?
Travis: It's in the rules.
Taliesin: It's in the rules.
Matt: In theory, from this angle, in to hit the fire elemental and Thordak, he has to aim up.
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: 20? Against Grog hits?
Travis: Yeah, it hits.
Matt: And roll against Thordak.
Taliesin: And, no. I can't have a misfire once I've already hit the first?
Matt: Correct, only the additional attack can misfire.
Taliesin: Okay. That's 15, that doesn't hit.
Sam: So you only hit Grog.
Taliesin: I only hit Grog. No, I also hit the fire elemental.
Matt: Roll damage once.
Taliesin: Yeah, I hit the fire elemental, though.
Marisha: Maybe you'll kill it.
Taliesin: Maybe I will. Maybe it's Maybelline. Where are my d12s, they seem to have all vanished.
Marisha: Kill it! Oh, jeez. Come on, man.
Taliesin: That's awful. 13 points of damage.
Matt: Okay. Grog, you take 13 points of piercing damage, halved to six. Round it down. Six.
Taliesin: Sorry! And the bullet gets lodged in you.
Matt: Yeah, basically.
Liam: It's there for 50 years.
Taliesin: Sorry! And then, is the fire elemental still standing?
Matt: Yes, it is.
Taliesin: I'm irritated. I'm burning another grit, and I'm going to do a pushback on the elemental. That's actually no save, that's just a pushback. I just have to hit. And that hits, I should have done a-- that's a 29, 32 to hit.
Matt: 32 to hit. That'll hit, go ahead and roll damage. And it just gets pushed back ten feet?
Taliesin: No, I'm saving you.
Marisha: I mean, I could have handled it.
Taliesin: 14. I want you to be able to get up without that thing on you. 20 points of damage. And it gets pushed back ten feet. Thank you.
Matt: Its form gets knocked back, coalesces again as a flickering flame creature. It's looking hurt, it's barely keeping its form together at this point, it's still standing.
Taliesin: I'm going to use my bonus action for a healing surge to add 22 points to my hit points. Then I'm going to keep running, use spider to run over that wall into that little house beneath the green dragon.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Spider-climb is cool.
Sam: Little house on the prairie, with the dragon on it.
Taliesin: There we go.
Matt: All right. That finishes your turn, Percy. Now you watch as the skyship Deera pushes through some of the clouds, and you can now see a series of small shapes as it looks like a half-dozen wyverns are currently harrying it from the sky, attacking it. You can see some sort of combat going on on the bow of the ship, but you also watch as two of its arballists are set up, and fire towards Thordak. That actually hits. That's cocked. And, yeah. A 16 and a 15. With bonus, it hits both.
Laura: That's Captain Damon, right? To the rescue!
Matt: So, they're both super-heated, they are flaming arballists, fire doesn't have an effect, but they still do piercing damage, for a total of 22 points of piercing damage. You watch these two large, thick heavy metallic piercing bolts come arcing through, slamming into Thordak's hide. The flames flicker on the edge where it impacted, though it has little effect, and Thordak is (insane growling).
Travis: Crazy motherfucker.
Laura: He's so fucking crazy.
Matt: (insane growling) (maniacal laughter)
Sam: Oh, god.
Matt: Two of the wyverns apparently, noticing the fray, and peel off, beginning to make their way down to where this struggle is happening.
Sam: No problem. (whispered) Big problem!
Liam: This is a busy battlefield.
Matt: At this point in time, I'm going to do--
Taliesin: You're having way too much fun.
Matt: Yeah. Okay.
Sam: Matt has been waiting a year for this.
Liam: Don't worry, sir, we didn't see you playing with your dolls.
Matt: (laughs) Grog and Kima. Suddenly the ground quakes beneath you, and it splits open, and a very thick, yellowish-green sulfurous gas just spills out in the vicinity, immediately filling your lungs and causing your chest to seize just from breathing the air in. I need both you and her to make a... The area is now heavily obscured, so now there is a heavy smoke all in this area right now.
Laura: Does his head peek up above that?
Matt: Yes, it does.
Laura: He's so tall.
Matt: You don't do anything yet.
Travis: Nothing yet?
Matt: You don't do anything yet.
Travis: On my turn.
Matt: On your turn, you'll do it.
Sam: Does that affect the fire elemental, too?
Matt: It may.
Laura: You don't know.
Sam: I don't. Sam Five has his theories, though.
Matt: For Raishan's turn, as smoke has filled the area, (coughing) you're having a hard time-- Raishan sees this, picks up off the ground as the wyvern begins to strike. First I'm going to see if her breath comes back. It does not. Seeing the new creatures in the fray, is going to rush up and interfere with this one immediately, and just do a full round of attacks against the wyvern.
Travis: (singing) Eat the little pterodactyl.
Matt: That'll hit. That'll hit. That'll hit. Bite and two claws. Yep. That wyvern is looking really hurt, as you watch as Raishan reaches up and just tears into its side, and claws into its belly, they're both wrestling in the air, almost in a momentary freefall, then catch themselves again. Raishan just clings on. The wyvern is already in a really, really bad place.
Sam: Oh, that's great.
Matt: That ends Raishan's turn. At the end of Raishan's turn, Thordak is going to do another wing attack.
Liam: Man, Groggy. 17 displacer beasts just appear.
Laura: Like, why would he add wyverns? For his own sake!
Matt: He's going to do another wing attack, at the cost of two of its actions. Picking up the wind around it once more, I need Grog... Kima's just out of the range, thankfully. Grog, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: I have advantage because of--
Matt: You do.
Laura: Would the wings disperse the gas on the ground?
Matt: Nope! But it does push it.
Laura: Damn it.
Marisha: Oh, boy.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17, nope. You take--
Laura: Oh, no!
Matt: 16 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to eight.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And you take eight points of fire damage, reduced to four, from the impact, and you are knocked prone. So you are now prone on the ground. And this gets pushed ever-so-slightly this way.
Travis: Off of me?
Matt: Off of you, onto Keyleth, Pike, Kima, currently. The dragon does shift.
Taliesin: Oh! No, Grog's down, so there's no attack of opportunity.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up. Initially, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: Yeah, all right. Not that one, not that one. Gil! Don't fuck me, Gil. All right, that's not too bad. 19.
Matt: 19, you succeed. You manage to just hold your breath, and the poison doesn't makes its way and fit into your lungs.
Marisha: So, I still have this asshole in front of me, right?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Marisha: But he's been pushed back?
Matt: It's pushed back, yeah, so it's not in contact with you.
Taliesin: Yeah, you got to see if you can get up and walk away.
Marisha: Yeah, that's cool. I will stand up.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Rise up! This guy in front of me is almost dead, right?
Matt: He's looking pretty rough, yeah.
Sam: Focus on the dragon.
Travis: What was that?
Sam: "Focus on the dragon."
Travis: "Focus on the dragon."
Marisha: How far away is Thordak from me?
Matt: Quite a ways away. I'd say close to 65, 70 feet from you.
Marisha: Okay. I am going to-- Can I move up one square closer to Thordak, but not get near the--
Matt: Yeah, right there, you can.
Marisha: But I'm in this cloud, too! Shit.
Sam: You have resistance to poison clouds, remember?
Marisha: I don't, but that's nice. And now I'm going to--
Matt: You are immune to poison, just so you're aware.
Marisha: Am I?
Matt: Because of the Heroes' Feast.
Marisha: Oh, because of the Heroes' Feast! Oh, that's right. Oh, well, fine.
Matt: Thordak doesn't know that.
Marisha: Right. And then I'm going to cast Blight on Thordak.
Matt: Okay. Thordak's going to make a saving throw. This is constitution?
Marisha: I think so?
Matt: Success. So half damage.
Sam: Success. Half damage. Hey, you caused damage! That's great!
Marisha: I did! I did a thing! Not too bad. 11, 17, 21, 23, 25, 31, 35. 35, halved.
Matt: Half of 35, all right. As the Blight spell takes hold, you watch as the tendrils of black necrotic energy begin to carve between the scales of Thordak's body. You watch as portions of the scar in the chest split, almost like a fresh wound. A little bit of pus begins to pour forth. It's nasty.
Marisha: I take a few steps back. Can I tuck into that little broken building, a little bit? Just inside the doorway?
Matt: Sure. You are just inside the doorway right now with Percy.
Marisha: Perfect.
Matt: Actually, you can't quite get that far because you were knocked prone, so you're just barely... No, you can just get in there, so you're good.
Marisha: How are you doing?
Taliesin: I am just-- I am regretting so many things right now.
Marisha: I don't know how we got here.
Taliesin: Neither do I. I should have saved him--
Matt: Well, it is a 30-foot range.
Marisha: What?
Matt: Blight has a 30-foot range.
Marisha: Oh. Hm. Yeah.
Matt: So we're going to take that damage off.
Marisha: Okay. Well...
Sam: Can we say that she walked 30 feet closer to--
Matt: No, because she was prone at the start of her round, she can only move 15 feet.
Marisha: Okay. Well, then instead, (reverse words), take me back. I can only do 15 feet. All right. How many feet am I from the elemental?
Matt: He is 15 feet from you. Ten feet.
Sam: You could have cast it on the--
Marisha: No, I'm not going to blow a 4th-level spell on his ass. I'm going to do a 1st-level spell, though, and do a Thunderwave.
Matt: Okay. So in that right there. What level, you're going to do first level?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. That is a, what save? Constitution?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: That is a 17, so it does not succeed, I don't think.
Marisha: It does not. It takes 2d8. Ooh, that's good! Ten damage! Please kill it, please kill it!
Sam: Does my hand need to make a save, as well?
Matt: No, because she aimed the-- It's a cone, right?
Marisha: It's a radius.
Matt: Radius? So yeah, your hand would have to--
Marisha: Oh, no, sorry. It's a cube. It's a cube, 15-foot cube.
Matt: Yeah, so you can just go right there. You're fine. As you get up off the ground, the smoke, you slam your staff into the ground. The smoke around you dissipates momentarily as the shockwave hits the fire elemental. It just turns into ash, and vanishes.
Marisha: Got rid of that fucking asshole. All right. And that's all I can do.
Matt: You have 15 feet you can move.
Marisha: Okay, now I'll tuck into there.
Matt: Now you can tuck in, yeah. Since you did move that time. There you go.
Travis: There you go!
Marisha: There you go!
Matt: At the end of Keyleth's turn, Raishan's going to use a legendary action to make another attack against the wyvern. That will hit. And that will do it. With that, the wyvern gets its head ripped off by Raishan. The body plummets, the lizardman that was riding it ends up falling off. Slams into the ground.
Travis: Wilhelm scream!
Marisha: (half-hearted Wilhelm scream)
Taliesin: (half-hearted Wilhelm scream)
Taliesin: I've got shit to do in the morning, I'm not going to do it for real.
Travis: All right, fair enough.
Matt: Nine points of bludgeoning damage, as it hits the ground. It's still alive, but it's looking up at this green dragon. That ends Keyleth's turn. Jarett is currently afraid as shit.
Travis: (laughs) Because he rolled not very good.
Matt: He's going to reload, and look over. He has to roll with disadvantage against Thordak from that distance, can't get closer. Even with disadvantage, hits, on the first attack. With 16 and 18. Misses with the second one.
Travis: Crossbow?
Matt: Yeah, with the crossbow. Still manages to do 13 points of piercing damage. To Thordak, which is nice. Jarett is then going to finish moving out of visual sight of this, like, "Nope, nope, nope!" Behind the wall, (panting) "This is, uh. This is a terrible idea. They're not paying me enough for this."
Taliesin: He's not going to take a shot at the elemental while he's running away?
Matt: No, he was focused on Thordak. He was just like, (yells). That ends Jarett's turn. Gilmore's turn. Gilmore is dodging out of the outside of the cloud, and goes, "All right. Let's see if we can try this again." He's going to go ahead and move up into the building just outside of the radius.
Travis: Come on, buddy.
Matt: Looking behind where the window is busted open, he's going to blow his one 7th-level spell as a lower-level spell of Disintegrate once more up towards the chest, where it's kind of cracked open. That is a 24, 13 plus 11, that hits.
Travis: Boom! Nobody else is excited about this?
Laura: I am. I am very excited.
Taliesin: Once I hear a number, I'll be excited. I'm not saying anything until I hear a number. It's going to be, like, 11 points of damage.
Travis: 7th-level Disintegrate.
Matt: That's an additional 3d6 to that. That's 13d6
All: Oh!
Matt: Plus 40 points of force damage.
All: Whoa!
Laura: 13d6.
Travis: Now y'all are excited!
Taliesin: Now we're on board.
Travis: I'm with you, Gilmore, I'm a true fan, OG!
Matt: So it deals 88 points of damage to Thordak. (cheering)
Matt: You watch as the beam slams right into the side of Thordak's shoulder and torso area, the beam firing out from behind the broken wall. The wings extend as he's bearing down on Vax, and as it hits, the flesh kind of peels away and turns to dust in the vicinity. (pained roar) You can see he's just reeling from the pain, the mouth opens wide, the eyes go wide, as it begins to curl across. As it does, you see it. There's a bit of bone exposed there where the flesh once was. You can see scar removed and pulled back. You can see on the inside of the ribcage, just barely exposed, the outside of a glistening red crystal that is embedded in Thordak's chest.
Sam: He does have it.
Laura: It was just covered.
Travis: The skin's grown over it.
Laura: And it's being absorbed, so I'm not going to get it.
Matt: That is the end of Gilmore's turn. That brings us to Grog and Thordak.
Travis: Would you like to go first?
Matt: First let me see-- This roll is going to-- Yes. I would like to go first.
Laura: Oh, no.
Sam: Oh, no.
Laura: He just got his fire breath back.
Matt: After getting disintegrated, Thordak, who was focused on you, his attention keeps shifting from place to place. He's not focused in his current mental state. (enraged roar) And you watch as he heaves, you see the flames flickering brighter and brighter across him. (fwoosh)
Sam: Oh, god. No.
Matt: Or actually, he'd be right there.
Laura: No!
Sam: No!
Taliesin: No!
Matt: You do get an attack of opportunity against him.
Liam: Yeah. Sneak attack, on top of that.
Matt: Yeah, because you have advantage, if you hit. So go ahead and roll twice.
Liam: Got him, got him. That's 26 plus... is 27.
Matt: 27 hits. Go ahead and roll damage with the sneak attack.
Taliesin: Are you using the sword?
Liam: Yep. Yes, I am using the sword.
Taliesin: Yes, you are. Love it.
Liam: Yes, where is my ten-sided die? Ten plus six is 16. Plus all of this shit. 16, 17, 23, 29, 33, 34, 38, 42, plus Hunter's Mark. 43.
Laura: Plus 3d6 for your dragon.
Liam: I already did that.
Laura: No, you didn't.
Liam: Correct. 43, thank you. 49. 50. 51.
Matt: 51 points of damage as Thordak rushes away from you. (pained roar) As you cleave across his underside, you watch as the blood just spills out. (wings flapping, hard landing) Actually, no, he's not going to land, he's staying up in the air.
Laura: There's no plastic big enough to support him!
Travis: Yeah, he ate too much, he can't get up in the air!
Laura: He's too fat to fly!
Liam: Too many Krispy Kremes.
Matt: Thordak is currently up--
Laura: Oh shit, he's high.
Travis: You just hit Grog.
Matt: I did, yeah. Hold on a sec.
Travis: He does not appreciate that.
Matt: Grog will calm down.
Liam: Here's Jenga, right here, that dragon's coming down. Holy cow.
Laura: Oh, my. There's rocks, it's on the rocks.
Liam: It's like Mousetrap. Holy cow.
Laura: Oh my god. Grog!
Liam: Oh my gosh!
Laura: He's too big to fly, we told you!
Liam: We'll use the theater of the mind, Matt!
Travis: One little bump of that table, and it's falling down.
Laura: It's all coming down. It's like he's going to knock over everything when comes down.
Matt: He's going to fire breath. That's going to be Grog, Kima, Pike, and Gilmore.
Sam: And the hand.
Matt: And the hand.
Travis: I really don't want that to fall. It's going to break.
Matt: So I need Grog and Pike to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: All right. Come on, come on, Gil. Yes. Even better! 21.
Matt: That's still not enough.
Laura: Pike rolled a ten.
Travis: That was a 19.
Sam: The hand rolled a nine.
Laura: Oh, wait, does she get-- Wait. No.
Matt: That's 102 points of fire damage. Halved, for both of you, so 51 points of fire damage. No, no, to both of you! So 51 points of fire damage to Grog, and Pike. Pike needs to make a constitution saving throw to try and maintain concentration.
Liam: 19.
Matt: What's her constitution save?
Liam: Her modifier, so, a total of 20.
Matt: Not enough. So-- It's half the damage you take. She had to roll a natural 20. She probably couldn't have made it, yeah. So Beacon of Hope is gone. Beacon of Hope is gone. You took 51 points.
Travis: I took the 51.
Laura: Right when she needs it the most! (shriek)
Matt: Kima rolls a natural 20 on her save, so she takes half damage, at least, so Kima's still up!
Laura: If we hadn't had that Heroes' Feast, Pike would be unconscious.
Matt: Kima does not maintain her spell, unfortunately.
Laura: Pike is way low.
Liam: Pike is going to be looking out for Pike on her next turn.
Taliesin: That's cool.
Liam: Got to have that ray of sunshine, man.
Matt: Gilmore rolls a natural 20 on his reflex save.
All: Yes!
Matt: That's awesome. And thank god, so he's still unconscious. Gilmore is down and in flames right now.
Sam: Oh, god.
Travis: Wait, Gilmore is down, and is unconscious?
Matt: Unconscious.
Sam: Oh shit. I got him.
Travis: How high is Thordak in the air?
Matt: Thordak is 50 feet up.
Travis: Sam. What are you going to do?
Sam: I'm going to not let him die?
Travis: Okay. Is somebody planning to go into the fucking tunnel, on the earring?
Laura: Wha-- why?
Travis: Because I can't hit him. He's too high.
Laura: But he's-- There's crystals in his belly.
Travis: But wasn't there a tunnel that we wanted? I attach the Bloodaxe to the Chain of Returning and I throw it at his feet.
Matt: Okay. So you stand up.
Travis: Let me move 20 feet to his right rear, over here. Just in case he decides to do the Cone of Fuck Everything again. (laughter)
Travis: Then I'll throw the axe.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Reckless! 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Travis: Hey, that's a 12, that's great. Sorry, I'm blanking out. 25, 27, plus the 1d4 because I'm enlarged, which I didn't do last time. That's 30.
Matt: 30 points of damage. Good.
Travis: And I need to roll a DC of 14 to bring it back in, but it's strength.
Matt: Go ahead and roll.
Travis: That's too wild. That's off the wall. That's a 12. That's off the wall. God, nipples on a horse! Wait, do I have advantage?
Matt: While you're raging, you have advantage on strength rolls. Was it athletics or strength?
Travis: Strength. Advantage on strength checks, strength saves.
Matt: So, roll again.
Travis: 19.
Matt: You yank the axe back down, catch it in your hands. You did the extra 1d4 damage from being enlarged, right?
Travis: I did. It's that little tiny one.
Matt: That is going to end Thordak's turn. Now it is the elemental over here. It's going to (flame crackling) over next to Percy.
Travis: Ooh! Is the Second Wind a bonus action? Second Wind, the fighter thing?
Matt: That's a bonus action.
Travis: Can I do that?
Matt: Yeah. Go for it.
Travis: 1d10 plus fighter level, which is one.
Matt: 1d10 plus one.
Travis: Nine. Ten! Ten hit points.
Matt: Ten hit points, all right. All righty. Let's see. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to shoot him. I'm going to reach back and I'm going to get a poison arrow.
Matt: It's your third and final poison arrow?
Laura: No, I've got six poison arrows. That one missed.
Matt: It just barely misses Raishan on the way.
Laura: Sorry! Poison arrow. No, it's okay, it's good. That is a 27.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: 15 plus four lightning. Does he have anybody near him? Does he see me? Am I sneak attacking?
Travis: He's in the middle of the motherfucking sky.
Matt: You're not sneak attacking because nobody nearby can hit him.
Laura: Plus four because that's two for being a dragon. Okay, so you know. And then the poison arrow thing.
Matt: Right. He makes his save.
Laura: My last attack. I'm going to try using my last dragon-slaying arrow that I have.
Matt: Okay! This is the one you've had. This is the one you've kept this whole time, right?
Laura: It's got Thordak's name on it.
Matt: You reach back and you pull and there's two.
Laura: There's two?
Matt: There's two in there.
Liam: Do it.
Laura: Why do I have two?
Matt: You pull one out, look, and there's a small piece of paper attached to it.
Laura: Ooh! I rip it off and tuck it in my shirt. Pull. 21? No!
Matt: It arcs into the darkness, past the clouds and out of the Cloudtop.
Laura: Goddamn it.
Travis: It's okay!
Matt: You still have movement if you want to do something else.
Laura: Is the building on fire?
Matt: There's small flames here and there, but there is a wyvern up above the wall now that seems to have noticed you as you went around the corner and fired a few arrows.
Laura: Can I use my bonus to hide? From him?
Matt: You don't have anything to hide behind. It notices you over the side. You can move, if you want to, and try to do that.
Laura: The building is on fire? Can I move and try to duck into the building? I see a hole that's not on fire.
Matt: You could move around here and duck inside there.
Laura: Yeah. I'll try to hide in the building because wyverns, he's so dumb.
Matt: Go ahead and roll stealth.
Laura: How about that? That is a 14.
Matt: That's a 14? All righty. I forgot to do the fire elemental attacks against you, Percival, from earlier.
Taliesin: I had an environmental attack?
Matt: Fire elemental attack that came over there and attacked you. It was during Thordak's turn; I forgot to do that. It gets two touch attacks against you. That is 13.
Taliesin: That does not hit.
Matt: That's cocked. Natural 20.
Taliesin: That hits.
Travis: Yes! Oh. Not your natural 20.
Taliesin: Yeah, not mine.
Matt: 17 points of fire damage, halved to eight, and you are on fire.
Taliesin: Yeah, oh.
Travis: And you are on fire.
Taliesin: Does stop, drop and roll work in--
Matt: You have to use an action to get rid of it. So yes. And every turn, you'll take 1d10 fire damage until you get rid of it. All right, so, finishing Vex's turn, it is now Vax and Kima's. Kima's going to make a constitution saving throw. Kima makes it and is unaffected. Well, she's unaffected by the poison anyway because she was part of the Heroes' Feast.
Laura: Oh, right, that's poison. So she's immune.
Matt: Yeah, Kima is angrily going to rush over to Gilmore.
Sam: (pouring drink)
Marisha: It's never not weird.
Sam: (contented sigh)
Liam: It's really on Matt for there being no pee break.
Matt: It's true. It's true. Kima is going to go ahead and Lay Hands on Gilmore.
Marisha: Oh yeah, Kima.
Matt: She's going to heal him for 35. All righty, so as Kima rushes over, still staring at Thordak up in the air, (wing flapping) she hand vaults over the destroyed wall, runs over to Gilmore's unconscious burning form and, moving her hand out of the way to put the flames out, pats him down and as her hand glows and she slams onto his chest and you watch (gasping) the breath come to him. As his eyes flicker open, she goes, "It's not your time yet, buddy." Picks up her sword and angrily looks over towards Thordak again. She can move five more feet that way, that's as much as she can get this turn. But that's her action. Pike's turn.
Liam: Vax's turn.
Matt: Sorry, Vax's turn.
Liam: I'm going to fly straight at Thordak's flank. You can put me, well, don't actually put me there, because he'll topple.
Matt: Yeah, but you're up there.
Liam: But I'm going to attack twice, once with the dragonslayer sword, once with Whisper, so here's the dragonslayer sword. Natural 20! (cheering)
Liam: Sneak attack damage!
Matt: Okay. So you have the sword and Whisper both attuned?
Liam: Yeah. But this is the sword.
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Laura: He's going to use a legendary. I can see it on his damn face.
Liam: He can't against damage, can he?
Liam: All right, well, here we go.
Matt: Can't legendary resist against damage.
Laura: You can't?
Matt: No, it's only against saving throws.
Liam: Yeah. So seven. I'll save the bonus for later. Seven plus the three.
Sam: Roll high. Roll strong.
Liam: Seven, eight, 14, 18, 18 plus all of this. And I'm smiting, by the way. 18, 21, 24, 26, 30, 32, 35, 39 plus Hunter's Mark is 42, plus Divine Smite-- 46. 48 times two is 96.
Matt: Without the bonus.
Liam: Without the bonus, so a hundred and... two.
Matt: 102 points of damage against Thordak.
Laura: On your first attack!
Liam: For the second attack-- good, this is, yeah, it hits, 16 plus, 20, 20, 25. This is Whisper, so that is one plus-- is nine plus psychic damage...
Laura: Can't you just attack twice with the dragon sword?
Liam: No.
Laura: Why not?
Liam: Hand, hand.
Laura: Oh.
Liam: 16 for Whisper.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: And I will use my last action, so that was action, bonus action-- last action to disengage and fly down and land by Kima and Gilmore, this side of the building. Closest to me.
Matt: Right here?
Liam: On the ground, even, if I can, yeah. Behind the column in the corner by Gilmore's head, I think.
Matt: Okay. So as you rush up, sword at the side, jam it to the hilt to the side of Thordak's haunch and upper torso area, using the momentum behind you, you continue to push forward and yank the blade around like a can opener. Just cutting through the scales and hide. (pained yelling) And as you tear through, the blade, it comes out the other side, cutting through the flesh as you spin around with your wings still out in front, you spin with Whisper and slam it into the open wound with the exposed crystal, hitting the crystal with the Vestige. (shattering) There's a flash of light, and you continue downward, landing off to that side. As you turn around and look up, you watch as the crystal begins to crack. (shattering) (gasping)
Sam: It's got a weak spot. Weak spot.
Marisha: Oh shit.
Liam: Pretty sure I just had an orgasm. (laughter)
Sam: In game, or right here?
Taliesin: Could be both now, actually. (laughter)
Matt: All right. That's your turn.
Sam: You've done your thing.
Liam: Take it, take it. Pike cheat sheet, here we are.
Laura: Pike cheat sheet.
Matt: All righty, that brings us to Pike's turn.
Laura: Pike.
Matt: Pike has to make-- nothing because of the poison.
Laura: Heroes' Feast?
Matt: Yeah, so, what's Pike doing?
Laura: Pike is going to cast Heal on herself at seventh level. So she's going to heal herself for 80 points.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: So she's got 84 points now.
Liam: She was low.
Laura: She was super low.
Taliesin: She can take a death, remember. She can actually take a death. But yeah.
Laura: Okay, but then she can't heal people. And then is anybody injured around her?
Sam: Everybody's injured around her.
Laura: Gilmore's still pretty low, right?
Matt: Gilmore's not too great.
Laura: Okay, then she's going to run, she's going to cast Healing Word on Gilmore.
Matt: Okay, he's within range.
Laura: At second level that she can do it at?
Matt: Right, so that's 2d4 plus five.
Laura: So that's, oh, right, because now shit's gone.
Matt: Yeah, Beacon of Hope is gone.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And she's going to use her movement to run back into the building with Scanlan.
Matt: That's as far as she can get, right there. Okay, that ends Pike's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Oh. I'll, through the earring, say, Grog, you want to go for a ride, or no?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Okay, action, I will arc around and Lightning Bolt the dragon real quick. With the hand cone, I don't know if that makes any difference. No, it doesn't. It might.
Marisha: It can't hurt. It's got to save against that shit.
Matt: Yeah, you can see it from there. It's high enough in the sky. You don't have to arc around, you can go (magic shooting noise). Okay, makes his save.
Sam: Yeah, great, so what, I still roll damage and he takes half?
Matt: Yeah. He takes half.
Sam: Okay. That's fine. 23. So, 12, 11, something like that.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Great.
Matt: 11 points of lightning damage.
Marisha: Good job, buddy. Man, good thing we gave you that flute.
Laura: I know, right, fucking A, Scanlan!
Sam: We're doing great, guys, nobody's dead yet.
Taliesin: It's so great that you did that 11 points.
Marisha: Yeah, wait until we're-- he's on the other side of the continent. It could like--
Sam: And as the bonus action-- The Hand, who is still alive. He took 102 points of damage, but is still alive.
Travis: Bigby's Hand is?
Sam: Yes, because he has my hit points. So he'll go over and lift up Grog by the scruff of his neck and go as high and mighty as he can. He can move like 120 feet, I think.
Travis: Like a fucking puppy.
Matt: You can move him up to 60 feet per turn.
Sam: What? 120! Wait.
Matt: No, the spell's range is 120. Per turn, as a bonus action, it can move at 60 feet. (laughter)
Sam: Well, knowing that, I'll just punch the dragon.
Matt: Okay. So the hand (whoosh) goes up. Punch him. Roll a spell attack.
Sam: Nope.
Matt: Whiffs.
Laura: Wait, you're close to Pike. She uses War God's Blessing to increase your attack by-- can she do that? Is it technically an attack that she could add?
Matt: Let me check real fast. Let me see here.
Laura: Was it really low?
Sam: I mean, you don't know.
Matt: Makes an attack roll.
Laura: So yeah? So, do I roll the ten, or is it just a plus ten bonus?
Matt: Plus ten bonus.
Sam: Yeah, 23.
Matt: 23 just hits. (cheering)
Sam: It does hit! 6d8.
Matt: 8d8.
Sam: No, it's usually 4d8, I think.
Matt: 4d8, and you cast it, it's usually fifth level, you cast it as a seventh level.
Sam: So it's 4d8, so now it's 6d8.
Matt: It goes up by 2d8 every level higher.
Sam: Oh, shit!
Laura: Oh my god. 4d8?
Sam: No, 8d8.
Laura: 8d8?!
Matt: Yes. Just punched the dragon in the face with Bigby's Hand.
Sam: Pike happened. Oh my god, Ashley is the MVP tonight. (laughter)
Sam: Okay. Not huge, but okay. It's okay. 36.
Laura: That's great!
Travis: That's great!
Marisha: That's better than 11.
Sam: Yeah. Hey, I just dealt 47 points of damage! That's respectable! (approving murmurs)
Travis: How's that Vestige treating you?
Matt: Top of the next round, Percy. First you take... You take ten, five points of fire damage.
Sam: (whispering) Laura.
Matt: That is terrifying. Oh my god.
Laura: Thanks for getting my attention for that. (laughter)
Matt: Goddamn it.
Sam: That will inspire you.
Liam: Somebody gets an inspiration die. (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to spider-climb-- I'm going to stay within striking distance, I'm not going to disengage from the jerk, but I'm going to climb up on the wall above him, if that's okay.
Matt: I'd say yeah, you can do that. The wall next to him, there's nothing above him.
Taliesin: Like, oh, I'm shooting at the television. Here.
Matt: Here? So you can move around and get on the wall.
Taliesin: Yeah, like climb up there and be sideways. I'm going to pull out Bad News, I'm going to try something new. I'm seeing that big spike, there's a big metal spike stuck in his chest right now?
Matt: No, there's no spike. There's a crack in the crystal that's exposed.
Taliesin: Is there still not a metal pole?
Matt: There's no metal pole.
Taliesin: I thought he got hit by a thing.
Matt: No, he got hit by a Vax.
Taliesin: Okay, I thought he also got hit by a thing. But that's okay. I'm going to try something weird. I'm going to spend a grit for advantage on this shot, because--
Sam: "Constructing a pole vault."
Taliesin: I'm going to add two points of Cabal's Ruin to this.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What does that do? What? You have a thing?
Taliesin: I'm going to spend two points of Cabal's Ruin. I have a thing.
Matt: You can spend them once you roll to hit.
Taliesin: Oh, I can wait until after?
Matt: Wait until you see you hit it, then you can spend the points.
Taliesin: Well, that's even better. So first shot is a 27 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: So I'm going to drop two-- I've got the little thing running through my glove, I've got the wire. I'm just going to let go of the little grounding wire and see what happens. I'll hold onto the barrel and pray. Let's add 2d6 to that. Is that right? Yeah.
Liam: I really like this spider-climb guy.
Taliesin: I know, I'm digging this-- augh, it's okay. Yeah, this is okay. 22 points of damage plus two points of electrical damage.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Did you roll your Cabal's Ruin thing?
Taliesin: I did, yeah, I did, I'm going to do that again.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn two more points-- Well, I'm going to wait. That's really cool, that I can wait.
Laura: That was the softest little roll.
Taliesin: I hate it when that happens. I know, that was the worst roll I've ever done. That's okay. It's 22. Just hits?
Matt: 22 misses.
Taliesin: 22 misses?! That's fine. I'm not going to burn any Cabal. So that's fine.
Matt: The first blast fires off... It impacts the side of Thordak. You watch the little charge of energy shoot through. Second shot, however, goes a little wide, as you feel the fire still burning up the front of your torso. It's enough to distract you from your actual aiming.
Taliesin: That was very cool, though.
Marisha: You can do that.
Taliesin: Once I set it up, I can arc a charge to the bullet.
Matt: Okay, that ends your turn, Percy?
Taliesin: That ends my turn. I may drop back behind-- No, I'm good, I'm good.
Matt: At this point, the ground quakes beneath--
Taliesin: That was a terrible roll. Terrible roll.
Marisha: Yes, it was.
Taliesin: Snake eyes was not cool.
Matt: No, he can't do the same twice in a row, so it's going to do another magma erupt. (laughs) Beneath where Gilmore is, the ground splits open-- (groans)
Matt: --and another burst of magma billows out from underneath. Going against Kima, Vax, that's where most of them are clustered. Kima, Vax, and Gilmore. I need you to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Yeah, evasion for me.
Taliesin: Walls hate NPCs.
Liam: With advantage. 18 for me.
Matt: 18 for you. All right, that's okay. Gilmore rolls a--
Laura: Natural 20?
Matt: 15, which is enough. Kima rolls a natural 20-- (cheering)
Matt: So half as much damage to each of you guys. You take none.
Liam: I'm sitting pretty. I mean, I'm really rough.
Laura: Don't say that out loud.
Sam: Have you taken any damage?
Matt: That's 21, that's ten points of fire damage to both Kima and Gilmore.
Taliesin: Halved?
Matt: That was halved.
Liam: I am Borishnakoffing all over this battlefield.
Taliesin: Somebody's going to dive into that hole.
Matt: As that bursts off, you also watch as the airship Deera coasts around this way and takes three shots. (cheering)
Matt: Misses. Hits! And misses. So three of them shoot past. The third one impacts for seven points of piercing damage to Thordak. You watch as two other wyverns get cut down from the edges of the ship, slamming into the ground near you. Their arms curl up, and the wings fall limply to the side. You also hear a slamming sound as from a nearby wall, you watch as a fire giant that has climbed over the edge of the wall.
Laura: Why would you bring more things onto the battlefield?!
Matt: It charges into the fray, this way.
Marisha: Wait, over what wall, over what wall?
Matt: On the outside of the side of the Cloudtop.
Sam: Is this one of the fire giants we've seen?
Marisha: Yeah, is this one that Zahra and Kash were guarding?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Can I do it?
Matt: You barely have a view of it, so yes, you can.
Laura: Do I have a view of it?
Matt: No, you're inside the room.
Marisha: Ooh, yeah, 25.
Matt: You see it, this one does not appear to be coming from the direction they were.
Laura: That's good, that's good. That's not a damn it, that's a good.
Marisha: Means they're still alive. Hopefully?
Matt: With that, it is Raishan's turn. Raishan gets her breath back.
Travis: (singing) Girl, get your breath back.
Matt: Raishan rears back, (hissing roar) releases the same poisonous torrent toward Thordak.
Travis: Halitosis is a bitch.
Sam: We have exactly one ally dragon in this fight right now.
Travis: I will fucking-- I will pop all your knuckles.
Sam: We do! She's great.
Liam: The last thing we'll do in this fight is all turn on you.
Marisha: The last thing we do is die as we see a bronze dragon show up.
Laura: Yeah, we're all dead on the ground, and Scanlan's like, yay!
Matt: He takes half damage as the poison cloud billows up, (cough, sinister growl).
Sam: Aw, he's still crazy.
Matt: "You're still around us? That's okay. There's still time... to eat." Raishan is going to fly past and land on the top of the roof, which nearly crumbles. Nearly crumbles above you, Keyleth, you feel stones (crash) around you, and you see Raishan landing on the ceiling of this damaged building as parts of it begin to collapse.
Laura: Look how little she is.
Matt: That ends Raishan's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Liam: Go, girl.
Marisha: So she's on top of me, more or less? I'm going to turn around and Tidal Wave this elemental behind me.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I was going to say, if I'm caught in the corner of this, will this extinguish me?
Marisha: Extinguishes all flames.
Matt: It does. Wait, so what spell are you doing? You're doing--
Travis: Tidal Wave.
Laura: Is that one, like, still up or something? Is it like a concentration that just lasts?
Marisha: No, the other one was Tsunami. That one is like the big daddy version of this one. Yeah.
Matt: So, Percy, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: Can I autofail if I just want to be-- Oh, that's right, for half damage.
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: All right. Dex saving throw. That's an 11.
Matt: So roll 4d8 bludgeoning damage. Percy takes, and Percy is knocked prone, but is no longer on fire.
Taliesin: I just fall on the ground, I assume.
Marisha: Sorry, Percy. I'm saving your life, man!
Matt: However, the unscathed fire elemental is turned to mist. Water pushing past and doing way too much damage for him to--
Marisha: Is this damage for Percy? 21.
Travis: Thanks, Keyleth. (laughter)
Liam: Legitimately though!
Matt: But a full health fire elemental is turned to mist and is immediately destroyed. Actually, the force of it blows out the rocks from this side of the wall. And the wall, the wall here actually gets knocked open to that side as the tidal wave pushes out. Keyleth, do you want to move or stay where you are?
Marisha: I'll pop myself out of the door a little bit.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What's that other thing that you've been doing to him? That he has to save on every once in a while?
Laura: Oh, Contagion?
Marisha: Contagion, he has to do that at the end of his turn. Did he do it at the last...?
Matt: He did, yes. It was a 13 plus...
Marisha: So he's saved against two or one?
Matt: He's only done two, so far, since you cast it.
Marisha: He's only done-- I know about one.
Matt: No, because you didn't do it your first turn, you did it your second turn, so yeah, twice.
Laura: Yeah, he's definitely done it twice.
Marisha: And he's saved against both? Are you sure?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: But are you sure?
Matt: Yes. (laughter)
Matt: Is that the end of your turn?
Marisha: Do I see Gilmore?
Matt: You, from your current perspective, you do not.
Marisha: Then, yeah.
Matt: Okay. Jarett, who is currently scared out of his wits.
Travis: Get your shit together, man.
Sam: Jarett, do you need some suude?
Travis: Spice?
Matt: Ha, He's like, "What? No, why would you..."
Sam: Well, you look crazy right now.
Matt: "Look at that!"
Sam: It's like a Thursday.
Matt: And he goes and takes two more shots, with disadvantage against. That's a miss. Second shot, disadvantage. Is a miss. Both shots firing off.
Travis: We'll remember this. Your annual review's coming up.
Sam: Needs improvement.
Matt: Gilmore, who's now conscious, doesn't have a whole lot else as far as attack spells go, is going to attempt to stand up. "All right, that was--" (groaning)
Liam: Matt, why would you!
Sam: He flew 30 feet.
Matt: I can count that.
Travis: No!
Taliesin: No!
Matt: Then stop giving me shit.
Liam: Why would you!
Matt: As he gets up, he leans back and backs out of the rubble, takes in his surroundings, sees the magma receding from the crack in the ground. "This is... You guys bring me to the greatest places. Oh, he's not looking too good." And releases a Lightning Bolt.
Marisha: He's not looking too good?
Matt: He's not looking too good. And he's going to release a Lightning Bolt at fifth level. A 5th-level Lightning Bolt. A 5th-level Lightning Bolt. Thordak makes his save. And that will be, come on, dice. 49. Half that will be 24 points of lightning damage against Thordak. That ends Gilmore's turn. Grog and Thordak.
Travis: Oh God. I'm going first.
Matt: All right, what are you doing?
Travis: Because it's so insignificant. I'm going to attach the Bloodaxe to the Chain of Returning and throw it at his foot.
Taliesin: You could go in the hole, just saying.
Travis: I thought we didn't care about the hole?
Taliesin: I care about the hole.
Travis: Grog loves going in holes.
Laura: Just do what you're going to do.
Travis: All right, I throw the Bloodaxe.
Sam: You can also hold your attack until he's closer or something?
Travis: Reckless! Yeah, that's not going to happen. 31.
Matt: 31.
Travis: It's not Great Weapon Master. That's a 12. That's good. Two points of necrotic for 27 and I'm enlarged! And that's another one.
Sam: Hey, 28 is great!
Travis: Hey, matzoh ball in your face.
Matt: That's awesome.
Travis: And then I've got to pull it back.
Taliesin: With advantage.
Travis: Seven plus 14, woo! Got it.
Matt: Yeah. You pull the axe back.
Sam: You got a bonus action or something?
Laura: You could attack again?
Travis: No I can't, I can only throw it once.
Matt: Thordak is going to swoop in.
Sam: You could heal or something? You've got potions and shit, don't you?
Laura: Can't you hold your other attack until he moves?
Travis: I don't have another attack.
Matt: Let's see here.
Liam: He's hesitating.
Travis: It takes my whole action. I get two attacks in an action.
Sam: He's hovering. God, he's going to his other Dungeons & Dragons game! (laughter)
Laura: He's like, welp, I'm over this.
Sam: Oh God! That's dangerously close.
Matt: I know.
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: Right there, Gilmore just behind.
Laura: Gilmore is up his butt.
Matt: Raishan right there. Lands right up next to Pike.
Laura: No!
Matt: Everyone else in that vicinity.
Laura: Oh no, that's Pike and Scanlan isn't it?
Sam: Oh boy.
Matt: Yup. And (inhales).
Laura: What? Why would you do that to Pike?!
Matt: Rolled a five on that. Because Pike keeps healing everybody. That'll be towards Jarett, Scanlan and Pike. I need you guys to make dex saves.
Sam: I'll Cutting Words this.
Matt: How many more bardic inspiration dice do you have by the way?
Sam: I have used only three. That means I have three left.
Matt: You've inspired one and you've Cutting Words twice? Correct, all right, cool. This is your fourth?
Sam: Yep. So I will Cutting Words that up with a poem I will make up on the spot. Roses are red, Violets are blue, I'm a gnome, and you're an asshole. (laughter)
Matt: Roll a d12. What was Pike's dexterity save again?
Liam: Oh no, it's this die.
Sam: Oh, you can reduce that by one point, Matt Mercer.
Matt: (laughing) Oh no. What did you get? Nah, roll your dexterity saving throw.
Sam: My dexterity saving throw. Terrible, 15.
Matt: Jarett does not make it either.
Liam: Big eight, big eight.
Matt: All right, well.
Laura: One of our Jaeger controllers did worse than our other--
Liam: You shut your pie hole! Hear me, half-elf?
Matt: Well, with the damage reduction from Scanlan that's only 100 points of fire damage.
Taliesin: Cut in half.
Matt: Cut in half, so that's 50 to each of you. Jarett is practically immolated. His unconscious body hits the ground, crisp, smoking. He's currently going into shock and is in a really bad place right now.
Sam: Where's Pike? What's Pike doing?
Laura: Pike is-- Wait, minus 50. She's at 50 minus--she's at 34 points right now.
Taliesin: In combat range of a dragon.
Travis: I never finished my turn, so can I use my movement now? Since we're on the same, can I chase him back to where he landed? 50 feet and how far does that get me?
Matt: Yeah, you can get right up behind him right there.
Laura: Can you attack him now?
Travis: Nah. Nah. Actually, my bonus action is still there and I am frenzied.
Matt: Yes, you are.
Travis: Can I attack?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: I'll do it Reckless.
Matt: I'll let you do it. It all happened at once.
Travis: 29?
Matt: 29 hits.
Travis: Yeah, not Great Weapon Master. Nine plus two, 26, 29. 29.
Matt: 29? All righty. That ends your turn.
Travis: That does.
Sam: Matt, in the interest of honor, should I roll a concentration saving throw?
Matt: Oh yes, you should. Sorry, thank you.
Sam: I rolled a-- what do I add to it?
Matt: It's a constitution saving throw, so you add your constitution save.
Sam: Constitution? So 18.
Matt: With that, Bigby's Hand fades, the spell knocked asunder. Thank you for reminding me of that. So that comes to end that turn.
Marisha: He has to roll a save.
Matt: Yes, he does. And that is a seven plus 16.
Marisha: Does he still have disadvantage on these?
Matt: No, he doesn't have disadvantage on every save, just the one. He was Cutting Words'd, you're right.
Marisha: Yeah. He has to roll under a five.
Matt: Same thing. So with that, the third save is made, Contagion.
Sam: At least it won't eat up my Cutting Words any more.
Marisha: It's resting in peace with my 8th-level spell and her dragon-slaying arrow. They're in a puddle somewhere.
Matt: It's a rough couple rounds.
Laura: Did I see where that dragon-slaying arrow sailed off to?
Matt: With the sheer amount of clouds of ash and blackness in the air, you have no idea where it went, I'm afraid. At the end of Thordak's turn, the wyvern that had seen you, it did spot you. Your stealth was not very good. It leaps down into the back of the building and (growls) coming towards you. The wyvern's going to make a multi-attack. The first is a bite attack against you. That's a natural one. Does not hit you. The stinger, however, is a natural 20. Wow! So that is for 12 points of piercing damage to you and I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Poison immunity.
Taliesin: Poison immunity.
Matt: That's right. So no effect.
Laura: 12 points of damage.
Matt: The rider is going to swing at you with a heavy club and then a javelin. That is a 16. What's your AC?
Laura: 21.
Matt: Nope. And no. Misses you with both. You're just too quick for him. The giant sees Percy lying on the ground and goes (yells). With its giant two-handed sword, it's going to make two attacks against Percy with advantage. 19, so that's 30 for the first one.
Taliesin: Oh, that just hits.
Matt: And a 22 with the second.
Taliesin: That also just hits.
Matt: All right. So you take 28 points of slashing damage from each hit.
Taliesin: So that's 28 times two.
Laura: 56.
Taliesin: 56. All right, that's fine. I blame you for all of this.
Sam: We're getting in flute range soon.
Taliesin: I'll be hearing about it from the kitchen. It'll be great. I'll be working on my new character.
Matt: All right. That brings us to--
Sam: Raishan?
Matt: No. That brings us to Vex's turn.
Laura: I can't see anything about where I am.
Matt: You're back here right now.
Laura: Yeah, I can't see that on the screen, so I don't know.
Liam: Other side of that building.
Laura: Can I use disengage to get away from the wyvern?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: I'm going to do that and I'll run out somewhere. Where's the laser pointer?
Liam: I can't see where Vex is at all.
Laura: I just have no clue where I am.
Matt: Well, I have you right here because you actually fell and your base came off and I glued it together when you were talking.
Laura: No way! Oh, I thought you said the face.
Sam: He has crazy glue on his person?
Matt: Like any good dungeon master should. So you're inside this building right now.
Laura: If I'm hasted, does that affect my broom?
Matt: No.
Laura: So I just run out.
Matt: So you just run out this way. You have a lot of movement speed, so you're still out here at half movement.
Laura: Okay. Then I'm going to run through the building and under Raishan and shoot up at Thordak from through the building.
Liam: Ditch the broom.
Matt: Go for it. Make your shots.
Laura: Okay. Oh no, that one doesn't hit. Okay, second one. Okay, that hits. That's 29.
Matt: 29. All right.
Laura: Can I do that with a poison arrow? I should have said that before.
Matt: You should have said that before.
Laura: Never mind. 18, that's with four lightning. I do get sneak attack right now. 15 more.
Matt: Okay. That was the first roll. Second attack?
Laura: Yeah. Should I do the second dragon attack? I'm so scared to use the dragon arrow.
Travis: There is no tomorrow. There's a giant fucking dragon and a fire giant.
Liam: Pop his head off in one shot. Go.
Laura: I'm going to use my dragon arrow. My last one. Oh, good! That was so close but it definitely hit.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh God. Okay. 17 with one lightning.
Matt: One lightning damage. All right.
Laura: So three more. And how many do I add for the dragon arrow?
Matt: I'm looking it up right now, actually.
Sam: Ooh!
Laura: I think it's 10d6. I think.
Sam: Is it really?
Laura: Or 6d10. It's one of those two.
Sam: 10d20.
Laura: 10d20. 12d12.
Travis: 100d100s. And the universe implodes.
Matt: DC 17 constitution saving throw.
Laura: He gets to save?
Matt: Yes, he does. Which he makes. So he takes half damage. So it's 6d10.
Laura: Oh! Whoa. That's okay, I'll just roll this, 'cause this is easier.
Liam: 6d10.
Laura: Oh, that was just 6d10. 32 halved.
Matt: 32 halved. All right.
Sam: Worth it.
Matt: You release the first arrow, which goes and strikes Thordak in the upper shoulder wing area. (growls) He turns around and goes to face you, the arms and wings open angrily. As you release the dragon-slaying arrow, it goes and hits the side where the chest is currently disintegrated and exposed. As the arrow, using the power of Fenthras behind it, slams into the crystal, the crystal shatters. As it breaks, you watch as Thordak goes (crazed laughter) and the form begins to slowly shrink.
Travis: Oh shit!
Matt: (growling) He seems to be grinning and laughing through the pain as the swollen, primordial dragon form of Thordak begins to slowly wither and wither.
Sam: You have another model?
Laura: What?!
Sam: And it's even bigger.
Laura: Look at the puny little fuck.
Sam: He's a little puny baby.
Matt: That's still a pretty fucking huge dragon. (laughter)
Sam: He's so sad.
Matt: Now there are hanging folds of dragon hide skin. The form shrunk, but portions still are sagging off of it.
Laura: Can I duck around the side so I'm in the building? So I'm not in the opening. Yeah.
Marisha: Are we going to try and take Raishan out as well?
Matt: At the end of your turn, he's going to use two legendary actions to wing attack. Trying to whip the wings much faster now due to the somewhat dire circumstances. I need Pike, and currently just Pike, to make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Come on, Pike. For all the marbles.
Laura: 17.
Matt: Nope. Pike takes 20 points of bludgeoning damage and eight points of fire damage reduced to four.
Laura: So she's got ten points left.
Sam: She's a perfect ten. Always was.
Matt: He's going to fly up--
Sam: Does Pike get an attack of opportunity?
Travis: I do!
Laura: And Pike does!
Matt: There we go. You both do.
Travis: Has his AC changed with his different size? You don't know? Reckless, Great Weapon Master. Natural 20.
Matt: Really?
Travis: Yeah, on the first roll.
Laura: And Pike rolled a 32.
Sam: Jesus. What is she attacking with?
Laura: Her Mace of Disruption.
Sam: Yes, she is.
Matt: So go ahead and roll damage for both of them.
Travis: I also have brutal critical which at thirteenth level, you roll two additional damage dice.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Taliesin: Which you then double, don't you?
Matt: No. You add those two. So roll the damage first, and then double the dice.
Laura: And then she gets Divine Strike, right? On her attack.
Matt: Correct.
Travis: 28. So I double that?
Matt: You double the dice. Including the d4 and d6 from your weapon and your enlarged status.
Travis: Right. So that's 16 doubled, 32. So then, that's an 11. So 47.
Matt: Nice, and Pike's?
Laura: Pike rolled-- fuck. 18. 19! It was 19.
Matt: Okay. Perfect. You both strike, as the now-diminished form of Thordak begins to pull backward, eyes looking around. The piercing star-like white light of the eyes seems to have slowly recoiled into a glowing reddish-orange. And you can now see where the crystal once was in the chest, there is just a gaping hole where bits of flesh and dragon muscle are hanging out, occasionally slopping out of the wound. He's pulling back. All right.
Liam: I'm up.
Matt: Yep.
Liam: I'm going to arc up and land on his head. I'm just going to unload all three: action, action, bonus action, into his head.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: First attack probably misses, that's 17?
Matt: Misses.
Liam: Second attack hits. That's 24.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Third attack with the dragon sword is a 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Liam: So, with Whisper. (counting) That's 45 with Whisper. And then with the dragonslayer sword. Eight plus six plus 3d6. So 21. What did I say before that?
Laura: 45.
Travis: 45.
Liam: So 21 plus 45 is-- So 66.
Laura: It's 45 for the first attack, 21 for the second.
Matt: Yeah. Okay.
Liam: And I will stay there.
Matt: You're going to stay there? All right. So you are currently up here, in Thordak's face.
Laura: This is going to be bad if we have to take Raishan out.
Matt: Cool, so that ends Vax's turn. Kima--
Sam: Oh yeah, the wyvern.
Matt: That wyvern just can't seem to keep itself standing.
Sam: That was really good handwork, I didn't catch any of it. That I got.
Matt: She's just going to move towards Raishan. She's going to move over to this wall.
Liam: Sorry. Also, four for Hunter's Mark on the second attack as well.
Matt: Okay. That's ends Kima's turn, going over there. Pike's turn. Pike is knocked prone from the spell earlier.
Laura: She's still alive. She gets up.
Liam: Girl.
Laura: (singing) She's going to Guiding Bolt up the butt! At what level do we have left?
Liam: So many levels. All the levels. Pike cheat sheet. Five!
Laura: She's going to cast it at a five.
Liam: Plus 1d6 every level above second level. So 3d6.
Laura: 4d6. Plus 4d6. So 8d6. She has to roll the attack first, or just straight-up?
Matt: Well, she has to roll to attack with her spell bonus, her spell attack bonus.
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Laura: All right. So 8d6.
Liam: You can do it, Pike. All the way from New York City.
Laura: Five. Seven. Eight. Ten. 16. 18. Another two. 26.
Matt: 26? Nice. As the guiding bolt slams into the side of Thordak's side, you can see this glimmering beacon of light. The next attack against Thordak has advantage.
Laura: Oh good. And then she's going to Healing Word again? Yeah, she's pretty fucked, so she'll Healing Word at second level, that's her last 2nd-level...
Matt: So 2d4 plus five. To herself?
Laura: And that's just to one person? Yeah, so she'll... so she's going to do that to Jarett.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: She would heal Jarett over herself?
Laura: It's Pike. I'm being honest, she would heal Jarett.
Travis: I don't know why we're wasting that on Jarett.
Matt: Jarett went and got you illicit drugs, Scanlan!
Travis: I mean, he had a great accent, but fuck. You remember the cryptkeeper? Jarett's going to those auditions tomorrow.
Laura: So that's eight.
Matt: Eight? Okay, so Jarett is healed up eight points.
Liam: He is Groot.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Where the terrible burns are, most of them seem to heal, or at least scar to a point where he comes to consciousness. He's like, "What happened?"
Laura: "Jarett, you need to get up and fight."
Matt: "Right." Grabs the crossbow to the side, leans up. So was that Pike's turn?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right, was that Pike's turn? Scanlan, you're up.
Taliesin: Like slap the charred skin off his face. Get back in there!
Liam: The whole face comes off.
Sam: Shit. I will use my action to pour my superior healing potion into Pike's mouth.
Liam: That's love.
Laura: "Scanlan, I can do that myself."
Sam: Oh wait. First, I aerate it. (laughter)
Laura: So that's 8d4?
Sam: I don't know. What is it?
Laura: That is 8d4. Do you do that or do I?
Sam: Do I roll it, or does she?
Matt: You roll it, that's fine.
Sam: It's just a bunch of d4s? 8d4s? Oh my god. This is so many. Six. 13. 16. 20, plus something. Plus six, 26.
Laura: Okay, that's good.
Sam: Who else can I see? Nobody. Jarett's alive, right?
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Now as my bonus action...
Travis: Whether he wants to be when he sees a mirror...
Sam: Well shit, I have an action, I can do anything. I can do anything!
Travis: Yeah, you could play the fucking flute.
Sam: What? What flute?
Liam: What are you saving it for?
Sam: I play a shawm.
Laura: We're going to have to fight Raishan in a second.
Marisha: This is far from over.
Taliesin: And whatever's in that pit. And whatever's in that pit.
Sam: What? How's she doing? Is she okay?
Laura: She's at 36.
Sam: It's not great. All right, I will attack the dragon. Bigby's Hand at level six. Why not?
Matt: So you recast Bigby's Hand?
Matt: All righty.
Liam: Give the people what they want.
Sam: That is not what they want.
Laura: Hey, he's got a hole in the middle of his chest.
Sam: I'll poke it.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a spell attack.
Sam: Nope. Did Pike help me out?
Laura: Yes! She casts her last War God's Blessing. Add a ten to that.
Matt: So plus ten to that.
Sam: 23.
Matt: 23 hits. So that would be?
Sam: 6d8. Gimme.
Liam: Here comes the gnome.
Taliesin: Here's 4d8. 5d8. 6d8.
Sam: 27.
Matt: 27? Nice.
Laura: Every time!
Matt: All right. Percival. Unless you want to move, Scanlan.
Sam: I moved to Pike to pour stuff in her. That's all. I did not mean that in any weird way.
Matt: Percival. Your turn.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to, for my bonus action, I'm going to down a greater, which is 4d4, I believe?
Matt: 4d4 plus four, yeah.
Laura: Did you add four to your 26 when you healed her? Or did you just roll--
Taliesin: I'm dying less. I'm going to stand up. I'm technically engaged with this bloody thing, aren't I?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm just going to-- There's little I can do other than just say, please, somebody fix this, and I'm going to take two shots at the red dragon. First shot with Bad News. 23?
Matt: 23 hits.
Taliesin: I'm going to just throw-- forget it, I'll throw four charges of Cabal's Ruin there. Let's just do it.
Matt: That's an additional 4d6 damage.
Liam: Am I electrified, sitting on his head?
Taliesin: Technically speaking, no, the way that this works-- it's like a Tesla arc, so it wouldn't technically-- you'll feel tingly.
Matt: Your hair sticks up a little bit. Your nipples get a little pointy. (laughter)
Matt: Start shaking in the leather armor.
Liam: Do it again, Percy. (laughter)
Taliesin: Bloody fanart. Okay. And let's see what kind of damage we do with this. Eh. That sucks. Stop it! Stop it! I can't count when-- that's (counting) 21 points of damage. Stop saying that, it's 21! You don't know, it's 21.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Second shot. Can I reroll that, 'cause he? Yeah, it misses. And now I'm going to die. You're like everything I hate about Overwatch.
Sam: You're not going to die.
Matt: One of the fingered claws of Thordak gets blasted off from the impact from Bad News, the energy arcing through the rest of his arm from Cabal's Ruin. The second shot, however, having to aim, manages to just barely miss Vax. He gets in the way of the shot, and you have to shoot wide and it misses entirely. Is that your turn?
Taliesin: Yeah. That's my turn.
Matt: At the end of Percy's turn, Thordak's going to go ahead and use his third legendary action.
Sam: To do what?
Matt: To do a tail attack against Vax. That is a 22 to hit?
Liam: No. Nope. Nope. Hasted, 23, fuck you. Not you.
Sam: 23? Jesus! Where'd you go?
Matt: All right. So that brings us to-- we're going to say this will be... all right. The ground shakes.
Sam: Oh, shit, I forgot about that. Lair actions.
Matt: A 60-foot radius around the dragon, as just the presence of Thordak, the ground just begins quaking beneath. You watch as fissures of small volcanic energy begin to break from underneath. Pretty much everybody--
Sam: Is Jarett in there?
Matt: Yep. Except for you, who's in the air. Need to make a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: Nope, rerolling that.
Sam: Natural 20, 25.
Taliesin: I'm rerolling, because that was awful. Oh, never mind.
Sam: Yeah, if he doesn't like it, he gets to reroll.
Matt: It's a fighter ability.
Taliesin: Nine.
Laura: 30 for me.
Matt: Pike?
Laura: Eight for Pike.
Travis: 11.
Liam: Not like this.
Matt: Grog, Keyleth, Percy, Pike, Gilmore, all get knocked prone from the ground quaking as you all fall on your back. You manage to brace yourself against the wall real fast, Vex.
Sam: Does Jarett get knocked to his feet?
Matt: (laughs) No. He just gets shaken on the ground.
Marisha: Popcorn on a trampoline.
Matt: Raishan does not get her breath back. She is, however, going to utilize Chain Lightning.
Marisha: Yeah, I want to see how this works.
Laura: She's going to hit us. No, she decides where it hits.
Sam: She's still on our side, right?
Taliesin: For another round or two.
Matt: All right. Chain Lightning. Dexterity saving throw. That's a success for Thordak. Sorry, I'm trying to get through this. Okay, so that is halved. Halved, that is 18 points of lightning damage. Vax, make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: I'm going to use Luck. Yeah. Good time to use Luck. 26.
Matt: 26, okay. You suffer 18 points of lightning damage as the bolt of energy that strikes Thordak then arcs into you because you're right next to it.
Liam: Would this be a new round for me to use Evasion? I've lost track.
Laura: No, 'cause Thordak's already gone.
Matt: No, you've already used it. So yeah. That ends that. Going to take off and land right there next to that guy.
Laura: Who is that guy?
Matt: That's the lizardman that fell from the wyvern. Keyleth, you're up.
Laura: Dragon just landed on him, basically.
Sam: I think he's got a shot.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Oh boy. Okay. I'm going to stand up. Question. Is Thordak within 30 feet of fire giant dude?
Matt: No.
Marisha: Okay. That answers my question, then. I'm going to reach up and do Blight on Thordak, 'cause I think I can, this time.
Matt: What's the range on Blight?
Marisha: 30 feet.
Matt: Nope. Thordak is 50 feet in the air.
Marisha: Fucking shit fuck balls. Okay. Then--
Laura: Maybe you can jump and then cast it.
Matt: You could climb up and cast it, if you wanted to try that.
Marisha: No. I'm in a skirt situation. It's not good.
Sam: I'm not even paying attention, so if that's your concern.
Marisha: No, it's just clumsy. Okay, I'm going to do-- everything's not ideal right now!
Laura: Climb it, climb it, Keyleth! Just do it!
Liam: It's fucking end of the world!
Taliesin: They don't know.
Marisha: You don't know! I'm not good at that. I'm bad at that thing. So I'm not a dextrous person, so instead I'm going to use my Spire of Conflux.
Sam: Oh yeah, that Vestige thing!
Marisha: Look, I haven't forgotten about it, all right?
Travis: Who are you talking to right now?
Marisha: My ancestors. And I'm going to do Chain Lightning on Thordak.
Sam: Oh! Another chain.
Matt: All righty. Thordak's save is 19.
Marisha: Fail, motherfucker!
Matt: Thordak's going to use his second legendary resistance to make it. So go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: Fine, that's fine. It's how many damage? Like 8d10?
Matt: 8d10.
Taliesin: Want some d10s?
Marisha: Yeah, I do.
Taliesin: Here's three more. How many are you at?
Marisha: I need one more. Oh, and I get to reroll ones, right? That's actually really--
Taliesin: Whoa! Holy fuck.
Sam: Is that a one?
Marisha: No, that's a seven. So that's 29, 34, plus-- that's a seven. And then 34 plus 14 is 48.
Matt: So half that is 24 points of lightning damage.
Marisha: And there's no one else within 30 feet of him, other than Raishan?
Matt: Raishan's not even in that range.
Marisha: No one else? Well. Okay. I do that, and then I turn around and I'm going to cast a Grasping Vine as a bonus action.
Taliesin: Oh, thank you.
Marisha: Right next to me. And then I'm going to use it to whip around and grab Percy and--
Matt: You do not have visual range on Percy right now.
Marisha: I haven't used any movement. Can I shift into that house a little bit?
Matt: Sure, you move into the house?
Marisha: Uh-huh. And once again cast Grasping Vine from out of that corner and drag Percy to me.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Around the ankles.
Matt: Still prone, but better.
Marisha: Hi.
Taliesin: Hi. That was really good. Ow.
Matt: That end your turn? All right. Jarett's turn. Jarett gets up. Jarett still only has a view of the dragon and is like, "What happened to-- that's weird." Missed the whole exchange. But gets the gist of it. Disadvantage. Misses. Natural 20, disadvantage. 15, still hits. Not a critical, unfortunately. But a ten on damage, that's 13 piercing damage.
Laura: It didn't drop fear when he died?
Matt: No, I think that would instill more fear.
Laura: Okay, just checking. (laughter)
Laura: Just checking.
Matt: Logistically.
Laura: I didn't know if it was a reset when you wake up.
Matt: Right. Gilmore gets up from the ground.
Taliesin: I'm so distracted right now. There's too much happening.
Matt: So he's going to cast another 4th-level Lightning Bolt. Thordak fails his save. Is going to use his last resistance to get that, 'cause he's doing real rough.
Laura: You've got big-level spells, don't you, still?
Sam: Yeah, one.
Matt: He's rolling shit tonight. 14 points of lightning damage. No, 16. Okay. All righty. That's Gilmore's turn. It's Grog and Thordak's turn.
Travis: Oh, yes? I would like to stand up.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: How high is Thordak?
Matt: Thordak is 40 feet up.
Travis: Son of a bitch on a stick. Could I just attach the bloodaxe and throw it at his much smaller foot, now?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: Yeah, but I can only jump 20 feet in the air. 15 feet in the air.
Liam: That'll do it, won't it?
Travis: He's 40 feet in the air.
Sam: You don't know numbers. Maybe it'll work.
Travis: These hieroglyphs seem to indicate that he's too high. Yeah, 'cause I'm only like 14 feet high, right?
Matt: Right now? Yeah.
Travis: I'm reckless throwing the bushwhacker.
Laura: (gasps) He got another natural 20!
Sam: Holy shit!
Matt: You have advantage. Roll again.
Travis: Ten.
Laura: That's a really pretty die that he's got, too. Sparkly.
Marisha: She's getting ideas.
Travis: (counting) 34, 37, 38. 38 points of damage.
Matt: 38 points of damage.
Taliesin: That with your bonus? I just said that randomly, I don't actually know any of your bonuses, I just thought maybe it would jog something.
Travis: With my movement, can I run nuts towards where the fire giant is?
Matt: Sure. You can get right there.
Travis: That'll work. I need a new plaything that'll actually stay.
Matt: Thordak, who is physically falling apart at this point, sections just sloughing off, and just the whole experience has been sending his physical-- his whole physical form is wrecked right now. The word escapes me that I was looking for. He's going to go ahead and turn and go into a full flight.
Liam: I'm riding him.
Matt: You're riding him?
Liam: Yeah. Shit yeah, I'm riding him.
Marisha: Oh, no. No, Vax, no.
Taliesin: Vax is good.
Laura: No!
Matt: Dash into the dark hole within.
Taliesin: This is good.
Laura: Why is this good?
Sam: A dark hole?
Laura: Vax, be careful!
Travis: We don't care about the tunnel, huh? (laughter)
Matt: You need to go ahead and roll a strength saving throw to try and maintain grip as the dragon goes into a full dive.
Liam: I'll use my last Luck. So it's a 15.
Matt: 15. You do manage to make it inside the tunnel, but you lose your grip and then go into a full tumble, hitting the ground. It's a decline, it's a 45-degree angle downward.
Liam: So I'm in there with him.
Matt: Yes. Roll an acrobatics check to stop yourself.
Liam: That is a 25.
Matt: 25, okay. So you do tumble and come to a stop. You don't take any damage from the fall, and you stop yourself from doing a tumble, but it is still a decline into darkness below, and you just watch as the back end of Thordak's barely flying form slams into the side of the tunnel and continues swooping away.
Liam: Do I still see him with darkvision at this point?
Matt: He just begins to leave outside of your darkvision.
Liam: Are we still in the same chain of initiative?
Matt: As of right now, we are, yes. So. Finishing, that is Thordak's go. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I run after him and dive after him, because I saw that. And at the edge of my movement, I want to hop out on my broom and get ready to fly down the hole after.
Matt: Okay. So you are hasted, so you get down and you basically have just enough movement to catch up to your brother. And you get the broom out. You're both down there in the darkness by yourselves. You guys watch as the rest of them dive into the hole. Vax, you're up.
Liam: How far away from me is he?
Matt: How far does your darkvision go for?
Liam: 60 feet.
Matt: He's outside of your darkvision.
Liam: Then I am going to use my movement and go 120 feet, or until I see him.
Laura: Can I cast-- 'cause I didn't do an attack, right?
Matt: This is happening after your turn. So you begin to dart forward?
Liam: This is just my movement. 120 feet or until I'm on him.
Matt: Well, your movement is not 120 feet. You're still flying through there?
Liam: Yes, I'm flying.
Matt: Right, so your wings are still out there. Okay. Okay. So yeah, you begin to come in, you see him just begin to come into your visual range.
Liam: Still away from me?
Matt: Still away from you.
Liam: Then I'm going to use a bonus action to dash and hit his back, and land on his back.
Matt: Okay. You land on his back.
Liam: Attack, attack. First attack is a-- scheisse. 24.
Matt: I would say you have disadvantage on these strikes, as you're currently gripping onto a flying dragon underneath a cavern ripping through. You have advantage on them automatically, which means you don't have disadvantage on these strikes, but you do not get the automatic sneak attack.
Liam: I don't remember-- oh, I don't get the automatic sneak attack?
Matt: No.
Liam: But I got advantage?
Matt: No. Essentially, you would have advantage, and then trying to grip onto him and through the middle of this tunnel and slamming into him, you would have disadvantage, and so they both cancel to just a regular attack.
Liam: All right, so 24 for the first.
Matt: What was the first one?
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Liam: Second one is a natural 20.
Matt: Second one was a natural 20? All right.
Liam: So the first one's the dragon-slaying. Three, eight, 14, 19, plus Hunter's Mark. So there's no sneak attack on this, right, you said?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: 21 with the dragon-slayer.
Matt: 21, nice.
Liam: And then Whisper, which is a natural 20, is one plus that is nine, plus the-- six is 15, plus Hunter's Mark. 17.
Laura: Times two?
Liam: Oh. 15 times two is 30.
Laura: It's all times two, 'cause that's all-- well, 15 times two is 30.
Liam: 30 plus eight. 38.
Matt: Okay. How do you want to do this? (yelling)
Laura: In the dark. Alone.
Sam: In a dark pit.
Liam: With Whisper, I'm going to shove it in so that my hand disappears from view, so I'm up to my forearm, and stab as far in as I can reach. I hear the voice of my mother in the morning. Fuck you.
Matt: As the blade plunges into Thordak's now-sloughing and soft flesh, exposed through a series of wounds and gashes left behind by your allies, and his form just slowly shriveling into its diminutive space, the dagger cuts cleanly through, and with that force you go all the way up to the shoulder as you reach inside. As you finish saying your phrase, your eyes narrow and you clench your teeth, and as you pull back and yank, there's this strange series of low whispers that come into your ears, and as you pull back, you watch as these bits of greyish energy begin to pour out of the air, coalescing around the blade, fitting into the body where you're currently plunged within. As you yank outward, you watch as the blade almost has an extended edge about ten, 15 feet beyond Whisper's actual-- and this blade edge just leaves a giant wound on the side of Thordak's body. You don't even hear an exclamation of pain as Thordak just slowly slams into the ground of this low, barely glowing tunnel. Roll an acrobatics check with disadvantage.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25.
Sam: Jesus.
Matt: So with the speed and impact of tumbling, you manage to reduce the damage by half, so you--
Liam: Which is also halved by the potion.
Matt: Right. That is 17 points of bludgeoning damage.
Liam: Is that the quarter?
Matt: No, that's halved. So that would bring it to 8. As you watch Thordak's form sputter, roll, and then tumble, grinding to a halt, gathering a bunch of stone, broken rock, and part of the cavern that's on the verge of collapsing from the impact of Thordak's body, now lifeless, still in the darkness, subterranean tunnel. And we're going to take a break. (yelling)
Travis: We don't even know it's happened, though, yet! It's all underground!
Taliesin: She would know.
Laura: I do know. Can I fly forward before we take the break?
Matt: You want to?
Laura: I just want to fly forward and hug my brother as he's just covered in dragon guts.
Taliesin: He's way down in there. That's a long flight.
Matt: And now we'll take a break. So we'll be back here in a few minutes.
Sam: Don't forget, Backblaze is hosting a Critical Role giveaway. Anyone who signs up for a free trial with Backblaze at backblaze.com/criticalrole through January 8th will be eligible to win items signed by the Critical Role team that killed a dragon.
Matt: Check out the video here during the break, and we'll be back in a few minutes, guys. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, everybody. First and foremost, we have our winner in the chat for the Wyrmwood dice tray. It is DetectiveKane! (cheering)
Matt: You'll receive this awesome dice tray signed by us. Half of us at the break, and the other half will sign before the night is out. But it's coming your way real soon. Congratulations, DetectiveKane! Get this out of my fucking face!
Laura: Nobody's there.
Matt: Somebody take it from me!
Sam: I don't even know that guy!
Taliesin: I think I see half a dozen people on their phones behind us.
Matt: It feels so good to be able to do that, but it feels better when it's immediate. Otherwise, it feels, like, kinda good. All right, so. Picking up where we left off. The rest of you watch as Thordak swooped into the hole that he emerged from, quickly followed by Vex and Vax. There is still on the field-- Raishan just tore into this lizard man. We have a fire giant that is unscathed currently, bearing down on the rest of the party, and a wyvern rider back around this wall section here. That being the case, they end that turn there. First up is Lady Kima. Who is pissed that she hasn't had a chance to really do anything tonight against flying dragons.
Travis: There's a big fire giant.
Matt: That's what she's going to do. Paladins that don't fly and have haste have a hard time getting around. Just so you know.
Laura: Vestige!
Matt: Watching this giant whale upon Percy pisses her off, and she cracks her neck. "You're first." And she leaps down.
Travis: Open him up!
Matt: And she's going to multi-attack against him. That is-- that hits. And the other also hits. Even with a minus five on each for her Great Weapon Master. She's also going to Divine Smite on that at a level three.
Travis: Yeah, get it!
Matt: First strike is a 14, plus ten, 24. Plus 11, 35. 42 points of damage on her first strike against the giant.
Travis: Boom!
Matt: And the second strike is 24 points of damage. So that fire giant's already had a big chunk taken out of its-- Kima rushes up and double strikes with her Holy Avenger, one cleaving off a piece of its armor, the second one cuts through, leaving a giant flash of divine energy as it bursts out the side. She looks up in the eyes and says, "Bahamut says hi." That ends Kima's turn. Pike is up now.
Sam: Oh, how's Pike doing?
Laura: Pike-- oh, Pike's turn! Jesus.
Liam: She's doing great.
Travis: Head out of ass.
Laura: I'm sorry! Okay.
Liam: She's in Manhattan.
Laura: She stands up.
Matt: Technically-- I was going to say, the giant was going on Thordak's turn order. So I technically skipped the giant's turn. That's fine. I'll do the giant's turn now.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: The giant, who has watched Percy get pulled away, steps in to get into melee range with both Kima and Grog.
Travis: That's such a mistake.
Matt: And is going to take a strike on each. Takes an attack on Kima and rolls-- that's a 20, that hits. And then roll Grog-- that is a 29.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: That's 28 points of damage to Kima and-- it's fun to roll against the players. 33 points of slashing damage against you, Grog.
Travis: So halved to, math?
Matt: 16.
Travis: Thank you. I will use my Retaliation. The old chin turned back. Reckless. Great Weapon Master. That's better. 21.
Matt: 21. That hits.
Travis: Nice. 21, that was crap. And 22. Both ones. 22 plus ten is 32.
Matt: 32 points of damage, nice. The giant already in that round of attacks and your retaliation is-- it has its giant greatsword on the ground, it's rearing up for its next round of arcing attacks. That brings us to Pike. What's Pike doing now?
Laura: Okay, Pike stands up. She's going to run forward and say, "You can't have all the fun, Grog!" And she's going to Guiding Bolt, level four, at the fire giant.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll a melee spell attack.
Laura: Okay, okay. Okay, that's 18.
Matt: 18 just hits.
Laura: Okay. Oh, wait. 17.
Matt: Nope.
Liam: 17 sounds like 18.
Matt: It does, but it's not the same. The giant sees the flash of light as the bolt comes towards it, out the corner of its eye. As it has its blade down, it instead ducks underneath, using Grog for cover briefly as it arcs past its shoulder and shoots off through the cloud, out of sight.
Marisha: What if it was 17.99? That's basically like 18.
Matt: It's not.
Liam: Crazy Eddie prices?
Travis: Taco Bell logic right there.
Laura: She says, "So, sorry! I guess you do have all the fun. How are you on hit points, Grog? You okay?"
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Okay, then she's going to Healing Word herself at first level.
Matt: Okay. d4 plus five.
Laura: Okay, that's six points.
Matt: There you go. Six points to Pike. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: We're fighting this fucking giant thing?
Liam: Yeah, man.
Sam: Jesus. I'm going to move out from my hidey hole. Oh god, there's a giant there. I think my Bigby's is still on the field, yeah. So I'll Bigby's Punch. Bigby Punch!
Matt: Yeah, Bigby could just get into range melee there for it.
Sam: A 24?
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll your 6d8.
Sam: 6d8, oh man. I only have one d8. I'll roll it six times.
Marisha: Do you want some d8s?
Sam: I'll roll it six times.
Marisha: No, that's-- oh, he's already committed.
Travis: Mad d8's. Oh, he's stroking out.
Marisha: Should we do what he does to us? 15!
Sam: That was four.
Travis: Flirted with the edge.
Laura: 15. 15.
Taliesin: 23.
Marisha: 15.
Sam: You fuckers!
Taliesin: This doesn't feel good on the other end, does it?
Sam: Oh, shit, that was a lot! It's either 33 or 34, they fucked me up. But it was a lot! It was mostly sevens and eights!
Matt: We'll go with 34 on that. Cool. So, as the giant ducks out of the way of the Guiding Bolt streaking past, it snickers and grins, says something in Giant which you hear, which is--
Travis: (gasps)
Matt: You didn't even hear what he said yet!
Travis: Oh. I will hold my reaction.
Matt: "Insolents, bow to your king!"
Travis: No.
Matt: And then, as it brings the sword up, while it saw the glimmer of the Guiding Bolt, it didn't see the purple glimmer of the shining fist as it comes up and whack right across the jaw, dislocating it briefly as the fist comes back up and is ready for another round. Still standing, but looking pretty rough. That brings us to--
Sam: That was my bonus action. As my action, I will swig a Greater Healing Potion.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What is that, four?
Matt: Greater Healing Potion is 4d4 plus four, yeah.
Taliesin: Oh, 4d4 plus six!
Sam: Yeah, the potion doesn't do that for me, does it? Plus four? Four, three, two, one is ten, right?
Matt: Yes. So 14 hit points you heal.
Laura: When you were healing Pike with the superior, did you add--
Sam: You're right, it's two less than I thought.
Laura: Oh, okay. So she's at 40 healed points now, not 42.
Sam: I get a plus six when I cast it, because of my awesomeness.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: But not when I use a potion.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Got it.
Matt: All righty. Scanlan, that finish your turn?
Sam: Yeah, I think I'm done.
Matt: Percival.
Taliesin: I'm going to put Bad News away, pull out Animus and take three shots at this asshole.
Matt: Okay. So are you getting up?
Taliesin: I'm getting up. Pulling out the gun, putting three sharpshooter shots in this guy.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's a 26. That hits. I'm going to roll that one until he drops, so that I can-- 1d8 plus 1d6. 1d10 plus 1d6. That's 18, 19, 20, 21. 21 points of damage plus four points of psychic damage, so 25 points of damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Second shot. That's 21 to hit.
Matt: Hits.
Sam: Right? Plus three plus two plus one...
Taliesin: That's... Not right now, you bastard! I hate you! That's 27 plus... 27 points of damage plus one point of psychic damage to me because I can't think!
Marisha: He needs horse blinders! Horse blinders!
Taliesin: So 27 points of damage plus one... I'm so sorry.
Sam: What goes around comes around!
Matt: So as the fist clocks him across the face, dislocating the jaw, it stands up and grabs the jaw and snaps it back into place. Looks up just in time for you to come up out of the shadow and (gunshots), turning the barrels, you fire, and the first shot hits in the side of the throat and blows open the neck. And you see as the blood begins to gout out, reaches up with a hand and it (gasps) but it's to no use as the other shot takes out the right eye, blowing out the back of the giant's head as it falls backward.
Sam: Violence, violence! Who would've thought a fire giant would be so easy?
Taliesin: I am now going to start making my way to the-- I'm going to start running my way to the pit. With what little movement I have because I got up.
Matt: Okay. All right, that ends Percy's turn. Top of the round, the lair actions do not function. However, you watch as the skyship Deera, still rotating around, there's still wyverns attacking. You hear the distant sounds of lightning cracks as well. And you hear very, very distantly what sounds like a-- sorry, internet-- a cacophony of voices. Because there's no other word to describe it. Hundreds and hundreds of voices, all shouting combat war cries simultaneously. You have no idea how far away it is, it's very, very faint, you just pick it up. You hear the sound of impacts, of crumbling stone in the distance. There is a battle happening all throughout the city that is slowly making its way towards your current location. Deera's turned around and is going to take two shots at Raishan, because it's going to fire at whatever dragons are there. Damon was not notified of anything otherwise.
Laura: You know what, if Raishan gets hit, she gets hit.
Matt: Rolled an eight, and an eight. No, it does not hit. Oh, she gets three attacks, because the--
Travis: What?
Matt: Three eights in a row. That's ridiculous. Yeah! That's not a three, that's an eight. Absurd. So yeah, (boom, boom, boom) all on the ground, and Raishan spins in place (growls), "Call off your dogs! We still have a deal!"
Travis: We literally have no power over them.
Taliesin: I'll respond. To the pit! Now!
Matt: Which, Raishan at this point is now leaping (whoosh) and disappears into the portal-- or down into the hole in the ground.
Taliesin: She was already going that way, she doesn't get into shit with that.
Laura: I want her to get hit.
Taliesin: She's not going to get-- She's going in the tunnel.
Matt: All right. At this point, full speed, that is-- 60 feet, yeah. You guys, as you're having this moment hugging each other--
Laura: Hugs!
Matt: You hear (wings flapping) (smash) The ground shakes nearby as you turn and see, you watch as Raishan skids to a halt right next to you and the currently smashed corpse of Thordak within the tunnel.
Marisha: Can I say over like a headpiece thing-- Be like, twins, if you're still alive, I think Raishan's coming in your direction.
Liam: Thanks for that.
Matt: Raishan is watching both of you as she begins to walk towards Thordak's corpse and goes, "You've done well."
Liam: Yeah, what now?
Taliesin: Every six seconds, we get to move.
Marisha: Yeah, we're heading ass-- Hauling ass that way!
Taliesin: Booking with my spider walk.
Laura: I'm heading ass-wherever!
Taliesin: Running down the ceiling upside-down.
Travis: Not me, I'm putting out that last fire on the map.
Laura: Stomp, stomp, stomp!
Sam: He's volunteer fire department, yeah.
Matt: 80 foot flying, this wyvern swoops in.
Sam: Ah, there's a fucking wyvern?
Liam: Keyleth.
Matt: The one that was left earlier, that was after you, is going to swoop in and attempt to make two strikes at Kima. Miss. And a three. Miss. And the rider's going to go ahead and make two strikes at her as well. Miss with a 17. And a two! Kima's like deflecting, getting against the wall as the spear shoots by and as the blade comes down from the rider, she strikes it with the sword and stops it mid-air, and she starts laughing in his face. That ends its go.
Travis: Trinity.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Sam: Keyleth! There's a wyvern on the field. Or you can ignore and go into the hole.
Marisha: Fuck that wyvern. I say, everyone in the hole! And I head towards the hole.
Taliesin: We're going to need light down here.
Sam: (singing) Head to the hole!
Matt: Are you doing a double move?
Marisha: (singing) Black as your soul! What?
Matt: Double move? Are you doing a dash action?
Sam: You've got nothing else to do.
Marisha: Yeah, I'll dash.
Matt: Okay. So you begin to make it into the hole. That brings us to Jarett's turn. Jarett is going to turn the corner, he's like, "So it's gone? Okay, good." Loads the crossbow, sees the wyvern, and goes, "Are you-- no, are you-- seriously?" and takes his shots. Nice, 19. Yeah, two shots against the wyvern.
Laura: Nice. This is his level, this is what Jarett needs at a time.
Liam: This is the Jarett we know.
Matt: 14 points of damage. He's not the heroic individual you guys are necessarily.
Marisha: Look, he's a great security guard.
Laura: He is bad-ass.
Matt: He is, in his own field.
Liam: He caught my sister's attention, anyone that does that has got to have a lot of spunk.
Matt: All righty. So that ends his turn there, those two shots. Both sink into the wyvern, both bolt stuns (snarling). That will end his go. Gilmore, recognizing the circumstance here and everyone's rushing in there, he's going to go ahead and... okay, he'll go, "Actually, me first." And he Dimension Doors to the edge, and begins to charge in after you guys. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: I want to kill all the things that are alive.
Matt: Okay. So you move into melee with the wyvern and the rider.
Travis: Yeah. Great Weapon Master, Reckless. Eight, 15, 19.
Matt: Hits.
Marisha: Kill it real hard.
Travis: 16. 22. Ooh! 26. 36. For the first hit.
Matt: We'll say for the sake of brevity, you're going to wipe out the wyvern.
Travis: Yay!
Matt: Because you're giant Grog.
Travis: Is the lizard man left?
Matt: The lizard man is left, yes.
Travis: Can I give him the option to run?
Matt: If you want to.
Travis: Nah, fuck that. I kill him, too.
Matt: Well, all three of your attacks would be what it would take to take out the wyvern.
Travis: Hey! Oh, cool.
Matt: So as you finish cleaving the wyvern down, it falls over and the lizard man's like (snarls).
Travis: Yeah, I do this.
Matt: (reptilian whimper) It looks conflicted.
Travis: You're at a crossroads, bro. Crossroads.
Matt: Vex. It's your go.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You have Raishan like (booming footsteps) stepping over to Thordak's body, watching you closely.
Laura: What are you doing?
Matt: "Exactly what we talked about. Learning his secret."
Laura: I'm going to keep my hand ready to attack and hold my action until anything gets aggressive with Raishan.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: What do you see down there? What's happening, what's in the room?
Laura: Thordak is dead.
Taliesin: What's in the room?
Laura: Oh, what do I see around me?
Matt: The tunnel that you're in, it's been a steady decline. It's rounded off a little bit and it begins to open up maybe 70 feet ahead of you. Actually, with your darkvision, you would just barely start to see it begin to open, it looks like there's an actual chamber ahead of all of you guys, but you haven't reached it yet.
Travis: The shitter.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to use my movement to back away from Raishan towards the chamber. But I'm going to hold my attack until I think it's aggressive.
Matt: Okay. So as you move in, you can see there's a very, very faint glow of orange and red in the room, and the whole tunnel here has a very, very, very concentrated natural burning chemical smell to it. A lot of sulfur-type, very putrid, pungent smells. And the glow you can now see, there is a lava flow that is coalescing in the center of this room, or at least is pouring through, and it looks like it's bisecting this room. You don't make out much more detail than that at this distance, but you do see this chamber does have an actual flow of liquid rock.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: Keyleth? You tell me.
Marisha: What's going on? Whatcha doing?
Liam: You tell me.
Marisha: Just describe the scene.
Liam: Hit or wait?
Marisha: Wait till I'm there! Wait till I'm there!
Liam: What?
Marisha: Wait till I'm there!
Liam: I'm going to hold my turn until Keyleth acts.
Matt: Okay. Pike, Scanlan, you guys all follow suit?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, at a full run you guys can get, at your tiny feet you can get up towards the edge there.
Taliesin: I'm at a full run on the roof.
Matt: Right, Percival. Yeah, you do, you get up there and inside. Raishan comes up to the body of Thordak and you see that she reaches up under one of her scales and pulls out a small leather case.
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: Pops open the case.
Marisha: Don't let her touch him.
Matt: And sits back and pulls open a somewhat weathered scroll. And starts reading off of it. (magical language)
Laura: Oh, no, what is this?
Marisha: No no no! Don't go, don't go--
Liam: Attack. I'm attacking her. She acted, she said don't touch, I said I'll base it off of Keyleth, so I'm attacking. I'm going to interrupt that.
Travis: Don't you want to see what happens?
Liam: No.
Matt: Okay. Hold on. You say attack based on-- Because you don't see this yet.
Marisha: I said don't let her touch him.
Travis: She's reading that scroll, man.
Matt: She hasn't touched him yet. But you're attacking on your own instinct.
Liam: If I've heard don't let her touch him, and she's doing that, those two things mean the same thing to me. She's doing something. Yes.
Matt: All right. I will say, for this, go ahead and make a dexterity check.
Liam: Dexterity check? All right. And I'll use my last Luck of the day.
Sam: I thought you did that already.
Liam: I had two. So that's a 28.
Matt: 28, okay. So you can make your attack. This with the dagger?
Liam: This is everything. How far away is she from me?
Matt: She's maybe like 20 feet, so you can--
Liam: All three attacks.
Matt: Well, you held your action, which means you can only take your action, you can't move as well.
Liam: Okay. Move? I don't need to move. How far away is she, you said--
Matt: 20 feet.
Liam: 20 feet. So I can throw daggers at her, right?
Laura: Yeah, but you can't throw your sword
Liam: No, but I have lots of daggers. I still have the Flametongue Dagger, which is not attuned, it's just a lame old dagger.
Matt: That's true, you can do that, yeah. So yeah, you can do that.
Taliesin: Oh boy.
Liam: First one is a 23.
Matt: A 23?
Liam: Second one is a 19. Third one is a 29.
Matt: Okay. So it was-- 29 hits. The first one...
Liam: God. I don't remember.
Laura: A 23.
Liam: 23 sounds familiar.
Matt: Right. The 19 was the one that didn't hit.
Liam: So two of the three hit? So it was hit-miss-hit, right? I think so. All right, so the first one is Whisper. Four plus eight is 12, plus psychic damage is 15, but there's no sneak attack, because there's nobody near her, and the Hunter's Mark-- Oh! Can I move Hunter's Mark to her at this point? I have no idea.
Matt: No, because you've used all your attacks.
Liam: It's a bonus? Okay. Got it. Okay. So 15 for the first and the second one. Oh, I don't need that. Is nine.
Matt: Okay, so what was the first attack? It was--
Liam: 15 plus nine.
Matt: 15? 15 plus nine. So the first attack was 15. Okay, maintains concentration. Maintains concentration.
Liam: And I'll use my movement to move between my sister and Raishan.
Laura: You can't do movement, because you were holding your action.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: Okay. So as both daggers come, you watch as it's muttering from the scroll, not both of her eyes, but one of the eyes turns to face you.
Laura: Like a chameleon.
Matt: Yeah. And narrows. The scroll finishes and (poof) turns to ash. And similar to something you've seen before, you watch as Thordak's corpse, which is currently buried into the rock with the face to the side, the breath filters into the mouth. The body still motionless, you recognize this similar or adjacent magic to the Speak With Dead--
Liam: We've seen Pike do it.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: She's just trying to ask a question, Vax. I mean, Jesus.
Liam: You're not here.
Matt: So as soon as that finishes, Raishan-- the other eye flickers over. Now both eyes are on you. And says, "Know what you're doing."
Liam: You're not walking away from this field. You're going to die. Maybe I will too, but you are going to die.
Matt: (chuckles) Okay.
Sam: We're men of our word. We're men of honor.
Matt: Raishan is going to...
Laura: She did attack our home.
Sam: I'm not saying she's great.
Matt: Hmm. Let me check one thing real fast.
Sam: Hmm. Oh boy. You stumped the chump.
Matt: Well, I'm trying to see what her reaction's going to be. Oh, okay. She feels comfortable with that. She goes, "Well, then. Come claim me!" And just steps away from Thordak. And with one big push of the wings, turns around and coasts into the chamber beyond you.
Liam: Out of sight?
Matt: Beyond, you can see her form disappear into the darkness. There's a little bit of an orange glow in there, but given that circumstance, yeah, she disappears into the shadows of the room.
Laura: Should I have taken my shots when things got aggressive?
Marisha: So she's coming towards us.
Matt: No, she's going the opposite direction.
Laura: I mean, did that look aggressive?
Matt: She flew away from your brother. But your brother did throw three daggers into her, and then said she was going to die.
Travis: Did she ask her questions of Thordak?
Laura: It might not have been the same fucking spell. It could have been something like it.
Travis: He said it looked very similar.
Laura: Yeah, adjacent.
Liam: I'm sure she was just going to ask about cooking recipes. It's fine.
Matt: So what are you going to do, attack or not? You watched your brother throw three daggers into Raishan, and tell her that she's going to die, and then Raishan basically abandoned Thordak's body and fled.
Laura: Said, "Come and claim me," and flew toward me?
Matt: Flew over you, and past, into the chamber.
Laura: Yeah, I'm going to attack.
Matt: Go for it. Roll your attacks!
Laura: Oh no.
Travis: Do it, Tiny Toon!
Liam: Go for it.
Sam: You got this, Bailes.
Marisha: I mean, she kind of released Thordak. She's totally Little Finger.
Laura: This isn't about vengeance, though, you guys.
Sam: What is it about?
Matt: Roll your attacks.
Liam: Five, four, three, two...
Laura: I don't know. (sad noise) That one doesn't hit. Probably. 18.
Matt: Nope.
Laura: That one probably hits. 27?
Matt: Yeah. (laughter)
Sam: Saddest attack ever.
Laura: And a natural fucking one. Fenthras can sense my trepidation.
Matt: Hah, apparently! So roll damage on one arrow strike. And it is, your hand's shaking at this moment, you're trying to figure out what to do. When she flies overhead, you release one arrow, pull back and pull another, and the second one is right as she's over and above, sinks in. And the third one, you fire after, and it hits the rock ceiling.
Laura: Just 15 damage.
Matt: 15 points of damage. All righty. Raishan just swoops into the darkness of the chamber beyond. Keyleth. You just manage to catch up at this point now, at a full run, this will be your full turn, catching up to Vex and Vax. Or Vax specifically, Vex is a little beyond, aggressive stance, Raishan nowhere to be seen, Thordak's corpse ground into the dirt.
Marisha: Where is she?
Liam: Forward.
Marisha: Are we going after her? I mean--
Taliesin: I'm not there.
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: I run deeper into the hole.
Matt: Okay. Jarett and Gilmore, at this point, manage to catch up to you guys, as well. It'll take a while for Grog and Kima to catch up to you guys.
Travis: Oh, I didn't say I was leaving.
Sam: Looting the giant's body?
Travis: No, there's a lizardfolk right there.
Matt: It's true, actually, yeah.
Travis: I want to see how many licks it takes to get to the center of a Tootsie Roll Pop.
Sam: One. It takes one lick.
Matt: Well, Grog, it's staring at you, going like (growl).
Travis: I reach out and go like (head crushing sound).
Matt: Make a strength check.
Travis: I have advantage on those. (laughter)
Travis: 18. 18 plus seven. 25.
Matt: 25? There's this moment where you're grabbing its head, and it reaches up and (frantic snarl).
Travis: Can't hear you, can't hear you. (laughter)
Matt: A very Riki-oh type moment. The head just pops outward in a smear of purple gore.
Travis: Oh, no. That's the show, folks. All right. Well. Anybody see that? Who's here?
Sam: My hand is near you.
Travis: Kima's there, right?
Matt: (chuckles) Bigby's Hand claps the wall, applause. (laughter)
Travis: Ha, fuck Bigby's Hand.
Matt: You look over at Kima, and Kima's kind of spattered with it, and she goes, "Well done!"
Travis: Smooth, right? Let's join everybody else.
Matt: "All right, all right." You're going your movement, about there, full speed. Kima's a little slower behind. She'll catch up at a full double-dash speed, there. Jarett and everybody else has kind of moved in. We'll say at this point, the rest of you--
Laura: (laughs) Jarett is just like--
Matt: He can't do anything, he's having a bad day, man.
Marisha: Poor Jarett.
Matt: So you guys all charge in after?
Taliesin: I'm doing the best I can, I can't see a damn thing.
Matt: No, you guys are far behind. So it's currently you three in the lead.
Travis: Should anybody stay out here in case she wants to come back out? You want me to stay out?
Matt: Do you want to move Bigby's Hand?
Sam: Yeah, for the rest of the one minute it works for. Which is not very long?
Matt: Nah.
Taliesin: If she makes her way out, that means we're all dead. Come on in. It'll be fun. Let's all die together.
Marisha: We'll go to the spa afterwards.
Matt: So you guys kind of rush into this chamber now, and the heat in here is more immense than anything you felt on the surface. This is kind of the core of the volcanic surge that Thordak's presence was pulling upward. You see within, there's this flow of lava. I want the three of you to roll perception checks, if you can.
Sam: Who's the three, Vax, Vex, and--
Liam: 31. 31.
Laura: This is at advantage because it's a dragon-related thing?
Matt: Well, are you looking for Raishan, or are you inspecting the room for details?
Laura: I don't know, what am I rolling for?
Matt: I was rolling to see just the general vicinity of the room.
Laura: Okay, 27.
Liam: 31.
Marisha: 25.
Matt: You guys, the first thing you notice as you glance around, is there are some kind of alcoves inside this chamber where the rock formations pull inward. You see kind of set into the stone and various bits of fallen rock and earth, a handful, somewhat spread out throughout the room, a handful of large nine-foot-tall dark, deep crimson red with crystalline elements to the outside, ovoid structures. These are what appear to be larger than normal, elementally altered dragon eggs. Five of them in the chamber.
Laura: Five bebes?!
Sam: (singing) Muppet Babies...
Laura: Can I look back at Thordak? What does it look like-- I know Raishan, like, (gasps) made him do that. Does it look like there's anything around him, or is he just dead-dead still?
Matt: He's a ways back. If you want to try and move back to him, you can. But, with your high perception, you glance up and see in the ceiling portion of this chamber where there are a number of these small caverns that are pressed up to the side, you see out of the top just the slight peeking of Raishan's face, kind of looking down into the chamber above you. And you watch as the teeth, something muttering in the mouth, the teeth grin as the ceiling of the room, you watch distortion in the air above you. Almost like these small portals kind of (multiple fwooshes) open, and coming flying out of them, you see four large, flaming rocks. Rocks. These are massive, fiery, meteorite-like boulders, that come firing out of the ceiling of the room (crashing sounds). Slamming into the ground around you, exploding in a massive explosions, rocking you. All you see is white, and ringing in your ears as your bodies are thrown from explosion to explosion. I need the three of you to make dexterity saving throws.
Liam: 25.
Marisha: I rolled a natural 19, so 22.
Laura: 29.
Sam: Wow, guys! That's really good rolling!
Matt: You guys take half damage. Well, here, let's do the first part. So, there's the fire damage. Which is 20d6.
Liam: What did we have to beat?
Matt: You had to beat 22.
Liam: Zero.
Matt: Right, so you take zero damage from this. Both of you take 63 points of fire damage. Halved, to 31. And then you each take 70 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: 70?
Travis: That's 130-something total points.
Matt: As these flaming arcane meteors crash into the ground, detonating and destroying a portion of the cavern floor, lava spatters everywhere, and you watch as you duck out of the way as, Keyleth, what are your hit points at?
Marisha: I'm actually still up at-- What's 101 minus 119? 18 points.
Matt: 18 points. Set your hit points to that. You watch as your sister is thrown, her body unconscious, flung in the air like a ragdoll as it scatters to one end of the cavern. You can see the volcanic activity billowing up from the recent shaking of the room, as bits of the molten rock are flung across, as the green dragon face kind of withdraws in the cave. And I think that's where we're going to pick up next year. (yelling)
Matt: It's 11 22, guys! We gotta get home!
Sam: Next year?! We have to wait a year?!
Laura: I have to find out if I'm for sure dead.
Liam: I got you, I got you.
Laura: I'm across the fucking room.
Liam: Doesn't matter, I can fly 500 feet, I got you.
Taliesin: You're going to get the conclusion of this before the next season of Westworld.
Liam: Lay on Hands, dude.
Sam: No, she's dead.
Liam: No, shut up. I will kill you in the parking lot.
Matt: We will pick this up in January.
Travis: What was that called, those four flaming rocks?
Matt: That's called Meteor Swarm. That's a 9th-level spell.
Travis: Is that a spell? What level is that?
All: 9th-level.
Liam: She just blew her wad, she's done, we got a dragon and a flute.
Laura: She's not done.
Matt: You're right. She has nothing else up her sleeve. So. On that note.
Sam: Matt Mercer.
Matt: This could possibly be a whole different encounter, I don't want to keep you guys here until 1 AM. I know Laura has to record in the morning.
Laura: I do, I have to film all day.
Sam: I have an 8 AM session.
Matt: Well. Guys. This will be interesting. (groaning)
Matt: Yeah, it's going to take a few rounds for the rest of the party to get here.
Travis: She didn't get to ask any of the questions?
Laura: She might not have even needed to ask questions.
Sam: Of course she did, she cast a big spell to do it!
Marisha: Yeah, maybe she was doing it telepathically.
Sam: What are you talking about? She read a scroll!
Laura: Maybe it was just taking his soul into herself.
Sam: Information!
Matt: Regardless. (laugh) We are out for the evening, thank you all for sticking with us for this longer episode.
Liam: We should have just let her do what she wants, summon the most powerful thing in the universe.
Travis: I like that idea.
Marisha: Team Rowdy Half-Elves, what's up!
Matt: Yeah, the half-elves are down here in this chamber, with the Thordak eggs.
Marisha: Half-elves, running in, recklessly, yeah! Like we do!
Taliesin: I've got nothin'. Yeah.
Matt: (laughs) Anyway, guys. Thank you so much for watching, thank you guys for kicking ass in that battle.
Travis: Talks Machina next week?
Matt: Talks Machina on Tuesday. It's the Critmas episode, check it out.
Laura: Check out Backblaze.
Matt: Indeed, indeed. And I guess have a wonderful New Year to all of you guys, very happy holidays to everyone. All viewers, Critters, Team Hooman, and everyone who decides to spend their Thursdays with us. We really appreciate it. Love you very much, and we'll see you in the new year. Is it 2017 yet? [music]

[END OF EPISODE]