The following lines contains multiple episode transcripts of a Dungeons and Dragons game played by a group of players. Each episode transcript is delimited by [START OF EPISODE] and [END OF EPISODE]. The transcripts are followed by a question about the game statistics. Answer the question based on the transcripts. Do not try to guess, estimate or approximate the result. Do not ask the user for clarification or follow-up. Do step-by-step reasoning if needed. Return the final answer in \boxed{{}}. 

The following lines contain the mapping between player names and character names.
Matt plays the character DM.
Laura plays the character Vex'ahlia.
Travis plays the character Grog.
Marisha plays the character Keyleth.
Orion plays the character Tiberius.
Taliesin plays the character Percy.
Liam plays the character Vax'ildan.
Sam plays the character Taryon.
Ashley plays the character Pike.
Felicia plays the character Lyra.
Mary plays the character Zahra.
Wil plays the character Thorbir.
Will plays the character Kashaw.
Kit plays the character Lillith.
Jason plays the character Garthok.
Chris hardwick plays the character Gern.
Chris perkins plays the character Shale.
Patrick plays the character Kerrek.
Noelle plays the character Tova.
Jon plays the character Lionel.
Darin plays the character Sprigg.
Joe plays the character Arkhan.

Use this mapping when answering the questions below.

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome back to Critical Role this week, ladies and gentlemen, where a bunch of us awesome voice actors get together and play Dungeons and Dragons weekly. We have the return of some of our fantastic guests from last week, but we'll get to them in just a second. But first, let's go ahead and get you started with our fancy intro. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back! (giggles) Welcome back. We got most everyone here right now. Travis is on his way. He flew all the way from Alaska, and thanks to some delays-- weather and everything-- he's getting here as fast as he can, so we may have a Grog arriving a little late during today's session.  Pretty late for today's session. But in the meantime, our illustrious Laura Bailey will be controlling Grog.
Laura: (Grog voice) I would like to rage!
Matt: Excited for that prospect. It should be a lot of fun. So also want to thank you again, our invited guests returning for their second week. We have Felicia Day and Mary Elizabeth McGlynn. Thank you, guys.
Mary: Pleasure is mine.
Laura: Pleasure.
Mary: Pleasure.
Felicia: Pleasure. I smell like peanut butter.
Matt: That's delightful.
Felicia: That's why I smelled my fingers earlier.
Mary: Is this a normal thing, or just today?
Felicia: I just was like, hi! (sniffs)
Sam: That's normally how people greet me.
Felicia: If you smelled like grape jelly, we would be BFFs! Anyway, hi.
Matt: So welcome back. Well, cool. Before we get into it, a couple of quick announcements. One. For every 100 subs that we get during the show tonight, we'll be giving away our packages that include a picture of the Critical Role cast, signed, a Player's Handbook for Dungeons and Dragons, signed by the cast of Critical Role. We'll also be giving away a copy of Felicia's awesome new book that she's about to go on a book tour for. (cheering)
Sam: And it doesn't look like some self-published thing, that looks like a real-- whoa!
Felicia: Not to insult self-published things, but it's legit. There is a sparkle on my dress. That is a very high-class sparkle.
Sam: Does it have a barcode on it?
Felicia: That is an android, that's why I look so trim there. Yeah, but the book's coming out on Tuesday! So I'll be going on book tour, so if you guys want to come see me, I'm going to 12 cities. Sorry Midwest. I'm sorry. You're so angry at me. Anyway, thank you, yeah.
Matt: Awesome, cool, well you guys get some copies of that coming through. We also have a bunch of other random goodies we'll be throwing in with these packages that include other awesome DND stuff and comics and it'll be a little surprise, so for every 100 subscribers, we'll be giving one of those packages away, so that'll be fun. Also wanted to do a quick announcement for one of our friends recently put up a project here. Marisha, if you want to do the intro.
Marisha: Yes! Hi everybody. Okay, so. Boonzy Arts-- they make geeky candles. They have a Kickstarter right now called Wheel of Flame, and they're making essentially DND thematic immersive candles that smell like the environments that you're in! This one is Dragon's Lair and it's smoky and musky.
Matt: We're going to be lighting this tonight.
Laura: Is there moldy dungeon smell?
Marisha: They're coming out with a few more because their Kickstarter's doing pretty well.
Matt: Basement tavern refuse candle.
Taliesin: Ogre's nest.
Marisha: I think they're making a tavern one.
Sam: Bed crap? (laughter)
Matt: That's a Critical Role exclusive. The Scanlan offshoot.
Marisha: Yeah, I think they have one that's Elven Forest, that smells like a forest and they have one that's Sorcerer's Lair, that smells like sage and stuff. But yeah, Wheel of Flame is their Kickstarter. Go check them out, I know they have a limited amount of candles they can give out. Also, there's a d20 hidden in every candle, so when the wax melts, you get a d20!
Laura: That's lovely.
Marisha: So yeah! Check them out. Wheel of Flame.
Matt: Great. Thank you, Marisha. (cheering)
Matt: So much flame. So yeah, for all you guys who pay the extra subscription dollars for the smell-o-vision twitch stream, you will be able to also experience the sensory death of the party.
Laura: Why would you say that?
Matt: You guys picked it. But yeah, so that's actually pretty cool. Hopefully there's not a flammable d20 in there somewhere. That would be problematic.
Felicia: That was weird.
Sam: That happens all the time.
Felicia: Is it really just random kiss-bys? Drive-by kiss?
Matt: Two weeks in a row. We already have a winner?
Zac: PrimeJohn1.
Matt: PrimeJohn1 is our first winner! Congratulations, PrimeJohn1.
Sam: PJ Uno!
Felicia: Did you have to rename him?
Sam: Well, I gave him a nickname to the nickname.
Felicia: That's really adorable. It's a sub-nickname.
Sam: A sub-nick! (laughter)
Felicia: It'll eventually just be like (grunts).
Matt: Awesome, so let's go ahead and jump in here. Anyone else have any other announcements they want to say before we get into the game?
Laura: Travis and I will be in Vancouver next weekend. Not this coming weekend, but the weekend after. But we're not going to be here next week, so yeah, should say that.
Matt: Awesome, so in Vancouver?
Laura: It's a con. And you should come say hi.
Matt: In Vancouver.
Laura: In Vancouver. Go look at my Twitter. You'll see what it is about.
Matt: There you go. Vancouver convention. Laura and Travis; it's going to be awesome. Also, me and Marisha are flying out early morning tomorrow to a convention called AkaiCon that's over in Tennessee, so we'll be there this weekend. So if any of you guys are over there on the eastern seaboard and that vicinity that want to come say hi and hang out with us for the weekend, we have a bunch of fun panels and stuff, so. AkaiCon. Come say hi.
Felicia: That smells delicious. I want to eat it. Or is that you? No, it's not you.
Sam: No, I rubbed peanut butter all over my chest. (laughs)
Matt: Homeopathic VapoRub, really.
Sam: Oh wow, I do smell it now. Yeah, that's nice.
Taliesin: Nothing fun right now.
Felicia: Does it smell like ogre butt, because isn't that what we're doing? Troll butt?
Matt: Oh, and I also wanted to give a big thanks out to Obsidian! They actually approved my use of the Pillars of Eternity soundtrack in our music for the show. So now I'll be able to use elements of their soundtrack for our game, so thank you guys. And I guess, let's get into this game. So. Where we left off. Our party of adventurers, Vox Machina, had broken a few rules in the city of Vasselheim and had actually infracted upon a contract for a guild of creature hunters known as the Slayer's Take. And this group essentially told Vox Machina that either they could go and be arrested for this and put on trial for breaking the law, or they could go and join the guild, as such could be included and written onto the contract and everything would be fine. So they decided to go that route. They inquired with the Huntmaster, and she basically told the party that they could join after they went through a trial where they had to complete a contract. However, she hand-chose and divided the party into two separate, smaller groups. The first group being the one that began playing with us last week, in which we had the illustrious Scanlan, Percy, Vex, and Grog paired up with two new adventurers, one of which was Zahra the tiefling warlock, who also is a prospective interested person to join the guild, the Slayer's Take, and Felicia's character, Lyra, the human wizard, who somehow became a member of the guild and is assigned on her first-ever excursion to lead this group towards the end of their contract. Now, you the audience chose the creature which they were going to hunt, and you voted on an adult white dragon. So they've been hunting that.
Laura: I didn't realize the audience chose that.
Felicia: Thanks, guys. (laughter)
Matt: So after stalking your way up the Glasswalk Road to the north of the city of Vasselheim, through the Vesper Timberlands, through the cold weather as you continue to travel northward on the word of a crazed gentleman in a tavern somewhere who supposedly saw a dragon, you managed to knock over your flask. You managed to see such a dragon skulking through the skies and actually attacking near where you were staying. While you were sleeping, a group of orcs and some ogrish creature and a dire wolf, attacked your group, you managed to slaughter the encroaching evils, rather rapidly in a daring display of butt-flap long-john Percy. (laughter)
Matt: Some majestic combat prowess you guys managed to completely eliminate. You interrogated one of the orcs before Grog decided to take his head off. It pushed you north, north-west direction within the forest itself. You managed to come upon what looked to be a perpetual blizzard that was blowing around this mountain range, and the dragon was sighted again taking its rest to the north part of this mountain. You pushed through the forest, managed to avoid a few possible dangerous situations, thanks to your ranger guiding you through her favored terrain, eventually coming upon the base of this mountain range. Now, you looked above and you saw what looked like the entrance to a cavern where at least the dragon seems to fly in and out of. It's a ways up the mountain, and there was a smaller cavern towards the base of the mountain. You went to inquire what was in there, at which point out of nowhere, a giant rock made of solid ice and stone was flung out of the forest, slamming into Vex, knocking her onto her ass and doing a decent amount of physical damage.
Laura: 30. 30 points.
Matt: 30 points physical damage to the ranger, at which point two frost giants seemed to, one coming out of that cavern, another seemed to be stalking through the woods, approached the party and that is where we left off. So to begin this, I would like everyone to roll initiative.
Felicia: But they're friendly. They look friendly.
Sam: Let's try reasoning with them. Whoa! That's not bad
Felicia: I'm not going to go last this time! (gasps)
Sam: There's a lot of gasping going on.
Felicia: It's not horrible but it's not (sharp gasp).
Matt: All right, so.
Sam: Wait, does Travis not--
Matt: Roll for Grog.
Laura: Roll for Grog.
Matt: Roll for Grog's initiative.
Laura: I rolled 18 for me. Oh, that's good. 19 for Grog.
Matt: All right, so we have 25 to 20, anyone?
Taliesin: 28.
Laura: What?!
Sam: He rolled a natural 20.
Taliesin: I rolled another natural 20.
Laura: Those dice are magic.
Taliesin: I sacrificed a small child to these dice.
Matt: So Percy's up first. Anybody else above 20?
Felicia: I rolled a 20, but I have a negative two initiative.
Matt: Okay. 19 or 18?
Laura: 19 for Grog. 18 for Vex.
Matt: And also for Lyra.
Felicia: 18 buddies.
Matt: (chuckling) That's sweet. So 15 to ten?
Sam: 15.
Laura: These are pretty good initiatives.
Mary: 13.
Sam: Hey, then we're all above 13, it's pretty good! This bodes well.
Mary: I have no initiative whatsoever. (laughter)
Matt: All right, that'll do. So at the top of the round as one giant has pulled itself out of the cavern and begins shouting over in Giant about the intruders. The secondary one that comes stalking out of the forest, both of them with these giant axes that are currently held on the side of leather belts (roars) give a bellowing scream and go charging into the fray. At the top of the round, though, Percy is ready. What have you got?
Taliesin: What is that strange orange thing, right here?
Matt: This is actually a tree.
Taliesin: That's a tree. Okay, good. So that's cover?
Matt: Yeah. This rock and these boulders here have some cover, but from a giant who has a very large perspective maybe not as much as you'd think.
Taliesin: Okay, so is there any way I can maybe get some partial cover right over here?
Matt: You could move over this way, yes.
Taliesin: Yeah. So I've got cover from the tree from this one until he moves, but I can see this guy?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: It is Bad News time! I'm going to bust out Bad News and take a shot.
Matt: All right, so. Rip out Bad News, uses one of your attacks, second attack prepares it. You're ready to fire, go ahead and shoot.
Taliesin: All right. They're pretty big, so I'm going to take the negative five to my attack bonus and see what that does. That's a 21.
Matt: 21 will hit.
Taliesin: That's a good shot. Oh yeah! That's 17, 27, plus-- 33 points of damage.
Matt: 33 points of damage? Nice. So you hear this loud, ringing explosion that echoes through this small valley at the base of the mountain, and from out the corner of your eye, it's the first time you've seen this weapon do its wonders. You see a flash of light, a plume of smoke goes up and you see this impossibly fast blast of some projectile go slamming into the shoulder of the giant over here that's currently reaching for a rock. It pushes him back against the wall, which prevents him from falling over and he catches himself. Looks back, and you can see there's a small crater in the armor where a little bit of blood begins to pour out, and a little bit of smoke seems to be pouring out of the impact. (snarls and yells) Gives out a really angry yell. You can see like spittle that begins to shake loose and spray from his mouth out of frustration. That the end of your turn?
Taliesin: That is the end of my turn. Yeah. I am now going, maybe I shouldn't have done that. (laughter)
Felicia: It was very impressive. It was very impressive.
Matt: All right, Grog's up first.
Laura: (Grog voice) Grog--
Sam: (Grog voice) Would like--
Laura: (Grog voice) No, Grog doesn't want to Rage! Grog shouts out in Giant, wait! My giant masters were killed by a white dragon, which we think is here. Will you help us fight him?
Matt: Okay. So as Grog stands there, shouting this out to both sides to the two giants, I want to have Grog go ahead and roll a persuasion check.
Laura: Okay. I am going to use Grog's dice.
Matt: Yes. Let's do this proper. This is customary.
Laura: It is proper. Wait. Okay. That's not his, that is mine.
Taliesin: (Grog voice) I would like to negotiate.
Laura: Okay. Well that is good. He is really happy that I am playing him, because I rolled a one for Grog.
Sam: It might work. (laughter)
Laura: I think I should not-- okay. Wait!
Mary: Doesn't Grog get two actions or no?
Laura: That's his action.
Matt: He is not putting up any aggressive action.
Laura: Does he get advantage, however, because he is speaking Giant and he's in the cold?
Matt: No. (laughter)
Matt: Because you have an entire band of seemingly advancing and armed individuals that are currently stalking towards what appears to be the home of these individuals. So unfortunately no. They seem unfazed, and the one at the back seems almost partially amused at this plea and you can see as he takes his axe and puts it up against his shoulder and runs it across the leather in a very aggressive, intimidating fashion as he stalks forward out of the forest.
Laura: (Grog voice) Can Grog move at all?
Matt: Yeah, would you like Grog to move? It would be easier.
Laura: (Grog voice) Where is he?
Matt: He is right here. He is hard to miss. Where would you like Grog to move? There is a giant rock there.
Laura: He is going to stay there.
Matt: Okay. Grog is going to stay up against the rock. His axe across the front. Right, that ends Grog's turn. Vex, you're up. (laughter)
Laura: A moment of silence for that horrible thing I just witnessed.
Matt: You are over here. You just got up off the ground after being slammed with a boulder, and you have Trinket there.
Laura: I am very hurt. Can I get up? Am I prone?
Matt: In the process you've gotten to your feet as they lurched forward and began shouting at each other about the intruders. So you are on your feet.
Laura: Okay. I am going to cast Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Hunter's Mark. On?
Laura: On the one that took a little damage already. And then I am going to shoot him. All these are for like really large groups of people. I am going to shoot him three times. Can I shoot him three times?
Matt: You have two attacks.
Laura: I'm going to shoot him two times. This was good times. This was fun, you guys. 14 for that. That probably doesn't hit. 14 also doesn't hit the second time. Oh my god! What is happening?! (laughter)
Sam: She just disappeared!
Mary: Vex! Vex, stay with us! Vex!
Matt: So as you get to your feet, you look over your shoulder, you point your finger out and as you squint down, you use your ranger focus to make sure this guy is your quarry, and you take a quick scope of his body parts. You're like, those are the areas that will make him weakest. As you go to pull your arrow, you can feel a kink in your shoulder. The impact of the rock seems to have affected you. You release the first arrow and it's just slightly off mark. The second one you pull back and as you release it, it actually splinters off his shield as he knocks it out of the air.
Laura: I am going to run over to cover. What is that other side?
Matt: That is one of the mountain outcroppings.
Laura: Yeah, I am going to hide in that little thing and go, Trinket hide with me.
Matt: Okay, Trinket moves up. (bear moan) All right, and that's your turn.
Laura: That's all of it.
Matt: (laughs) All right, Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: Okay, I am freaked out right now. These are very large individuals. I have only read about them, and they smell slightly like feet. So I am going to-- that is a stench. That is like an athlete's foot commercial waiting to happen. So I am going to take 10d6 and do Disintegrate.
Matt: Go for it.
Felicia: I mean, it seems excessive, but they're very large men! One, two, three, four, five-- That one, he looks like a bull. In the nether-regions.
Matt: So which one, this one or this one?
Felicia: I don't think I can reach that guy.
Matt: What's the distance on it?
Felicia: Oh boy.
Matt: At your spell sheet.
Felicia: I should've written that down. Disintegrate. Oh, there it is! 60 feet.
Matt: 60 feet? Yeah, they're both within range.
Felicia: Oh gosh, well I should probably hit the wounded one. That always makes RPG sense, right?
Matt: So for that one, do you have to make an actual spell attack roll?
Felicia: No, I don't. I think it's force damage.
Matt: That's right. You just point at it and he has to roll a saving throw.
Felicia: Oh yay! Look at that! Six! Six! Six!
Sam: Well, don't say that. (laughter)
Matt: All this time trying to fight the stigma of DND, and there we go.
Mary: Talking to my people here!
Felicia: All right. That's 20 plus-- now you're all staring at me! 30, 40 points of damage!
Sam: Whoa!
Matt: That's a total of 40? Plus 40?
Felicia: 40 plus 40.
Matt: Yeah, Disintegrate. And he failed his saving throw.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Felicia: In your anus! That's what she yells, she's like, in your anus!
Matt: So as she shouts, she points her finger out, there's a little poof of arcane energy on her finger, and a tiny, sickly green ray of energy just streaks forth from her finger. The giant looks at it awkwardly, and in the split second it hits him in the front of his chest and suddenly the armor in front of him turns to dust and you can see his flesh beginning to just disappear in front of him (gasps) and suddenly tries to gasp for air, as you see part of its jaw beginning to just turn to sand, and it's actually struggling in a series of pain, and it's still standing, but you can see a large part of its body now is just missing. It looks like it got-- it's almost like a portion of it rotted right before you, but there's no actual necrosis. It's just gone. Flesh is missing from a large part of its body. It looks like it's doing really poorly. It lurches forward, and one of its arms is not working as well and it looks at you with a look of confusion, frustration and "how could you?." It's incredulous in its torturous pain.
Felicia: And I go, (gibberish) in Giant and it's the only thing I know in Giant, and I think it says, you are my foe, and I actually say, my cat is your friend.
Matt: Its head turns even further to the side as the tongue lolls out of where the cheek once was.
Felicia: Take that!
Matt: (chuckles) Its angry white eyes glaring aggressively at you. Do you wish to move, or would you like to stay where you are?
Felicia: Oh, I think I'm going to duck behind that little outcropping I have.
Matt: Over here?
Felicia: Yeah, no, behind that little rock-- oh, where am I? Oh, I'm over there. Yeah, I'm going to get-- oh boy. Just stand there, I'm just too flushed right now. I can't go anywhere. This is too situational for me
Matt: All right. Well, (chuckles) this very unhappy giant is going to reach over with his one good arm, the other one's clutching the axe, it reaches over and grabs another rock off the ground that it can find nearby and (whoosh) flings it at you.
Felicia: I should have moved! (laughter)
Matt: That is a 16. What's your armor class?
Felicia: 13.
Matt: Yeah. You, unable to really move out of the way, you look over and just watch it come toward you as it slowly spins in the air. Time seems to slow as you make no intent to shift out of the way. (whack) It slams into you, physical pain not hitting in as the immediate look of-- the sight of white, your vision is knocked to nothingness briefly. You end up taking--
Mary: No, Lyra, no.
Matt: Okay, you take 32 points of bludgeoning damage.
Felicia: Whoa! That is a very intense amount of damage for a tiny woman. Okay.
Laura: You should avoid those boulders in the future.
Matt: And as soon as you recover from it, your vision clarifies and you're able to see everything before you, and you see that same giant is stalking up, right into your face, with its axe in its bad hand. It switches it into its good hand and rears it up preparing itself for another round. That ends that giant's turn. It's going to go five, six and move in between the two of you. You guys, Zahra and Scanlan, as you see this happening you hear the (heavy steps) heavy footfalls behind you, and you look over your shoulder as the second giant comes up with the shield in one arm. Axe is going to go ahead and giant swing towards the two of you. That is going to be a 19 to hit on you, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh yeah.
Matt: And Zahra, that is going to be a-- that's a 25. All right. (laughter)
Matt: 27 points of slashing damage to you, Scanlan. Ooh. All right. And that is 31 points of slashing damage to you, Zahra. As it just (whack), cleaves through the both of you. You are almost knocked off your feet from the sheer blow. Most of the armor takes the damage but you can feel a heavy bruise, and underneath your armor you can feel a little bit of the blood beginning to soak through from the severe impact. Part of the armor plating might have cut into part of your torso (grunts) but you right yourself there. That ends their turn. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. Hey, question. If I hold a turn, do I hold the whole turn? Can I hold my action but do the bonus action? How does it work?
Matt: You got to take all your turn at once. You can hold your initiative. Meaning you can wait to activate your turn later in the tier, but you can't piecemeal your actions.
Sam: Okay, then I am going to just move. I am going to act. I am going to do things. So I turn to the guy who just hit me, and I am going to cast Dominate Person on him. I will sing some sort of song to dominate him with.
Matt: I will say, Dominate Person is effective against humanoids.
Sam: (gasps) Really?!
Matt: Dominate Monster would be--
Sam: They're not humanoid?
Matt: They are not. They are considered giants. They are a different species. You would know that.
Sam: I would know that. Well, then, I guess I won't do that.
Matt: You turn, and your instinct is there, and you're like, these are a little out of your reach as far as that spell is concerned.
Sam: Okay. (laughter)
Mary: It is a very short show tonight.
Sam: Yeah. Okay, well, then we just die. (laughter)
Matt: You've got options!
Sam: Yeah, no, I have options. I'll be fine. Should I go for the guy who-- I'll do (blows raspberry). I'll cast Lightning Bolt on him. That's always a good go-to.
Matt: So as you fumble with the idea of what spell would work, you release a bolt of lightning up towards it. It streaks into the front of its chest and shoulder area. You can see its muscles tense and shake from the sheer amount of electricity that courses into it. It does not make that saving throw, not with a five. So go ahead and roll your damage.
Sam: Is it six or eight?
Matt: It's 8d6.
Sam: Thank you! Okay. Six, six, four. What is that?
Felicia: Six.
Sam: Oh, really? Oh, that's awesome! Now I lost track. 32.
Matt: 32 points of damage. Nice! So as you release the torrent of electrical energy, it courses through the body and ends up streaking off into the snowy, blizzardy sky behind the giant from the upward angle. It (grunts) shakes from the impact, and then rights itself and looks down at you with a really angry face. You can see as it opens its mouth, this light blue and dark teeth on the bottom of its beard-covered jaw. Mist and steam tend to pour out of its mouth. But not like heated steam, this is like a cold air itself that it seems to emanate from it. Its pale whitish-blue hair, slightly framing its form. Up close, at its sheer size, this is a very intimidating creature, as it just stares down looming over you, now with smoke pouring off its shoulder where you impacted it with the Lightning Bolt. Do you want to do any--
Sam: I would like to inspire our new fellow, Zahra, with a quick little ditty. (singing) Ooh, you so scary, ooh, you so scary, ooh, you so scary. You fighty long time. (laughter)
Matt: All right. So you go ahead and take a d10 inspiration dice. Which means, whenever you have to roll an attack roll or saving throw, you can add a d10 to the result you get if you don't think it's going to make it. You don't roll it now, but you just have it on reserve whenever you want to use it.
Mary: Love it.
Sam: And if I move away from him he'll hit me?
Matt: He'll get an attack of opportunity, yes.
Sam: Can I snuggle between his legs and maybe he'll forget I'm there?
Felicia: He's hung like a horse.
Taliesin: You're going to hit yourself in the head
Mary: Swing on it, man. Swing on it. (laughter)
Mary: Yes! Yes, Scanlan!
Matt: Do you want to try and do that?
Sam: It might anger him? Or it might entice him. (laughter)
Sam: I'll just stay put.
Matt: All right. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: All right, I have a question. Do they understand English?
Matt: You are not aware, actually.
Laura: But he said intruder when we came in.
Matt: You heard him say it in Giant. It was understood by Grog that it was intruder.
Mary: All right. They're both within about 30 feet of me, yes?
Matt: Yes. They're both within 30 feet of you
Mary: All right! I'm going to use one of my skills that I have which it doesn't expel a spell slot and use Awakened Mind and touch them both with telekinesis, and in doing so I shall cast Mass Suggestion, and I shall say to them, you will take us to your enemy, the white dragon, and there we shall slay it together. Then you shall return us here safely, where we shall part as friends bonded forever in the slaying of a common enemy.
Matt: All right. As you're looking out at the two of them, you release this energy, speaking through your mind, reaching out to theirs. What is the DC of your spell? It should be at the top of your spell list, the difficulty class.
Sam: Spell save DC. Top right.
Laura: Spell save DC is a 17.
Matt: 17, all right. So both of them seem to--
Laura: Can you add your inspiration? Add your inspiration!
Matt: Inspiration has to be added to a roll.
Mary: My charisma is added to any spell that I cast.
Matt: Well, that's included with the DC there. So both of them reach up and grab their faces, one with its messed up, partially disintegrated hand and falls back on its back foot and both of them look at the group in confusion. There definitely seems to be some sort of interference with their current actions based on this spell; there is a conflict within them. That's as much as I can tell you right now at the moment. That's your action. Do you want to do anything else? You can still move. You still have a bonus action, if you want
Mary: What do you mean bonus action?
Matt: Your Hex is a bonus action, but that is a spell, as well.
Mary: If I move away from them though...
Laura: He can hit you.
Taliesin: If he's going to hit you. He might not.
Laura: That's true! Your spell might have worked.
Mary: I shall go and protect Scanlan, underneath the legs of that giant.
Matt: So you move in to help defend Scanlan.
Mary: He's so tiny, I love little guys. I always have.
Sam: She's a mother figure.
Matt: All right, so both of them seem to be looking around themselves, slightly confused and taking in some sort of strange circumstance. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to hold my turn.
Matt: Okay, Percy's holding initiative. Grog.
Laura: Should I say, in Giant, (in Grog voice) What say you? Let's fight this bastard. Together.
Matt: All right, they look at Grog, confused. Look at each other again. That's Grog's turn, Vex?
Laura: Seriously? While everybody's having a conversation, I would like to take a healing potion.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and take one of those
Laura: Okay. How much do I take for a superior?
Matt: Superior? Superior is 8d4 plus eight. It's quite a bit.
Laura: It is, so just regular healing potion for now. Which is what, 2d8?
Matt: A regular is 2d4 plus two.
Laura: Yay! That's good.
Matt: Lyra.
Felicia: I'm confused. But I do not feel good; I might throw up. So I'm going to hold my turn to see what happens.
Matt: Go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Felicia: Oh, good.
Sam: Oh, for the barf.
Felicia: Oh, it's a five! Constitution five. It's a ten.
Matt: You covertly do your best to not reveal to the entire group that you make a little greenish-brown snow. (laughter)
Matt: It is the most adorable barfing sound you guys have ever heard, though. The combination of the stress and the smell, it's been a harrowing experience for Lyra in these past few minutes. At this point in time, as it comes to the giants' turn. The one who is messed up looks over to the other and (sighs) puts the axe into his belt loop, and the other also one puts its axe in the belt loop, and they glare at the rest of the group, and say in Giant, (gibberish). And any of you speak Giant? Or just Grog.
Laura: Grog.
Matt: Grog translates. Essentially, they say, "We will take you but it is at your own folly."
Laura: (in Grog voice) They'll take us, but it is at our own folly.
Sam: Take us as in-- Grog, can you ask them, take us as in lead us or on their back?
Laura: (strangled gibberish) Which translates to, take us as in lead us or carry us on your back?
Matt: They both chuckle to themselves, and they start walking in towards the cavern.
Laura: Wait! Can we rest a little before we go fight this thing so we can get spell slots back and heal?
Matt: That's up to you guys.
Laura: Can we? Yes! Yes!
Felicia: Up to 24 hours. This one lasts the whole day. Yeah, can we?
Matt: It lasts for 24 hours.
Mary: Mass Suggestion lasts for 24 hours.
Sam: Oh, that is good information.
Mary: Oh and very important  none of us can damage these two giants. Anything else can, we're fine, but should any of us damage it, the spell is poof.
Laura: Are they going to fight with us? Grog? Will you ask them if they're going to fight with us? (gibberish)
Matt: How does it go, again?
Laura: (repeats previous gibberish)
Matt: Right. One of them looks over the shoulder as it's walking into the cavern and puts its hand on the top and leans over and its voice, and I will say from this point forth it is translated to make it easier.
Sam: Just like in Hunt for Red October?
Matt: Yeah basically. "We take you but that is as much as you get. The rest is your own choice. Perhaps the dragon will eat you. That'll keep it satiated for a while." It steps inside the cavern.
Laura: (Grog voice) I think that's a no.
Felicia: Yeah. And I say (speaks gibberish). My cat is your friend!
Taliesin: Bless you!
Matt: (laughs) As you say that, one walks inside. The one that you partially disintegrated earlier steps out and goes, (spitting noise) and spits a-- what in midair looks like liquid and then (shattering) shatters into almost like crystalline ice as it hits the ground on a rock.
Felicia: It is just rude. He smells so much like feet.
Sam: We'll Mass Suggest that they take a bath later.
Taliesin: Let's take a breather. For a moment, collect ourselves.
Laura: I wish I wouldn't have wasted a healing potion just then because we can take some--
Felicia: We can heal our 1d6 plus three.
Matt: So as you guys step inside the cavern. You guys are taking a short rest, currently?
Sam: Short rest.
Matt: All right, so the giants are just sitting there waiting, arms crossed against the wall, talking quietly to each other as the rest of you sit down and bandage your wounds. You tend to your adrenaline as it slowly wears off and suddenly the pain starts to set in from some of the wounds you've taken. So you guys can use as many hit dice as you want to heal yourselves.
Mary: So what do I do?
Laura: You roll a d8. You can roll up to 11d8, plus two for each time.
Sam: Hey, DM.
Matt: Yes?
Sam: How many hit points do I have?
Matt: You haven't taken damage at this point.
Sam: Have they increased at all?
Matt: That is true. You leveled up after the last one. So with this short rest I will say go ahead and roll an additional-- for a bard I think it is a d8, correct?
Sam: I don't know.
Matt: What's your hit dice number?
Sam: d8.
Matt: And what's your constitution?
Sam: 15. Plus two.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll a d8 plus two to it
Sam: Four.
Matt: All right, so you add four hit points to your total hit point maximum. Welcome to level 11, Scanlan. (cheering and singing Super Mario victory ditty)
Matt: You also get access to your first 6th-level spell.
Mary: What!?
Laura: What? Get some stuff before we fight a dragon, yo.
Sam: I got it already. I am ready to rock.
Matt: Good. Good choice. You take the next half an hour or so to rest up. You still used your Disintegrate. You need to do a whole night's rest to get that back.
Felicia: Oh! I don't get it? It's six spell levels.
Matt: It is six spell levels you can get back on a short rest?
Felicia: Short rest. Recover six spell levels because I have arcane recovery. So I can actually get that back
Matt: (singing) Wizards are awesome!
Laura: (Grog voice) Grog would like to take his Chain of Returning off of one of the axes he had it on and put onto the Firebrand Warhammer that he took off of that dwarf in Kraghammer.
Matt: All righty, I like it.
Laura: The mean guy he took it off.
Matt: Off of, that was King Murghol, I think, wasn't it? The duergar king you fought in the Underdark.
Mary: I have a question. So I rolled to get my health back and I got more hit points than I had before--
Matt: You can't go more than your maximum. You're at full hit points now.
Taliesin: I want to borrow Grog for just a second and ask these two if they've encountered the dragon before, and what its disposition is. Anything we should know.
Matt: I want you to go ahead, and I will say through Grog-- this is going to be interesting. Since Grog is translating, I'm going to go ahead and have you roll a persuasion check.
Felicia: Wrong dice! Why did you use that dice?
Taliesin: I was feeling weak. Ten.
Matt: Ten. And I want you to roll a persuasion check for Grog with disadvantage.
Laura: Great. Oh, that was a good roll, come on also good roll.
Felicia: It wasn't a good roll. I see a face there.
Taliesin: It was a one, wasn't it?
Laura: It was a one.
Matt: All the crits were last week.
Taliesin: This is my fault. This is all my fault.
Felicia: You are a plague. Your good fortune is a plague upon your friends.
Laura: Travis is going to be so pissed when he gets here.
Matt: I know.
Sam: He'll be dead by the time he gets here
Laura: His flight landed. I got a text. His flight has landed. He's on his way.
Matt: Great, awesome. As Grog finishes translating (gibberish) to the giants, the giants chuckle to themselves and the other one says down to him, what he translates for you, the equivalent of, "There's no help here. They killed our people, but we're alive because we serve it. We'll bring you, like we promised, like we brought all the others."
Laura: They serve the dragon?
Felicia: Can we look around? Are there any dragon tips around?
Matt: You took a rest inside the cavern as you just entered the mountain and at this point as you guys step up the giants are leading you further into the cavern.
Mary: May I talk to him, as well?
Matt: You know Giant?
Mary: No, through Grog. I have telekinesis, so can I speak to one of them?
Matt: Well, telekinesis and telepathy are different things.
Mary: Oh, I mean, I have Awakened Mind.
Matt: Oh right. So you can speak directly to their minds
Mary: Yes. Your people have been persecuted for so long, and you have lost so many of the female version of you, and your children, and you serve them now. Do you want to live as slaves?
Matt: "We want to live."
Mary: So to live as a slave is better than--
Matt: "To not live at all?"
Mary: We are offering you the opportunity to stop your servitude. To end it forever.
Matt: (grunts) They keep walking
Laura: What?
Matt: We'll see how this plays out. This is a process here. You guys heavily failed some early persuasion rolls here, they're in a very negative position with you right now.
Laura: Sorry about that.
Felicia: Let's not bring it up again. I love your hair.
Sam: It's really cool.
Matt: So about 200 feet further into this cavern, the tunnel opens up into a gargantuan natural rock chamber, coated in ice crystals across the entirety of the rounded crag in the ceiling. You can see now as the light you're bringing into-- by the way, is anyone bringing a source of light other than the torchlight?
Laura: Yes, Grog lights his blazing axe.
Mary: And I cast Light on my dark dragon staff.
Matt: All right, so between the (whoosh) now the fire that is now burning off of the warhammer and your Light spell, you can see as you enter following these giants, there are definitely the remnants of a village here, a village that was designed on the scale of these giants and while many of these structures still stand, it is eerily quiet as you step inside. As you begin to step further into the center of this cavern, you see many of these structures have been smashed and destroyed and there is a layer of ice and snow that has been carried in from various blizzard winds or just the internal temperature in this room. And the room is extremely cold. With the little bit of light you have, everyone's breath is very clearly visible with each puff into the air around, and you swear that in a few pockets here it is so cold that you can hear the moisture from your breath coalesce and then shatter on the ground. You all bundle up even tighter with your various furs.
Laura: I snuggle very close to Trinket.
Matt: Trinket snuggles very close to you because Trinket, while made for this type of temperature, is still uncomfortably cold, even at this point.
Sam: Did Lyra give me--
Felicia: I did! I gave you my stone. My Transmutation Stone, which helps you resist cold.
Sam: Wow, I feel so warm and cuddly.
Felicia: Well, don't brag about it. Oh my gosh, my mom told me never bring-- well, she's dead, but before she died, she told me if you can't bring one for everybody, don't bring any. So just be quiet about it.
Sam: Okay. I'm sorry. I was just distracted because we're in a dire situation and I miss the love of my life, Pike. I'm sure you can't identify with that.
Felicia: Oh no! I was just thinking the other day, just outside the cavern, if Aldor was here--
Sam: Aldor?
Felicia: Yes! Did I tell you about him?
Sam: A little.
Felicia: He smells like sandalwood and dismissiveness, but that's okay. We'll get over that.
Sam: Well, we have something in common then and thank you for your stone of warmth or whatever it was.
Felicia: It's a cold resistance.
Sam: I'll just call it a stone of warmth.
Matt: There is no character class more dangerous in DND than mother. (laughter)
Matt: Do not have children if you are ever in a fantasy genre or anything. You ain't getting past 30.
Mary: May I again, sorry, use Awakened Mind to ask the giant what happened here?
Matt: As they begin walking through and looking about, one of them starts giving you these images, and it's less of a language and it's more of a series of memories. And you see visions of a time not long ago. Months, even years. This relatively thriving village of frost giants that had essentially claimed this mountain as their own for generations. Hunting in the nearby Vesper Timberland, occasionally harrowing the traveling merchant band heading up the Glasswalk Path or various other entities that live in this forest. They're not by any means a good people. They exist and they take what they want, but it appears that not long ago this dragon decided that it wanted to live here instead. And you see visions of it stalking through the tunnels, carving its way through the ice and ambushing this frost giant village. You see visions of it tearing into families of them and freezing them on the spot, which is interesting because you see, these giants seem pretty well-adapted to ice and cold weather. It seems it is less of a freezing them physically and more of locking them into place. And as you see these visions, you begin to step further into this village and you can see there are spires, large spires of crystallized ice, and loosely within the shadows of the ice you can see what looks like the suffocated forms of frost giants that are locked in that position under many feet of ice. You see most of this village brought to its knees and destroyed, murdered, eaten, or imprisoned and these two, essentially chosen to survive and given the order to bring what this creature wants.
Mary: There's only two of you left?
Matt: You get this sense of sadness and fear, but also a sense of a lack of any other option.
Mary: Oh, how I wish we could release you from these bonds.
Laura: Is there a way to, like, melt the spires? (whispers) I interrupted you.
Mary: To release them.
Felicia: They are dead in there though, right?
Mary: No, I know but at least maybe they could-- Do you have some burial ritual or anything that you would like to or do these stand as a painful remembrance for you?
Matt: There is a moment where it seems almost like it's going to answer, and then the mind closes off suddenly. There is a defensiveness and these entities, you get the sense that even this tenuous relationship you have built with them is based purely on arcane persuasion, and the more you pry, the more you begin to test the boundaries of what you have done. Pick and choose your words very carefully.
Mary: Zahra sheds a tear, which freezes instantly on her face, and her internal flame melts it off.
Laura: That's pretty badass.
Matt: As you continue to walk, you can see the center of this village is completely in tatters. A lot of the wood and the dried brush and the furs and thick leathers that these giants had gathered and constructed their civilization out of is all just shattered and rended to the floor and then frozen over, left in this weird picturesque, almost a tapestry. A frozen moment in time of utter desolation. Actually, I want you to all to roll a perception check, if you could.
Taliesin: 17.
Felicia: 14.
Sam: 20.
Laura: Oh! No we're not in-- 14.
Mary: Uno.
Matt: Wow, getting the ones out. So as you guys are walking forward, Scanlan, you notice that there is, just outside the light perception stepping forward, a lot of the rubble has been pushed and coalesced into a central monolith. Almost like a 25, 30 foot sculpture of chaos. All of these things have been matted together with what looks like mud and refuse, and as you guys begin to notice this, too, you catch the framing of the light on it and it seems to be built into almost an altar or a large sculpture of worship of a winged dragon creature that is currently in the process of swooping down. You get the sensation that this was built as, essentially, a place of offering to this white dragon, and hopefully a symbol to keep themselves alive and to prove their fealty to this entity.
Felicia: I have a spell called Legend Lore. Can I cast that on white dragon?
Matt: Let's see what Legend Lore does.
Felicia: The spell brings to your mind a brief summary of the significant lore about the thing you named: current tales, forgotten stories, secret lore that has never been widely known. If it is not of legendary importance, you gain no information. Would I think that this is a legendary dragon?
Matt: Okay. As you take a moment and everyone stops to look around, you notice that Lyra is sitting there currently muttering to herself and putting her fingers through the air, and you can see these small arcane sigils begin to flash in the air where she places her hands, at which point her eyes glaze over with this shimmering gold energy and she seems to go into a trance. Now, what you first are hit with is the image of darkness, black and struggle, a struggle to push, a struggle to exist, a struggle to survive, and then suddenly light. You see the cracking of something releasing, and from there pulling forth from this singular egg, the only one left of its clutch, a white dragon wyrmling pulling itself out of the egg. This, you immediately sense, is the dragon that now resides within this mountain. You begin to see flashes in time of it struggling to survive in the frozen tundra to the north, desperately trying to escape poachers and individuals trying to hunt it, whether to protect their own villages or to use its physical body parts in some sort of sale. You get the sense that at one point it was already the target of some contract that failed. For a brief second, you see a flash of a frozen cavern recently, and a few individuals locked in an icy prison bitten down on and shattered before it cuts to black again. You begin to see moments of this dragon growing, and with each stage in its physical transformation towards becoming a full-fledged adult dragon there is just spite, there is anger, there is ego, there is a severe sense of self-importance, a lust for others to bow before, serve, or feed it. And you have heard and you have read many things about dragons and you have heard things of great intelligence and articulate entities that even, good or evil themselves, have this extremely intelligent presence. This dragon is far more feral and bestial than anything you've read about. It has an intelligence, but it seems to not be concerned with the intricacies of conversation as much as it is to bend everything to its will and to give (voices deepens) to me. (normally) And the one thing that catches your mind before the spell ends is the name that it finally came upon itself, the name that it heard whispered as one of its would-be hunters was suddenly--
Sam: Jeff. (laughter)
Matt: Jeff the dragon. The name Rimefang rings through your mind.
Felicia: His name is Rimefang.
Matt: The two frost giants stop their walking and turn. "Rimefang." They nod and look up to the giant structure they constructed.
Felicia: Oh wow! Can I make a history to sww if I know anyone in the guild who has been named Rimefang?
Matt: Make a history check on this.
Felicia: It's a 21.
Matt: Okay, Rimefang, you gather, is the name of the dragon proper. And there's another drink for you guys out there. They made fun of me for using the word proper.
Sam: Drink!
Matt: This dragon took the name Rimefang. Because in a lot of dragons as they evolve and begin to really create a lair, they really make themselves known publicly and really draw the fear out once they feel they're in a comfortable position. You feel this dragon is just starting to get to that point where it's eager to drive fear into the local populace. From your history check, you do know that there is, somewhere in the books you've gone through, a similar contract, nothing Rimefang related, but there was a white dragon that was supposedly hunted about eight, nine months back, and the team never returned. And you begin to think, "Wait, so if a team of really practiced people never returned from this contract, and we were sent on this as an entry level..."
Felicia: Hey, guys? I have a suspicion that maybe the guild didn't want us to succeed. And I don't want to panic anybody. I just don't think Vanessa--
Mary: Lyra, do you have any enemies in the guild?
Felicia: Well. Everyone seems to be very-- I make a very good soup and I help people with their laundry sometimes and--
Laura: Oh, are you like an assistant?
Felicia: No, I'm a guild member, I just like to be helpful. Like you guys.
Laura: I was just wondering.
Felicia: Well, they just don't send me anywhere. It's a paperwork thing.
Mary: If you don't mind my asking because I do respect you so much, how did your captainship of our crew come about?
Felicia: Well, I got a missive, I got a scroll in my room and the first assignment. I mean, it was very exciting to me and they haven't really paid attention to me. Mertin is very nice to me but Vanessa-- she just has her days, and I've been asking her for so long, and finally I got my assignment. I was hoping Aldor would be here, but he isn't, and that's fine. It'll be the next one. But there may not be a next one, guys. That's what I'm saying.
Mary: Oh, were you Vanessa's assistant? I mean, before you were a member?
Felicia: No. Aldor. I'm here with Aldor, remember?
Sam: If you think we've been sent on some sort of suicide mission--
Felicia: Oh, that's good, the way you put it there!
Sam: Well, I'm a master of words. Should we abandon all hope and just flee? Is that what you're suggesting as our leader? Or should we carry it through and prove everyone wrong?
Felicia: If we abandon this quest, then we never-- I could get kicked out of the guild, for one.
Laura: What happens if the contract that we magically signed doesn't ever come to fruition?
Felicia: It's not good. Let me think.
Sam: You know what? Retrace your steps.
Matt: There you go. In Memento fashion, all these things flash through. If a contract is broken, one: if you're a member of the guild, you're kicked out of the guild. Two: you guys are on this essentially as a trial basis to prevent being arrested and put on trial for breaking the laws of the city of Vasselheim and essentially hunting creatures that aren't sanctified. Or you yourself have not been sanctified to kill, which goes against guild rules and the city itself. Which means if you were to not succeed at the contract, you would probably be put on trial at the seat of judgment.
Laura: Percy is very good at lawyering.
Taliesin: I am. I lawyer quite well, but the hope is that we wouldn't actually break the contract in the first place, because that's complicated.
Mary: I wasn't part of this band of breaking the law. I'm here to gain entry into this guild.
Felicia: Well, you certainly won't get into the guild if you break the contract.
Mary: No, I completely understand, but I won't be brought to trial. Not that I'm all, "well it's all about me," but I'm serious. That's why I'm here! My motivations are not to save my ass, my motivations are to get into this bloody guild!
Taliesin: We're not here based on other people's expectations. We're here because we thought we could handle this and nothing has changed. This changes nothing!
Laura: We are very capable fighters!
Mary: I've seen this. You have proven yourselves already. Those orcs didn't stand a bloody chance.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Felicia: So we go?
Sam: We go. Well actually, Grog-- could someone ask Ace and Gary if we're there or if we have further to travel?
Felicia: We'll just keep going.
Matt: As Grog mentions this, you guys have moved past most of the village, and you've gone towards the back of this large chamber, and you do see what appears to be a tunnel that ascends upwards, deeper into the mountain proper. See, did it again. It's made me all self-conscious. But the entrance is entirely frozen. There is a wall of solid ice between yourselves and the continuation of this tunnel.
Laura: (Grog voice) How thick is it?
Matt: It's hard to see how thick it is from this side.
Laura: (Grog voice) Can Grog run at it and try to bash it really fast?
Matt: So as you guys step up, Grog runs ahead of the rest of the giants and goes as hard as he can towards this. (laughs) So swinging with the axe towards the ice. Go ahead and make an attack roll.
Laura: It's a hammer, which I feel would be better against ice.
Matt: This giant flaming warhammer from King Murghol.
Laura: I feel like every dice is betraying me.
Taliesin: Would you like to use mine?
Laura: No, I'm going to curse yours.
Matt: No, turn it around. Shake the Wil Wheaton curse.
Laura: I'll just leave it at that. It slipped out of my hands, but I'm going to keep it. 15 plus what, eight? Plus nine?
Matt: Plus nine. That'll definitely hit. Go ahead and roll damage for that.
Laura: Okay. Here we go.
Sam: I hope he can hit a wall.
Laura: I don't know, with my ones as of late. Oh, that's just ten.
Matt: Ten damage? Including the fire damage?
Laura: Oh, yes, right. 13.
Matt: 13 damage. (whack) The warhammer streaks through, the light causing this interesting shifting of the radius around it. As it smacks into the ice with this resounding (thwack) sound, the ice shakes and shimmers. A giant crack forms up the front of it, and you can see as he (grunts) pulls it out, the wall itself seems to have largely crumbled in the small space there and looks very fragile. But it's definitely left an impact on the wall.
Taliesin: I can make an attempt at this. I'm going to walk over and study the shattering position and see if I can find the weak point in the wall.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Seven. Getting it all out of my system now.
Matt: The ice wall itself is not a specific architectural structure. It is made of some sort of blasting of ice that froze the air in that way, so it doesn't have any real geometric positioning, but the ice structure itself, you're unable to make out what would be a weak point or not, other than the place of impact where Grog placed the hammer.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a musket ball, go over to the very center of the crack.
Laura: Should we keep a little more quiet than that?
Felicia: Can I use a Fire Bolt? That would be good, a Fire Bolt.
Taliesin: Let's save the Fire Bolt.
Felicia: No, it's a cantrip. Is that okay?
Taliesin: I'm backing up.
Felicia: I'm the leader. I'm going to say I'm going to.
Taliesin: She said, Fire Bolt. I backed away.
Felicia: And that is 1d8 fire damage, which is seven. Seven fire damage.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll to see if you hit with it. So roll and add your spell attack modifier.
Felicia: What is that? Oh, it's 12... plus 11. So that is 23.
Matt: All right, that definitely hits. How much damage? That was seven fire damage, you said?
Felicia: Oh, it's 3d10 fire. Sorry. Because of my level. Which is seven and five and seven is 19.
Matt: Clutching your staff at one side, the book's under your shoulder, you bring your hand out and withdraw your hand with the force of the blast of the Fire Bolt going forward. As it smacks into the section where Grog had slammed the hammer, (boof) it bursts as a flash of arcane reddish fiery energy, and the wall itself shatters inward and starts falling and crumbling nearby. Now, this tall wall, which was about 25 feet tall, begins to fall in giant chunks.
Felicia: (yelps) Sorry!
Matt: I'm going to go ahead and have Lyra and Percy and Grog all make dexterity saving throws.
Felicia: Oh, I'm so good at that, with the negatives. Oh!
Laura: 19!
Taliesin: I can't use acrobatics?
Matt: No, not for this.
Laura: 21 for Grog.
Felicia: I rolled a zero, because I've got a negative two. It's not even on the dice!
Matt: Percy?
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: All right, so.
Felicia: Is that worse than a critical fail?
Matt: As the whole wall just (shattering noise) breaking and falling down around you, you all go rushing backward. Grog, strangely and unexpectedly, shoulder-rolls out of the way, epic Geordi La Forge style. Escapes the crumbling wall. Unfortunately, though, Lyra and Percy stumble backward, slipping on the ice that's actually coated the floor of this cavern, and get impacted with part of the fall. It's not too bad, but both of you suffer 14 points of cold damage and bludgeoning. Cold and bludgeoning, as the wall comes tumbling down on you. However, the rest of the cavern now lies open with pieces of jagged ice almost like a broken glass window itself framing the exterior of this tunnel.
Felicia: I'm not going to go to the front anymore, guys.
Sam: Well, you're the leader, shouldn't you be--
Laura: We should protect her. She should be towards the back.
Taliesin: I'm going to heal really quickly.
Matt: Take another short rest?
Laura: We should take a short rest so that we're going in, you know.
Felicia: Yeah. I had scoliosis as a child. I'm not nimble. It's funny.
Mary: Before we take a short rest may I, again, use Awakened Mind, just to see how far away we are.
Matt: You get an image of a slowly ascending and spiraling tunnel that ascends towards an upper cavern at the top of the mountain. The upper cavern you only get a few glimpses of as they themselves have only had a few glimpses of it, but it appears this is not the only obstacle in the way.
Mary: Oh, good.
Sam: Let's carry on then.
Laura: Could you see when you were looking into their mind if it is open or if it is just a big cavern?
Mary: I could not see.
Matt: From the best vantage point you could see, it was a chamber about, I'd say 80 to 85 feet to the ceiling, lined with jagged ice crystals that are coalesced in a temperature so cold that it's almost like the inside of a geode, but it's all made of ice. But you see multiple platforms that are risen in the walls of this, and in the center, there is a singular platform, and there sitting on the top of it is apparently the dragon quarry you seek. And then the image shuts itself out, as one of them glances over the shoulder. It's growing uncomfortable with sharing information.
Mary: Got it. I thank him in my mind.
Matt: All right. Pressing forward, you can see one giant still dragging itself forward with a portion of its physical body essentially gutted.
Mary: What if we gave him a half healing potion?
Sam: Don't mess with the magic.
Laura: Because, here's the thing. If they fight with us, it's great, but if they turn on us then we are going to have to fight them at full power again.
Mary: Yeah, but we have 24 hours.
Sam: Yes, but the healing potion might do something. Let's just keep going. You are a very kind soul.
Matt: So are you guys taking a short rest to heal up? Okay. If you haven't already rolled your dice-- You healed up now? Perfect. All right, so as you guys continue to trudge up this extremely cold-- let me see. I think it'll be a fun one to-- There we go. You guys continue to ascend up this pitch-black cavern here. It appears that both the giants and the dragon do not need light to make their way through this cavern structure. So you are the small beads of visual lightness in the entire structure. The floor itself is slick, and there are bits of rough rock that you can find foot purchase but there are a few moments where some of you slip and you lose about ten feet and then catch yourself and have to move upward with this slight 35-degree incline, slowly spiraling upward. You push forward for about 30 minutes or so in this long, seemingly-- for lack of a better term, there isn't a lot of changed variation to it; it's just a gradual spiral in itself.
Laura: I want to keep perception out to make sure that nothing is ahead of us.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a perception check.
Laura: Okay, but this is pertaining to dragons. He is one of my favored enemies, so I have additional bonuses to tracking him and insight against him. Favored enemies!
Matt: All right. So you're perceiving anything dragon-related and things that would be a forewarning of a dragon, okay.
Laura: Things he would have laid down for us. Stuff like that.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll again. You have an advantage.
Laura: You know, just to see. Okay. 18?
Matt: Okay. Glancing about, you do see there are claw marks along the walls, you can see where portions of this cavern were carved out by the claws of Rimefang. You can see that occasionally there are pieces of frozen rock that are solid ice, some that appear to be an unthawed chunk of flesh of some kind. As you push further up this cavern, you spot what looks like the lower half of a statue.
Felicia: Ugh. That's a-- oh my god.
Taliesin: That's unpleasant.
Laura: Half of a giant, right?
Matt: This appears to be a frost giant that met its end. The actual lower half of the torso itself is giving off a stench of slowly rotting flesh. There is ice encasing the lower half of it. It's interesting because the physical form of the frost giants resist cold naturally, and this temperature would normally freeze any other flesh completely solid. Here, it naturally decays. But there is a distinct place where the torso was removed forcibly by what looks like a series of daggers and/or dragon's teeth.
Felicia: I have little ginger chews, if anybody wants one.
Taliesin: I'll take one.
Felicia: Here you go. Thank you. Just in my little pack here.
Matt: About ten more minutes of walking, you come upon another frozen wall barrier.
Sam: I will check it for traps!
Matt: Go ahead and roll perception.
Laura: (laughs) Thanks, brother.
Sam: Five.
Matt: As far as you can tell, it is a frost/snow-covered ground with walls and a ceiling.
Sam: Everyone. There are definitely no traps here.
Laura: Oh, good. Maybe we should stay back?
Felicia: Maybe I could do the Fire Bolt from afar. That's a good idea, and a leader idea that I had that you just reminded me of.
Laura: Good thinking, Lyra.
Felicia: Thank you. Oh, that definitely hits. That's 28.
Matt: 28. Go ahead and roll damage.
Felicia: It's a nine and a ten and five. 24.
Matt: 24. So as you focus, close one eye, and aim, you release a secondary Fire Bolt. (boosh) It slams into the front of the wall of ice, which immediately bursts inside. Shattered shards of glass-like ice go flying further up the cavern. The rest of it falls and collapses at a distance, (crashing) around you. Thankfully, you're all far enough away where there isn't an issue, and the wall seems to have shattered.
Felicia: That's the way you do it! Thank you. Oh my gosh, you guys.
Laura: Before we move forward, I've studied dragons a lot. I just want to say. So obviously we all know they're susceptible to fire damage, yes? This is an ice-breathing bastard. Do as much fire attacks as we can.
Mary: Yes. Don't dragons love, especially white ones, shiny, sparkly things? Especially gems, from what I've gleaned over the years.
Laura: If he could be distracted during combat, maybe.
Felicia: A very aggressive person. I got a glimpse of his attitude, and it is not pleasant.
Laura: Not happy.
Felicia: No. He is full of bile and vitriol, and he likes to be worshiped. We could pretend to be worshiping him.
Laura: But he'll still want to eat us. But yes, we could do that.
Felicia: I mean, he didn't eat these two guys!
Laura: It might be something to think about.
Felicia: At least to get close to him.
Laura: Before we spring an attack, yes.
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence check.
Laura: With advantage because it's pertaining to dragons?
Sam: (laughs) She's a stickler.
Laura: Is that an insight check?
Matt: That's just adding your intelligence modifier.
Laura: Okay, let me see what that-- oh, that's Grog's. What am I doing? Okay, so 20 was the first roll. 20 is the high roll. Oh, wait! No! 22.
Matt: 22. Okay. A few things you do know about dragons, specifically a white dragon, from your studying. You lost someone very important to you, supposedly to a dragon, and so you've spent a lot of your life focused on their techniques, their abilities, how they work. White dragons, you know, have complete immunity to cold. Cold damage of all sorts has no effect on them whatsoever. You know that they have capability of flight. They surround themselves with ice but are not hindered by it whatsoever. You do know that their claws and teeth are extremely dangerous. They themselves also, using their wings and tail, become a fierce entity from all sides. Its cold breath is extremely dangerous. It can affect a large area, and even its presence is frightful enough to where some of the most seasoned adventurers go running, fleeing, or cowering in a corner. Let alone encountering one in its lair, itself, it already has an advantage, as it sets an environment to put it at its advantage. So anything and everything you can do to prepare and be ready for such an encounter would be highly recommended. You do get the sensation that even though they are cold-based, fire doesn't necessarily do any additional damage, but it is not reduced or able to resist it.
Laura: It can't resist fire. What about lightning damage? Do I know anything about that?
Matt: Best that you know, most magics and other types of damage other than cold have an effect on it, though it does have unnatural resilience to spells and things for a large part of the combat.
Felicia: I can cast Stoneskin on one person. Or up to, actually-- I could cast Stoneskin up to three times.
Matt: But it's a concentration spell, so you can only have it up on one person.
Felicia: I can only have it on one person at a time. So who would be most likely to resist slashing and bludgeoning and piercing?
Laura: Probably Grog. He's going to be the one that's going to be up close, out of all of us.
Matt: As Grog says, "That's all right. If I'm raging, I already have the ability to resist."
Laura: That's true. He takes half to piercing and slashing.
Felicia: Oh, okay. So then we need the other person who might be within range.
Taliesin: Trinket.
Laura: Trinket.
Mary: Trinket.
Sam: Trinket's here? (laughter)
Matt: As you look over. (sad bear moan)
Laura: Trinket's right there, Scanlan.
Felicia: I don't want to demean him, but his performance is--
Laura: Lyra!
Felicia: I love him. Of course he gets the spell.
Laura: He is really, really cool!
Sam: He does things!
Felicia: Yes, of course, I don't know what I was thinking.
Laura: Here's the thing. If he doesn't have Stoneskin, I probably won't let him charge.
Taliesin: But if he does have Stoneskin, will you let him charge?
Laura: Probably.
Felicia: All right, well, that could be another-- Does that seem like a good idea for a bear?
Mary: Scanlan, are most of your attacks up close or are they far?
Sam: I've got a wide range. I like to keep people guessing. It's my thing.
Felicia: But we wouldn't really want you within claw damage.
Sam: I wouldn't want that, either.
Felicia: It does make more-- I don't mean to demean Trinket, he is a lovely bear.
Sam: Of all the bears I've known, he's top five. Top five.
Matt: As you're saying this, Trinket senses the conversation and plants both feet in the ground (growls).
Laura: See how tough he is?
Matt: He seems to be showing off. And for a moment, even though it's a conversation, that's a dangerous-looking bear.
Mary: I use Beast Speak on Trinket. And say, Trinket, what are you feeling right now? What's going on? You seem very excited.
Matt: Okay, you notice Zahra leans forward and starts giving this series of low, guttural sounds. It's weird. There's this weird arcane interference and this strange, almost like the sound itself is being muffled and stretched. And Trinket turns to her and starts giving the same noises back. Trinket says to you, essentially, "I'll do whatever it takes to protect my Vex. If this creature tries anything, I will tear its throat from its head."
Felicia: He's a sexier bear than I thought he was.
Laura: And he gives good massages, Lyra.
Felicia: Okay. So I will cast Stoneskin. It lasts an hour, so I'll cast it within the perimeter that we think we're going to get hit.
Laura: Tell him that I love him very much!
Mary: I also want to tell you, Trinket. First of all, boy or girl? Just have to check.
Laura: He's a boy! Look at his giant dick.
Matt: He leans back in a sitting bear position.
Mary: Thank you, I needed some inspiration for this fight we're about to do. All right. I also want you to know that Vex loves you very much and will do whatever she can to protect you.
Matt: As this guttural conversation comes forth, Trinket comes up to you and nuzzles his nose up against your side.
Laura: Oh, little buddy!
Felicia: I wish Aldor would do that to me.
Sam: Show his giant cock to you? (laughter)
Mary: Show his giant cock to you? (laughter)
Felicia: I saw it once. It was glorious.
Mary: Very inspiring.
Matt: As Lyra's in this memory trance, finishes casting Stoneskin and reaches out and touches Trinket. You can see Trinket's physical form, all the fur seems to coalesce into a thick rock-type exterior shell of magical protection.
Laura: What does his armor class raise by?
Matt: Armor class doesn't change, but all damage that Trinket takes from bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing is reduced by half.
Laura: Nice.
Mary: Thank you, Trinket, lovely to talk to you.
Sam: What else can we do to prepare?
Laura: I promise, Lyra, I will let him attack this battle.
Felicia: Oh good, no, it's fantastic. That invited so many good thoughts in my mind. I don't mind anything at this point. I mean, what?
Matt: The giants begin to move forward into the cavern.
Laura: It's happening.
Mary: Yep. Screw your courage to the sticking-place.
Taliesin: Ew. Oh. All right.
Matt: All right. Scanlan, I want you to go ahead and roll a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Oh boy, already? Dex. 17. Oh. Plus four. 21.
Matt: 21. As you begin stepping forward up the cavern where the wall itself has collapsed, you step forward onto a part of the ice that is far more brittle than you expected, and suddenly it (cracks) breaks beneath your foot.
Sam: My Scanlan-sense is tingling!
Matt: You push off and fall onto your back, and as you guys look over, you hear the cracking and the falling of some sort of stone or ice-like structure. You see where Scanlan was stepping a ten-foot-diameter pit crumbles and falls beneath. And peering over the inside and using your light, you can see there appears to be an arrangement of razor-sharp ice spikes gathered at the bottom of a 15-foot pit.
Laura: What? Why isn't my brother here? I need to check for traps from now on. Snoop ahead.
Taliesin: I think we've found one. There's a trap right there.
Sam: Does that take up our whole path now?
Matt: The tunnel itself is about 20 feet wide at this point, so you guys can move around it. The giants were ahead of you at this point.
Sam: Did they laugh?
Matt: One of them shakes his head and the other one just keeps walking.
Felicia: Gee, I had a spell that would be useful, but it's not ready.
Sam: Thanks for that update.
Felicia: I'm just being honest. I could've lied, said that I totally prepared that spell, but I could've been knowing Giant the whole time, so I just.
Laura: (laughs) Oops.
Felicia: If anybody falls, I can make them fall gently. That's on the list.
Laura: Oh, that's good. Is that Feather Fall? Nice. Okay, I perceive some more and see if I see any traps ahead of us the whole time.
Matt: All right. You go ahead and make a perception check as you move forward.
Laura: That would be a seven. 15.
Matt: 15, okay. You guys continue to push upwards this long spiraling corridor. You reach another ice wall that has already been partially broken from some sort of encounter long ago. You immediately see that the part of the wall that is broken. There's about a ten-foot-wide blocked passage, the entirety of that walkway appears to be another trap, and the giants are waiting back.
Laura: Good for you. There's a thing here. We should not step on it. I have one job on this ship!
Mary: I know it's stupid, but goddamn it, I'm going to do it.
Sam: How do we get around? What do we do?
Laura: We should maybe break down this ice wall and then not walk on this area. How about that?
Sam: Oh. Okay. Let's, yes.
Felicia: Oh, good. Should I Firebolt? I mean, I'm going to Firebolt. From a distance.
Laura: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Felicia: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Mary: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Sam: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Sam: Beaches.
Felicia: That's a 30.
Matt: 30. Go ahead and roll some damage.
Felicia: Yeah! Nine and eight and a ten, these are good rolls. That's a 27.
Matt: 27. This bolt arcs around from the side. You hit it right at the point where half of the wall had collapsed, causing the other half of the wall to immediately shatter and collapse inward, spraying bits of ice and rock against the wall on that side. The ground becomes rough terrain in that general vicinity, but it's easy enough to traverse over without any serious issue. As you guys step over, and the giants make their way across, stepping over it entirely with their long gait. You move carefully over the shattered wall bits, but the ground itself seems solid. You get past without issue.
Laura: Before we go into the actual lair of the dragon-- once we get to it; I don't know much more of these thingies there are. Do we want to go in as if we're offering it something and saying, hey, we love you, we want to bring you people, and stuff like that?
Mary: We are here to serve you?
Laura: Or do we want to send somebody in first and act like they're here to serve it, and then we all spring in and surprise it? What do you want to do?
Sam: They like to eat giants.
Laura: It wants to eat anything frozen, basically. It freezes things, and then it eats them.
Felicia: Well, there was another party that the guild-- the guild did send another party.
Laura: I don't know if they had a method or if they just walked right in.
Taliesin: Perhaps if we're quiet and stealthy. Can we be quiet and stealthy?
Felicia: I can't!
Mary: I can cast Invisibility.
Felicia: Ooh, I can cast Invisibility on myself.
Sam: That would help.
Mary: So learning of the dragon, will it be able to detect us if we cast Invisibility?
Felicia: That's nature? That would be a nature check or animal handling?
Matt: This would be an intelligence check.
Felicia: Oh. Well, I can do that. That's a 30-- that's a 23.
Matt: Okay, so what you've read of dragons, their ability to sense their surroundings is adapted to all environments, whether they can see or not. They actually have the ability to see with no sight necessary to a certain extent, so invisibility would help at a distance, quite a bit of distance, but within a certain point it is able to sense your presence whether or not it can see you. Also note, if you cast Invisibility you lose your concentration spell on Trinket.
Felicia: Oh, so let's not do that. Now, his vanity, he does like being worshipped. So that is the key.
Sam: So we could go in with an offering.
Laura: An offering. What if we laid a trap in the offering? What if we used your frag grenade that you did. Is it a bomb? Does it set off on a timer? Is it very fragile?
Taliesin: I have to set it off personally. I actually have to shoot it to set it off.
Mary: So smile, you son of a bitch, basically, if we put it in his mouth?
Laura: Do we have any bombs or anything like that? Because I have a very big beautiful diamond of awesomeness that we uncovered before that I keep about. We could present him with this big, huge-ass diamond and then have it trapped with some sort of exploding device.
Sam: We could.
Felicia: If he picks the diamond up off of the--
Laura: We could put it in a bag and then put the diamond on top of a bomb or something, and then when he picks it up and like, (explosion) in his face.
Taliesin: That's hoping for an awful lot of things to go our way. More things than normally go our way, to be fair.
Felicia: Well, it seems worthy of trying to get close to him, because his attacks-- Would he as a dragon have a very good length attack?
Matt: Yeah, as a dragon has some decent reach with some of its attacks. Its bite, and its length of neck and ability to bite actually has quite a bit of reach. Also, its tail has quite some reach, as well. It can cover some decent ground just with its physical form.
Felicia: The thing is, obviously the trolls don't come up here a lot or there wouldn't be so much ice in here. Walls. So I think that's a problem, so it's not as if they come up here all the time to give it treats. Right?
Sam: We could just walk in there. I could be holding Lyra as my captive and say, I've brought you this captive to eat.
Felicia: I don't like that one.
Sam: Well, you know, you're very appealing.
Mary: We still don't know that the giants aren't going to help us.
Matt: As you guys are stepping forward up the pathway, you turn a corner and you can see the giants have stopped, and they have a physical trepidation to the way that they're leaning backward in their stance. As you turn the corner, the little bit of light that reaches out, you can see there appears to be one final ice wall that has a ten-foot opening where it's left as a pathway, and it opens into a darkened chamber.
Mary: Well, I have darkvision for 60 feet, so I could approach around the side and peer in and just see what's there, 60 feet ahead.
Matt: Okay, so you walk up past the giants to this entrance? All right. As you walk forward, you see your vision spill out in the darkness, with a little bit of dim light and the darkness before you reveals itself. You can see a smattering of broken bits along the ground, looks like rocks and ice, a frozen leg of some humanoid, an arm, some scattered, broken armor and weapons. There are pieces of what appears to be a frozen-over graveyard of previous attempts towards inhabiting this room. And as you continue to push forward towards the edge, just towards the perimeter as far as your vision can see at this doorway, you see a central platform in the middle of this giant chamber that rises up about 15 feet. Ten, 15 feet, and just cresting over the top of this platform is the edge of an alabaster snout, with teeth overlapping. You hear this (snarls) growling snarl. And this little voice spills out from underneath and says, "Why don't you enter? If you're going to arrive and present yourselves, do not cower yet."
Felicia: Get that diamond out!
Matt: And with that, we're going to go ahead and take a break. (shouting)
Matt: We're going to take a quick ten-minute break to go ahead and use the bathroom, get a little snack. Yes?
Zac: We're eight subscribers away from another giveaway. (cheering)
Zac: The giveaway includes a signed player's handbook by all your wonderful hosts, as well as the hosts that will be here next week, and a signed copy of Felicia Day's new book.
Felicia: My new book! It's right there! I signed it.
Sam: What's it called? What's the title?
Felicia: It's called You're Never Weird on the Internet (Almost).
Sam: Aw. That's cool.
Felicia: It's amusing.
Zac: Are you weird in real life all the time?
Felicia: No, I mean, look at me.
Zac: No. Definitely not.
Felicia: I don't believe your face.
Sam: Did you consider the title Day Dreaming?
Felicia: You're pretty.
Sam: I just thought, because it's like a pun.
Felicia: No, that's awful.
Sam: Consider it.
Matt: Somewhere, someone's holding their manuscript entitled Day Dreaming and going (fake crying). (laughter)
Matt: All right, guys, we'll take a quick break, we'll see you back in ten minutes or so to see how this goes. [break]
Matt: Welcome back from the break! Our fantastic Travis finally made it. (cheering)
Travis: I heard I rolled really well in the beginning of this.
Matt: Yeah, it went wonderfully.
Laura: Sorry. But your Chain of Returning is attached to your blazing warhammer now.
Matt: There you go. So as it ends up, we have a new winner. KadenPhilly is the winner, congratulations, of our next giveaway. So we'll be giving away the player's handbook, the signed photo, a copy of Felicia's book-- yay!-- and a bunch of other goodies coming your way soon, so make sure you get your information to the Overlord. We'll have another giveaway at 5,800, if we can get to there by the end of the show tonight, so let's see if we can hit that. In the meantime, guys--
Travis: Shit.
Mary: Yeah. Welcome to the shit.
Travis: I've been watching in the car.
Matt: You guys have all been making your way through the cavern back here. Zahra has stepped forward and in the darkness, you can see right here at the edge a form.
Felicia: He's up above us, though.
Matt: Yep. About ten, 15 feet up on this platform, leaning over the edge is Rimefang, staring at you through the darkness. A claw comes forward and beckons.
Laura: Can I, from here, before we go in there-- I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on him.
Matt: You can't see him right now.
Mary: I can.
Matt: Zahra can.
Travis: I can, too. I've got my belt of dwarven darkvision.
Felicia: Is he speaking dragon?
Matt: Speaking Common.
Felicia: He's speaking Common. Okay.
Mary: Would he detect if I would cast anything on him at the moment? I don't know! Then I'm going to sit here and drink my drink.
Travis: Are you offering him that jewel, or did we ditch that idea?
Laura: No, are we doing that?
Sam: We might. Depends what he asks. Yeah, let's do it.
Travis: Yeah, roll it out like a tennis ball for a dog.
Taliesin: Do we have a little bag we can put the jewels in?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: We don't have time to do any of this stuff.
Laura: Yeah, we do.
Taliesin: We have a second. I'm going to hand you my Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch. Why not?
Travis: You can Hold Monster?
Mary: I can Hold Monster. Yeah, we both can.
Travis: Does he qualify as a monster?
Matt: As far as you know, dragon's pretty much a monster.
Laura: I am putting Percy's hand grenade inside this bag along with a diamond. Oh, it's a really pretty diamond.
Taliesin: We'll get it back, it's okay.
Laura: As long as it doesn't explode.
Taliesin: You can't explode a diamond.
Laura: That's true, diamonds are really strong.
Taliesin: Diamonds are forever.
Laura: I put that in the bag. Are we tossing this at him? What are we doing?
Sam: No! We walk in. He's beckoning us. Let's walk in. I'm walking in.
Matt: All right, so you guys all walk in?
Sam: I'm going ahead.
Laura: Here, hold the bag.
Sam: I'll take the bag.
Matt: Zahra, are you staying ahead with Scanlan?
Felicia: I believe that you squishy people should be back here!
Travis: I'm not squishy, I go with them.
Matt: As a note, as you guys are walking through and the light hits the walls, you begin to see the ice itself, which you've become accustomed to, is now being broken up into what looks like little glittering stars. It's almost like you're walking through a frozen area of the night sky. You realize that there are gold pieces frozen in sporadically all throughout the wall, the floor, the ceiling here. The actual, whatever wealth this dragon has acquired is in some way shape or form embedded in its own lair. Anyway. So we have the three of you up front. Who's up next? I imagine we've got Trinket.
Laura: Yeah. Me.
Matt: All right, so you guys all continue to move forward?
Mary: Not too close!
Laura: Scanlan!
Matt: There? Where do you want to stop? You guys have laser pointers to use, by the way, if you want to point out wherever you want to be.
Laura: Scanlan should definitely talk to him.
Taliesin: I would like to go around here.
Felicia: Oh glorious Rimefang, we have an offering for you!
Taliesin: That's not me.
Sam: Is that you? Hello.
Matt: No, that was you, sorry. So Percy goes here.
Laura: Over by Percy. But further.
Felicia: Is that 90 feet?
Sam: It's less than that. We're 30 feet away now.
Laura: Oh, come on, giants. Help us out.
Matt: So as you guys enter the chamber, the actual air here is more still and cold than at any point of the interior of the cavern has been. Even breathing inward hurts in itself as the freezing air hits your lungs. Rimefang sits there, perched on top of this central platform, grinning down towards the rest of the group. You, who have shouted this out, Lyra, about having an offering. Rimefang immediately leans forward. "An offering, you say?"
Laura: I want to make my way further up. While he's talking, I want to make my way along the wall a little.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Laura: Oh no. 20! Natural 20! And all I needed was fried chicken! (laughter)
Travis: It's true.
Matt: All right, so. You, somehow, manage to dart out of the visual reference of a very focused adult white dragon. Rimefang does not seem to gather any movement, and you vanish into the side. Where do you want to go?
Laura: A little bit further. There. That sounds good.
Matt: Okay. Percy, as you're stepping over you realize you're stepping onto what looks like the broken lower half of another giant that has fallen over, a booted leg and part of an eaten armored torso to your back. As you begin to look through, you also see there currently frozen in place three other individuals that are in mid-battle and are frozen solid.
Laura: If we unfreeze them, they could help us.
Felicia: They're probably dead in there.
Travis: We're standing in front of a dragon!
Sam: Rimefang?
Mary: Oh great Rimefang! What a glorious moon you are amidst the stars of your treasure.
Travis: Oh, pour it on, why don't you? (laughter)
Mary: We do have an offering for you.
Sam: Yes. And I use Mage Hand to lift the diamond out of the bag and dangle it in front of the dragon. We've brought you this diamond. We've come from the Slayer's Take. We represent the guild and we are here to formally apologize for sending a few of our members here in the past and promise that we never shall again, and as a gift of apology and hopefully brotherhood, we offer you this diamond. There are many more to come.
Taliesin: And everything else in the bag, as well.
Laura: And then you put it back in the bag. And then you give it to him.
Matt: There's this low, guttural snarl (snarls). It leans forward, sneaking down off the perch a little bit. Its head moves forward and stretches outward, no more than maybe ten feet from your face. You can see it inspecting the diamond as you're holding it by the Mage Hand, floating above the rest of the bag. Chuckles to itself. (chuckles) "This is your measly offering?"
Sam: There is a diamond of much greater size and value in this pouch. But first, we want to hear that you are going to allow us safe passage out of here before we turn it over to you.
Matt: Persuasion check.
Zac: Guys, just so you know, the stream's buffering, so hold. Twitch problems.
Felicia: Oh no.
Zac: Hold for buffer.
Matt: Do we know at what point it started buffering?
Zac: You're back up. Missing the last two sentences. Buffer over.
Sam: Please allow us safe passage. And then you said roll for persuasion, and I rolled a 19.
Matt: Rimefang's head withdraws back and its claws pull back on top of the platform. It lifts its head up, looking down at you with this very disinterested, snooty look (huffs). As it snorts out of its nose, this puff of frost shoots out and crystals of ice fall and clatter to the ground around it.
Sam: That was so cool.
Matt: "You. You trespass into my domain, your voices bickering and bouncing off the walls, annoying me, waking me from my slumber. My freshly eaten slumber. I am curious, before you so walk into my dinner table, why you seem to have gotten past my guardians?" At which point the two giants who are standing behind you look over at each other nervously.
Sam: Your guardians are well aware of our power and position and did not want to offend you by turning us away.
Matt: "Are you to tell me I spared your insignificant lives so you could let this insulting, insufferable insect into the heart of my domain?"
Sam: I'm called Burt Reynolds, and I take great offense at that.
Matt: The dragon's head turns to the side for a moment as a glance of confusion and almost amusement that you speak up to it with such a disrespectful manner. (evil laughter)
Sam: You can call me Mr. Reynolds or simply Burt.
Matt: (heavy impacts) Its claws dig in and tighten on the edges of this platform. You can see the stonework and the ice crack and shatter under its grip as pieces of stone tumble down the edges of the platform, scattering across the ground with a slight clattering. The wings (whoosh) unfurl outward. Its head looks down upon you directly. "Burt." (laughter)
Matt: "You say you're from the Slayer's Take. I have not lived these hundred years or so to become the hunted. I am the hunter! I am the scourge of the Thorain Tundra! I am the stalker of this timberland. Well. Parts of you shall adorn my walls, glittering in pieces for times to come. Giants. To my side! Tonight, you choose whether I dine on you or just them."
Mary: I use-- fuck me. (laughter)
Taliesin: I don't know if you have that spell.
Felicia: Really, what's the DC on that?
Mary: It's very high! I use Awakened Mind to once more say, now we have seen what you have been through. We see the terror that you face every day from this awful beast. This is your chance. You may not have another. Fight him with us and destroy this beast forever.
Matt: Make a persuasion check versus the dragon's intimidation check.
Sam: Oh, versus a dragon!
Laura: Natural 20 all the way. Natural 20. I've had my bow notched, and I cast Hunter's Mark while all this is going on.
Mary: 18. 18 plus what?
Sam: What is it, persuasion?
Matt: Persuasion.
Mary: Plus nine. 27.
Matt: The giants look at each other, and they look down at the rest of you. They pull their axes out, shields at the ready, and look back up at Rimefang, and in Giant you hear, muttered under their breath, "It's now or never." (cheering)
Matt: Roll initiative.
Mary: Yes!
Laura: Oh my god.
Felicia: Oh my god.
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Felicia: Oh, I rolled lower!
Laura: I rolled a 20.
Taliesin: I rolled another 20.
Laura: Me too!
Travis: What is it with you and your 20s?
Taliesin: I don't know! I don't know what happened.
Matt: Okay, all right. 25 to 20, anyone?
Laura: 25.
Taliesin: 28.
Mary: What?!
Matt: All right. We have Percy, we have Vex, leaving that up there. All right, we have 20 to 15?
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19, nice. 15 to ten?
Mary: 12.
Matt: 12. Zahra, 12. Ten to five?
Sam: Seven.
Matt: Seven for Scanlan. (laughing) what did you roll?
Felicia: Negative one! (laughter)
Mary: That's our leader!
Matt: Did you roll a natural one?
Felicia: I rolled a one, and I have a negative two.
Travis: On your initiative?!
Felicia: Yes! I'm never going. I'm going to just have a snack.
Travis: You break out the trail mix.
Taliesin: The little gingers come back out.
Felicia: Is that a record?
Travis: That is a record. I don't think we've ever had a negative initiative.
Matt: All right, so as the wings unfurl on top of this platform, the combat round begins with Percy.
Taliesin: If I take one shot, can I hold my second shot until an event? Can I time my second shot?
Matt: No, you'd have to hold your initiative, or you do all your actions in one round, unfortunately.
Taliesin: Darn it. What initiative did you roll, again?
Sam: Low. Second to last.
Taliesin: In that case, I'm going to take a few steps behind that frozen creature right there. I'm going to pull out Bad News.
Mary: (singing) Bad News!
Sam: (singing) Bad News!
Taliesin: (singing) Bad News!
Taliesin: I'm going to aim for the face. I'm going to take a head shot on him.
Matt: Okay, the frozen warrior is in front of you.
Taliesin: I'm just using him as partial cover.
Matt: Okay, so you're behind the creature. Are you just putting it on it to aim?
Taliesin: More or less. I'm using him as a steady and as partial cover as I take a head shot on the dragon. I'm not taking a bonus for damage, no. Oh. 15?
Matt: 15 unfortunately does not hit. As you shoot, (gunshot), it actually hits the body but the hardness of the dragon's scales ricochets the shot off, (ricochet sound), you see it impact on some part of the far side of the cavern.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn a bonus action and spend another grit point and do another shot.
Matt: So you're doing your action surge?
Taliesin: I'm taking my action surge.
Matt: Okay, so you use your action surge, and that's it for this round. You use your first round to reload Bad News and place it back up on top.
Taliesin: Come on.
Matt: Another head shot, you said?
Taliesin: Yeah. Oh! 19! That's much better. Plus 12, that's 32 to hit. And that's 15 points of damage, and head shot means he's got disadvantage on all attacks for the next round.
Matt: Okay, good to know. So I'm going to go ahead and roll. All right, so. (gunshot) From the impact of the blast, you see the shot ricochet off of Rimefang's face. The impact sends a couple pieces of white dragon scale shooting off into the darkness, and the head (grunts) rears from the impact, shakes, seemingly loosely shaken by the impact of the blast. The blowback from the gun actually sends a large crack through the physical body of the ice warrior ahead of you, and it collapses into a pile of ice on the ground in front of you.
Taliesin: I feel a little guilty about that. I feel very guilty about that.
Matt: You get the feeling that whatever was there probably has not been alive for quite a while.
Taliesin: Okay, I feel a little better.
Matt: Frozen solid. It breaks like the T-1000.
Taliesin: And he was the most useful he's ever been.
Matt: That ends Percy's turn. We're up at Vex.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to cast Lightning Arrow, and I'm going to attack through my Blazing Bow.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: Okay. Oh, that's good! That is a 25?
Matt: 25? 25 does hit, yes.
Laura: Okay, so that is 4d8 of lightning damage.
Matt: All right. Saving throw for half? Or just take it?
Laura: Saving throw for half, yes.
Matt: That's a natural 20 on its saving throw, so it takes half damage.
Felicia: That's some stink-eye.
Matt: Hey, better on a saving throw than on an attack.
Laura: 13 plus six is 19, 20, so ten. Plus regular damage, right? For my regular. 19. I know. 11 plus ten is 21, plus Hunter's Mark is four. And then plus my Blazing Bow, which adds another ten. Where did that land? Shit, balls! I'm so aggressive right now! I'm going to roll a different one! Oh my god. That looks like a one. Oh wow. Two ones. That's great.
Matt: So as you pull back your arrow, the actual shaft begins to spark with bluish energy as you release it. The arrow transforms (energy noises) into an arcing bolt of electrical energy. It impacts and courses through the upper torso of the dragon, as it's (grunts) still trying to shake off the damage it took from Percy's attack. It manages to push off most of the impact, but still takes damage from it. There's also a burst of fire from the impact, as well, you can see a bit of flame trickle up the side of his body and it eventually goes out from the cold in the air.
Laura: That was one attack.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: But was the spell an action?
Laura: The Lightning Arrow is a bonus.
Matt: Oh, okay. So it makes your next attack do that. Right. Gotcha. So you have one more attack.
Laura: So I am going to send Trinket. Where is he?
Matt: Trinket's over here with the giants guarding him.
Laura: Dear lord. Can Trinket run around and attack his butt?
Matt: It's actually up on top of a 15-foot platform.
Laura: Oh, so Trinket can't do shit right now.
Matt: Not right now, but Trinket can move if you like.
Laura: Trinket's going to move, and I'm going to attack again, can I do that?
Matt: Yeah, you can do that.
Laura: We want to spread out.
Matt: That's as far as Trinket get can get, there.
Laura: Can I attack again?
Matt: You can, yeah.
Laura: All right, I'll hit him again. Okay, just a regular attack through the bow.
Matt: Yep. This is your second use of it, though; you're done with it.
Laura: Yes. 17.
Matt: 17. As you fire the arrow, it takes its wing and (whoosh) batters it out of the way, and the arrow shatters in mid air. You see a burst of fire as it does nothing.
Laura: It was a 25 that hit before. What was the first attack that hit?
Taliesin: I was in the 30s.
Matt: So that ends your turn, Vex. Do you want to move, or do you want to stay right there?
Laura: Can I stealth?
Matt: (laughs) No, that's a hide action, I think.
Laura: Then I'm going to move along the wall further. Yeah, like that.
Matt: That ends your turn. Rimefang, now, shaking off the frustration, looks around the room, lifts up on its back hind legs, spreads its wings, and just gives this large roar. (roars) The entire room shakes, and you see pieces of ice and rock begin to start falling from the ceiling. Everybody, go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw. Everybody. One giant is fine. All right, starting with Percy.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: 12.
Felicia: 15.
Sam: Natural 20, but it becomes 18.
Matt: Okay.
Felicia: Because you're not wise.
Mary: 21.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: Grog?
Travis: Nine?
Matt: That's rough.
Travis: Very wise.
Sam: Oh, lots of red circles.
Matt: All right, so. The sheer amount of presence that this dragon permeates sends a shiver of fear down your spine. Vex, Percy, Grog, and one of the giants are currently frightened of the dragon. While you are frightened, you have disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls, and you cannot willingly move closer to the dragon.
Laura: Is Trinket frightened?
Matt: Roll for Trinket.
Laura: Okay. Come on, Trinket. No! He's probably pretty frightened. Oh, does that count as intimidation?
Matt: No, it's a wisdom saving throw. So it's whatever his wisdom bonus is.
Laura: He rolled an eight, so I'm guessing he's pretty scared.
Matt: Probably scared. Trinket, all of a sudden also (scared bear noises) backs up a little bit and is looking equally frightened, especially seeing you scared. Trinket feels a moment of fear there.
Laura: You've still got a really big dick!
Felicia: What?
Laura: I'm just telling him to encourage him.
Travis: I missed something.
Sam: Not the dragon. Although, probably the dragon too.
Matt: Rimefang then (whoosh) flies up into the air for a minute. And then swoops over and lands over on this side, and that's going to end its turn. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: I got to break it, right?
Matt: Yeah, you're scared.
Travis: Rage? I look over my shoulder, terrified, at the other one that's scared, and I say, repeat after me, lads. I would like to rage.
Matt: You reach into your inner self, and suddenly you realize this is it. You know dragons, you've fought dragons in the past, you've killed dragons in the past, and you know dragons have been responsible for hurting some of your friends and their families, and through that, that anger just billows up from inside, and that fear shakes from your body.
Travis: I want to kill a dragon like my friend Pike did.
Matt: You're now in a rage. You shake the fear effect, and you can take the rest of your turn as you see fit.
Travis: (battle cry) I would like to run over that direction.
Sam: Oh, you're running away from it?
Matt: You rage-ran.
Travis: I rage-ran. Can I attack?
Matt: You're currently hiding behind a 15-foot platform.
Travis: So I can't see beyond it?
Matt: You're literally hiding from the dragon right now. Cool. All right, that ends your turn? Zahra, you're up.
Mary: All right, how far away is it from me?
Matt: It is currently 30 feet from you.
Mary: All right.
Matt: Real fast. Grog, make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: 13?
Matt: 13?
Laura: What was that for?
Matt: As you're running through, all of a sudden the floor gives out from underneath you, and you roll off to the side. You almost fall in, catching yourself, you slide down into a pit, but manage to get your handhold on a piece of stone that's jutting out of the rock. Pull yourself up. Underneath where you were in the ground is a cracked piece of ice: a pit in the ground.
Laura: Seriously?
Matt: But you're fine. You get back up to your feet. That could've been really bad. It's about 15 feet down into these jagged shards of ice.
Laura: My passive perception is 21. Just for future reference.
Matt: Good to know. You also have no light source. You're at the far back in the darkness. Actually, you have Grog around you right now.
Mary: And I still have Light cast.
Matt: Yeah, so you're fine. All right. That brings us to Zahra, once again.
Mary: I cast my bonus Hex on this beautiful beast.
Matt: It is now Hexed, as well.
Sam: What's that do? What's that?
Mary: I get extra damage.
Travis: You sexy tailed bastard.
Mary: I take my dark dragon staff, and as this moon orb begins to glow, I cast Witch Bolt-- is that it?-- yes! Witch Bolt upon it! Infused with my own internal moon fire.
Matt: All right. Do you have to roll to hit on that one?
Mary: Witch Bolt? Yeah, what do I do? It's plus 11. 5d12 plus two.
Laura: Yeah, so roll and then add 11.
Mary: 13.
Laura: Oh, that's good.
Mary: 24, plus two damage to all spells cast, so 26?
Laura: No, that's damage.
Mary: Oh, sorry, 24.
Matt: All right, so Witch Bolt does hit. Go ahead and roll damage for that.
Mary: So 5d12. Five times. All right. Do math for me, somebody. What is that? That's a three.
Travis: Three plus the two, so that's five.
Laura: You do it all and then add the two.
Travis: Oh, gotcha. Seven.
Mary: That's four.
Travis: Yeah. Plus four. 19. 26. 38.
Mary: One more?
Laura: No, that's all five.
Matt: Five, and you add 1d6 to that because of your Hex.
Laura: Plus two, so 38 is 40.
Mary: One.
Matt: Okay. So 41 points.
Mary: Yeah.
Laura: Plus anything else? Wait, plus two damage to all-- oh, but that's already--
Travis: That's already there.
Matt: Okay, so. After you Hex it, you can see the shadows around the dragon begin to form and coalesce around its torso, and as it looks around, these small demonic faces that cackle as bits of moonlight begin to pierce through these grins chokehold around its neck, and as it tries to shake it off, you bring your staff forward, and this bolt of bluish-green electrical energy shakes out in what looks like a piercing arc of jagged moonlight that strikes right into the center of the dragon's chest. As it does, the dragon's nearly pushed off its feet for a second, gathers itself, and you can see that energy surrounds it like magical shackles, it continues to keep its hold on the creature, as Witch Bolt does. All right. Do you wish to move, or are you going to stay where you are? You can move 30 feet, six squares.
Mary: I'd like to go stand by the giants.
Travis: You're already there.
Matt: Yeah, you're right here. It's hard for you to see because that guy's in the way, but you're right there.
Mary: All right. No, the other way. Blinding players as we go. Where am I? I'm there? I'd like to move to the slight cover of the pedestal.
Matt: You can get that far. All right, so there you are. That ends your turn, Zahra. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: My eyes begin to change to a dark shade as I turn my gaze to the dragon and cast Eyebite on him.
Travis: What? Cast what?
Sam: Eyebite.
Matt: All right. And how are you having that affect him?
Sam: I would like to sicken him. Give him a little tummy-ache.
Travis: Is he going to do the twirls?
Matt: Okay, we're going to do Eyebite here.
Sam: Through my Hand Cone of Clarity!
Matt: All right. So wisdom saving throw for the dragon. Use my meteor dice one of the fans out there sent. All right, what's the DC on that now total?
Sam: It's 19.
Matt: 19. That would fail. It's going to use its legendary resistance to choose to succeed instead.
Sam: It can just choose to succeed?!
Travis: How many times can it choose to do that?!
Matt: Three times per day. Welcome to fighting a dragon!
Sam: What? But that was a cool spell!
Matt: So as your eyes darken, the dragon's currently surrounded by the Witch Bolt and the Hex on the creature. You darken your eyes, and you look over and see the arcane energy taking your vision, its vision, combine it in midair. As you do, it shakes its head and (roars) shouts. You instinctively pull back, and as you do, the spell drifts away from you and you realize the incantation's lost.
Travis: Percy, use your badass motherfucker feat to have it work.
Sam: Okay, can I throw with a bonus action?
Matt: What are you going to throw?
Sam: A bag.
Matt: No, that's probably more of an action, but you can drop it as a bonus action.
Sam: Got it. Then I will move a few steps away. I can still move and stuff, right? I would like to move away from this group of soon-to-be-blasted-with-dragon-fire people. Just a few yards away to my left.
Matt: All right.
Sam: That's fine, sure, that's great. And give some inspiration to Lyra. I'll say, (singing) When the moon hits your eye like a big pizza pie, that's Aldor-e. (cheering)
Travis: Yeah, going deep.
Matt: And suddenly, the fear that's getting close to clutching your heart and giving you every instinct to run from this, you hear the name Aldor, and you feel that surge of warmth fill your body, and the need to push on forward. Go ahead and take a d10 inspiration dice to use in any roll you want.
Felicia: Oh my gosh, thank you so much. That's beautiful.
Sam: Well, I wrote it for you.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn, Scanlan. Now the giants go. This one is going to move to the side. It's deathly afraid of the dragon, it's like, this is a bad idea, it's really regretting its decision. It's going to attempt to shake the effect. And does so. (cheering)
Matt: Shakes its fright. The other one is going to step over you. As you're like, all of a sudden this foot goes (wham) in front of you, you're like, (nervous sound).
Felicia: Oh my god, I got hit with his dick. (laughter)
Travis: What were their names? Ace and Base?
Sam: Ace and Gary.
Mary: Ace and Gary.
Matt: The giant's going to move forward. It's going to attempt to make two strikes with its greataxe. That's going to be a 17, that misses. And a 16, that misses. (whooshing) Makes two strikes to the dragon, and it just dodges out of the way. The second one, it reaches up with its claw and slaps, just parries its axe out of the way and just glares at it, and you can see at that moment, the giant also itself is like (growls). Ending their turn. Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: Oh, what? Finally me? All right. I am going to get my big spell out. Now, can I target its wing and try to Disintegrate-- can I try to cut its wing off?
Matt: You know what, yeah, if you want to go ahead and try that. It's going to be a disadvantage on the attack roll.
Felicia: What is that?
Travis: Roll it twice and you get the lower number.
Matt: But does Disintegrate have--
Felicia: It doesn't have a DC.
Matt: Then it would have an advantage on the saving throw.
Felicia: Oh, okay. No, I'm going to try to hit it. It's my big gun, I don't want to be like, sorry. I'm like, I just did this and it looked amazing.
Sam: Which one are you doing?
Felicia: I'm doing Disintegrate. And it's 10d6 plus a d10, plus 40. Right? It's not the best roll, guys. There's a lot of small numbers here.
Travis: Yeah, it's only got plus 40. It's a pretty shrimpy hit.
Laura: Wait, plus 40?
Matt: Yeah, it's 10d6 plus 40 force damage.
Travis: I need to get a wand.
Matt: Disintegrate's nasty.
Felicia: 39.
Matt: 39 plus 40? All right, that's 79 points of damage. What's the DC? It's 17 on that for your spells?
Felicia: Yes.
Matt: It does make its saving throw, so half damage. But rounding up, that's 40 damage still. 40 force damage to the dragon. As you, with the swelling of energy that Scanlan gave you reminding you of Aldor, you release and once again that sickeningly green beam of arcane energy just streaks out, hits the dragon, and with a burst of arcane energy you can see part of its scales have withered, part of its wing is now tattered and missing, and immediately the physical form of the dragon, it's reeling in pain.
Laura: So if we aim at that area that doesn't have scales...
Matt: You'll find out.
Mary: But you've still got the Witch Bolt wrapping around him, yeah?
Matt: That is focused.
Felicia: I definitely want to move. I want to move over there behind that-- over here. Yeah. So I'm a little less conspicuous.
Matt: All righty. Cool. That will be the top of the round. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Still no hand-grenade.
Matt: No. The fear has shaken you, so you cannot move closer to it, and you have disadvantage on attacks.
Taliesin: What do I do to shake the fear?
Matt: At the end of your turn, you make a saving throw to try and shake it. You can't move closer to it, but you can still attack it. You cannot move closer to it, and your attacks have disadvantage.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to try and take a shot at it with a standard shot for right now.
Matt: Okay. So because you've shot, reloaded, shot, reloaded. Go for it.
Taliesin: 17. Wait, and with disadvantage.
Felicia: Oh no. That's a great 20 you can't use.
Matt: Yeah. So a total of 17? As you fire, it would've hit, unfortunately it streaks through the portion of the wing that currently is left a gaping hole thanks to the Disintegrate spell, the impact of the bullet itself blasting against the back wall, sending chunks and shards of ice spilling off in the distance.
Taliesin: I would like to really quickly then go into that little corner there for some cover.
Matt: Okay. All right. Cool, so that ends your turn. Vex, you're up next.
Taliesin: Oh, I didn't roll to shake off the fear.
Matt: Go ahead and make the save.
Travis: (singing) Shake it off.
All: (singing) Shake it off!
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: Five.
Matt: Five, yeah. The fear is still clutching you internally, like, "Shit, dragon, bad, dragon!" Vex.
Laura: Can I see him at all?
Matt: Right now? No. You can see parts of the wings fluttering over, but you don't have a very good visual on it.
Laura: And he's pretty far away?
Matt: He's decent distance, yeah.
Laura: If I just try to (bowstring noise) up?
Matt: You can try to. It has three-quarters cover, so it gets a plus five to its armor class.
Laura: And I'm at disadvantage. Does it seem like if I cast something that would do mass damage, would the giant then not want to attack with us anymore?
Matt: That's a risk you'd have to take.
Travis: Drop some stank on that dragon.
Laura: I'm scared to hit the giant with it. Because I want to do Conjure Barrage, but I'm afraid of the giant.
Felicia: Well, if you do damage to him, the spell breaks.
Laura: Exactly. So that would be bad.
Sam: But he's not fighting for us because of a spell right now. We convinced him.
Felicia: Well.
Taliesin: Well.
Laura: Potentially.
Travis: Look at the poker face on that DM. Giving up nothing. Giving up nothing!
Felicia: Stone-faced.
Laura: Should I try it?
Taliesin: I don't know. What do I know?
Mary: If we damage it, this spell that I've been talking to him with goes (poof).
Laura: All right, then I'm going to try to hit the dragon with a regular attack. I'm not going to do Conjure Barrage.
Matt: All right, so what's the first range increment on your longbow?
Laura: It's 120.
Matt: That's the first range increment? Yeah, it's a longbow, yeah. So you're not at disadvantage from that shot. However, it does have three-quarters cover. And given that circumstance--
Taliesin: Does she not have sharpshooter?
Laura: I don't. That's not the feat that I took. I took read lips. I'm really good in populated areas.
Matt: So go for it and roll for the attacks.
Laura: Okay, cool. Here we go! Yeah, no. Doesn't hit. (laughter)
Felicia: We're going to die!
Matt: You pull back and release the first arrow. It actually just barely scrapes the top of the platform and shatters across the ice.
Mary: Come on!
Laura: That's better! 27!
Matt: 27, even with the three-quarters cover, does hit! Go ahead and roll damage. (cheering)
Laura: Okay. What is that? 12, 13, 14! Plus a d6, because I'm badass! Plus six! That's 19. That's not even close to 40, but it does something.
Matt: It's still damage! So as you release the arrow, it just misses the top of the platform, and you get just enough of an angle that it hits one of the wings as it pulls it up, sticks into the part of its hand that crests the top of the wing. It (growls)--
Laura: And I say, fuck you!
Matt: Okay. And it echoes, "Fuck you, fuck you..." Do you or Trinket wish to move?
Laura: We're as far away as we can be, and I can't move any closer.
Matt: That's true. So now you and Trinket both make wisdom saving throws to try and shake the fear. Oh, and you're frightened, so actually, roll again on the attack. Disadvantage on the attacks. Just roll again. You're frightened.
Laura: No, both of those sucked. The first one was 20. 20 was the first!
Matt: So a total of 20 for the second roll? Well, that would hit. Well no, it has three-quarters cover so it wouldn't, unfortunately.
Laura: Matthew Mercer.
Matt: You were frightened! It's part of the effect. I had to remind myself that. So the arrow splinters off the top of the wing as it reaches upward, and you still feel the fear clutching your physical self.
Laura: Now we try to shake it off.
Matt: Now you try and shake it off.
Laura: (sings) I shake it off.
Mary: (sings) Shake it off!
Matt: First roll is for you.
Laura: I do not succeed. It's a three.
Matt: That would be a no, sorry. For Trinket?
Laura: 20! Why did you say the first one was for me? Why couldn't the second one be for me?
Matt: Because that's how it works. So while you're still scared, you look over and you see Trinket shakes it off. Trinket looks over his shoulder at you and gives you a nod of like, I got this. Turns back to the dragon and gives a (roars) giant grizzly-bear growl and shout at the dragon. Do you wish to move at all?
Laura: Where is he?
Matt: Trinket's right here.
Laura: He's going to run up for the time being and hide. Give me this.
Felicia: Hide? Why is everyone hiding?!
Laura: He's not hiding! He's going to run up to this area so that he's got a better vantage point to run up for the next turn.
Matt: That's about as far as Trinket can get right there.
Laura: He can't get any further into this little crevice?
Matt: Unfortunately, no.
Laura: Can he run right here?
Matt: Trinket could move here instead. That's as far as Trinket could move on his movement.
Laura: That's not really protecting him, is it?
Matt: No, but it's not over in a cluster of other people.
Laura: All right.
Matt: All right. Does that end your turn? Rimefang, who currently has this giant in its face, angrily decides to instead, as a legendary action at the end of your turn, actually, before it takes its turn as you've misfired and Trinket's running along, it's going to go ahead and use one of its legendary actions to do a wing attack against the giant in front of it.
Mary: No, Derek!
Travis: (laughs) Derek. It's Gary.
Mary: Gary. He told me telepathically that his name is actually Derek.
Matt: This is an interesting point. Remember, this is a dragon. It's your favored enemy. So keep that in mind, you have an advantage on attacks against it.
Laura: Do I? No, I don't. I looked it up today, yo. I don't get shit on attacks for him because we transferred over from Pathfinder. All I can do is talk to him.
Matt: The chat keeps yelling that the favored enemy--
Laura: Well, chat, I looked it up, and I don't think I have advantage.
Matt: That's true, chat. You're wrong. (shouting)
Laura: I literally texted Matt today and I was super upset.
Zac: Did chat try to challenge the DM?
Matt: Apparently.
Laura: Seriously, I thought I had it, too, and then I looked it up. In fifth edition, I don't get that.
Matt: As a favored enemy, she gets benefits, but not specifically in battle. It's more about knowing--
Sam: I appreciate the chat. Please, keep it coming.
Mary: Couldn't that inspire Vex in some way? Don't you get an inspiration roll from the chat?
Matt: Sorry.
Felicia: You know what's good is that it's a different team next week, because we're all going to die.
Mary: No! Lyra, you're our leader, come on!
Matt: Sorry, chat. You're wrong. Tried to go with you there, but you're wrong.
Laura: I shouldn't have even said anything, I should've just gone with you. I'm an idiot.
Matt: That's okay. No worries, but thank you for being honest and wrong, chat. All right, nevertheless. It's going to do a wing attack against the giant in front of it. The giant is trying to make a dexterity saving throw. Does not. The giant is knocked prone from the wings (whoosh) buffeting it with wind as it begins to take off, knocking the giant back and dealing 13 points of bludgeoning damage. The dragon then picks up and lands right there. And rears back its head (snarling roar) and unleashes a torrent of freezing cold dragon's breath. A 60-foot cone. It's going to hit the giant, it's going to hit Lyra, and it's going to hit Percy.
Taliesin: Do I not have some cover?
Matt: Not against dragon's breath, unfortunately. So I need both of you guys to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw from the sheer freezing cold.
Felicia: Oh no. That didn't go well for me.
Sam: Plus three.
Felicia: Oh, that's true. No, that's damage.
Taliesin: 20.
Sam: Wait. She gets my inspiration on this throw.
Matt: If she chooses to use it, yes.
Felicia: Yes, I definitely want to use it.
Matt: So add a d10 to what you rolled.
Felicia: Ten! Thank god, because that's a 21.
Matt: 21, okay. All right, so both of you take half of the 54 damage it would've dealt.
Laura: 54 damage?
Matt: You both take 27 points of cold damage. The giant that had been partially disintegrated before by Lyra now takes the brunt of the frozen damage, and you can now see the ice begins to build up around it as it (gurgling) gurgles as its life's blood is now stilled. While frozen in place, the ice around its physical form holding it there as a statue of death. The giant is no more.
Travis: No!
Mary: No!
Laura: What? No!
Sam: Grog, go get his axe! It's really big!
Laura: Is it too big to carry? He's got a flaming axe right now.
Matt: All right, and that ends Rimefang's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to race back from whence I came to attack his right flank, if I could.
Matt: You could get there. You will have to make-- actually, no, you can move through there without an issue.
Travis: Also, I have darkvision up to 60 feet.
Matt: You rush up towards the dragon.
Travis: I'd like to take my Firebrand Warhammer and activate it. Ignite it.
Matt: As a bonus action. Well, it's already been ignited, you've had it flaming this whole time.
Travis: Oh, beautiful, yeah. It's like a torch, which means I can see even better. I'd like to go into a frenzied rage and start swinging away.
Matt: All right, so three attacks on the big old dragon.
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19 does hit.
Travis: Beautiful. 25.
Matt: Does hit.
Travis: And 23.
Matt: All three hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Okay, so this is the new thing. d10 plus five plus eight. Plus another--
Travis: d10?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You're hitting with a weapon that's not as big as your greataxe, but you do an additional 1d6 fire damage when you hit.
Travis: Holy shit. Ah!
Matt: d10 and a d6 together three times. Plus eight to each.
Travis: Three d10s?
Laura: Yes. Plus 3d6.
Matt: Plus eight to what you roll on both of those.
Travis: You threw a bunch of numbers at me.
Matt: All right, so a d10 and a d6 plus eight.
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19 damage.
Travis: Do I do that three times? Oh, wow. 19, and that's 12.
Matt: 12, all right.
Travis: 12 and then, help me numbers, that's--
Laura: Oh, that's good, 16. Plus? Ooh. 21.
Matt: Nice. (whack) As you bring the warhammer down, it smacks the side of the dragon, the flames all of a sudden burst off of it from the impact, you can see as you pull back, the white scales are burned and charred and blackened behind from the first attack. You bring it back, slam again on the second part. As you do, the dragon roars out in pain, the actual force of the impact almost sending it to catch itself on the other side of its body. Its head swings around to look at whoever's slamming it in the side as you bring the hammer back, swing underneath and then hit it from underneath the bottom of its torso, right where its ribs would be, with a (crunch) crack sound. You hit it a third time, leaving a second giant charred mark where you made impact.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: That'll end your turn. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: All right, I've still got Witch Bolt.
Matt: You do.
Mary: And it's still going, yes?
Matt: You don't have to roll to attack again. You just use your action.
Mary: I just fucking keep going with the fucking Witch Bolt. Can I use a cantrip, or will that dispel the Witch Bolt?
Matt: No, because most cantrips take an action. So you would not be able to. The Witch Bolt is your action. Almost all cantrips are actions to use them, so you'd be either able to use your action and the Witch Bolt, or use the cantrip. Your choice.
Mary: No, no, I'm going to stick with Witch Bolt. I'm very happy with this.
Matt: So you focus yet again, your eyes still glowing in that strange, midnight moon color with this black smoke that's framing the side of it. You take your staff and force your will through it once again. That connection between you and the dragon and that weird swirling greenish-blue energy that surrounds the dragon connects with your staff. And as it does, it sends another bolt of otherworldly energy careening into the side of the dragon. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: I watch her with my mouth agape.
Travis: d12.
Laura: Five times.
Travis: We got you.
Mary: 12. 17.
Travis: 19.
Laura: Ooh, 30.
Travis: Ooh, 30.
Laura: 37.
Mary: 37.
Laura: And one more.
Travis: No, that's five.
Matt: That was five. Then you roll a 1d6 on top of that.
Mary: Plus two on that.
Matt: All right, so 38, then a d6 from your Hex.
Mary: Six.
Matt: So 44 points of damage.
Laura: Nice!
Matt: As it once again, a giant piece of the dragon's scales shatter off the side, like you're cracking into the center of an icy, mountainous cragside. It's starting to show a little bit of damage. You guys are definitely taking this battle head-on pretty well so far.
Travis: I don't like the way he said that.
Matt: You're going to stay where you are, or are you going to move?
Mary: How close am I to it?
Matt: You're currently 20 feet away from the dragon. 15 is between the two of you.
Mary: All right. I stay within 30 feet of it.
Matt: All right, so you want to move this way?
Mary: I want to get up to the heavens. Oh, sorry. I'm going to actually, you know what? I'm going to move three feet backwards, that's it.
Matt: Okay, so you just step back? Okay. There you go. All right. That ends Zahra's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: How close am I?
Matt: You are currently about 20 feet away from the dragon.
Sam: All right. Yes. Hi. Scanlan here. I'll do, (singing) It's Bigby's Hand! Bigby's Hand. Shamone. I'll just punch him in his dragon face.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. You do a quick little hand gesture, hum to yourself the arcane ritual, and a very large, mystical see-through replica of your fist appears in the air above you and goes spinning off in the air in an arc. Straight up Popeye-punching towards the dragon. (laughs) Let's go ahead, and Bigby-- what do you have to roll for that?
Sam: Oh, I have to roll for that?
Matt: Let me see what the effect is on that, remind myself real fast. Bigby's Hand. All right, so it's an AC of 20. Or no, that's the hand, all right. Clenched fist, cool. So make a melee spell attack. So roll a d20 and then add your spell attack modifier.
Sam: That's the spell attack bonus thing? Okay. 19.
Matt: 19. (wham) Just barely hits as the fist goes slamming into the side of the dragon's face, big old Popeye punch to the side of the jaw. So go ahead and roll 4d8 points of force damage.
Sam: 4d8. I'm taking yours, and I hope that's okay. Ten, 13, 18, 21. Plus something?
Matt: That's 21 points of damage, nice. (whack) It gets socked in the jaw. The hand whips around again, preparing for the next round. Do you want to use anything, move, use your bonus action?
Sam: I'm 20 feet away. I will go 18 feet away from it and drop the grenade.
Matt: Okay. So you move forward right here?
Sam: Yeah, closer to it.
Matt: Okay. The grenade is right there on the ground that Percy made. All right. Going to stay where you are?
Sam: Can I keep moving?
Matt: You can keep moving. You moved 18 feet backward, you mean?
Sam: No, I had to move closer to it.
Matt: Right, so you moved three feet of your 25 feet, dropped it, and you still have 22 feet you can move.
Sam: But if I leave, he's going to whack me.
Matt: No, he's this far away. You have to be within a certain range for him to hit you.
Sam: Wait, how close did I put the grenade to him?
Matt: It's currently 18 feet away from him.
Sam: No, I wanted to put it two feet away from him.
Matt: Oh, I see! There, that makes more sense. So now there is a grenade on the ground, right there. You are there, right next to Grog. So yeah, you cannot move away without it taking a swipe.
Travis: Oh, look at that.
Sam: Hello, I'm a little gnome.
Travis: It's adorable.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. The giant that's here gets up. That's half of its movement. It's enough to get there, moves up behind and is going to make two of its axe-swipes.
Mary: Hit him in the arse!
Felicia: Butthole.
Sam: That was crass.
Matt: 15 doesn't hit. Second attack is going to be a 13. It's rolling shit. It swings twice and manages to catch air.
Felicia: The most useless giant.
Matt: Apparently. But you know what, they didn't smash you yet. That's a good thing. That brings us to Lyra's turn.
Felicia: Question. Can I Fireball without hitting anybody who's friendly?
Matt: From this point of view, it's going to be very difficult to pull that off. It's a 20-foot radius, so it's going to hit everything within that sphere.
Travis: Oh, you actually care about us that much?
Mary: Can I use-- everybody is really close. All right.
Felicia: Okay, so I can't do that. I think I'm going to cast Hold Monster.
Matt: Hold Monster! You take your arcane thoughts and you put them around, imagining this arcane cage that begins to form out of the ether around the dragon. These bars (crash) and tighten around it. The dragon rolls a two for its saving throw. (cheering)
Matt: But it's going to use its Legendary Resistance to automatically succeed.
Felicia: How many of those does he have?!
Travis: He has one more.
Felicia: I need to move.
Matt: (laughs) The cage tightens around it, and the dragon takes its wings and (shattering) buffs it off, the arcane cage shatters and disappears into the air.
Felicia: I was going to be impressive. Okay. I'm going to get the H out. I'm going to get as far as I can in that corner. Yeah, thank you. Bye-bye.
Matt: All righty. Good to know. All right, that ends your turn. That brings us back to the top. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to-- That grenade is sitting on top of people right now, isn't it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: You mean that hamster, right?
Matt: Your call, man.
Travis: Come on, live a little.
Taliesin: It's going to hit you.
Travis: Well, that's all right.
Laura: Yeah, but it's also going to hit Scanlan.
Matt: You still have disadvantage on your attacks, by the way.
Taliesin: Even if my attack is not against the dragon?
Matt: As long as it's within eyesight of you, you're scared.
Taliesin: Okay, in that case, I'm going to take a shot at the dragon for the moment.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Forget about that.
Matt: Disadvantage on the shot.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19. That's with disadvantage? Does hit. (cheering)
Taliesin: Oh, that's nice. 26 points of damage.
Matt: 26 points of damage, nice.
Sam: Hey! Percy.
Taliesin: I have moments.
Matt: All right, and you reload with the other one. You can't move closer to it. Do you wish to move at all?
Taliesin: No, I'm going to hold my position.
Matt: Okay. Before the end of your turn--
Taliesin: I was about to say, before I do that, I'm going to use a bonus action to do a quick heal. I'm going to use second wind.
Matt: Oh, a second wind, go for it. So you go ahead and heal yourself 1d10 plus your level.
Taliesin: That's 11 points of damage.
Matt: There you go. So you heal 11 points of damage. Before your turn is over, it's going to use its last legendary action to take its tail and swing around and whack it at the gnome that it heard sneak up behind it and drop something on the ground. That's going to be a natural 20. (shouting)
Laura: He said it so happily, too. Evil.
Taliesin: You're in trouble.
Sam: Wait, what did he do?
Matt: As you drop it, you look up and see its tail go (whoosh, whack).
Sam: Whoa, but can I sing real quick?
Matt: It's a natural 20. There's no way you can avoid this hit.
Sam: Maybe it'll fling me away from the grenade.
Felicia: (singing) Bye bye bye.
Travis: No, not cool!
Matt: 36 points of bludgeoning damage as the tail slams down onto you.
Laura: And also onto the grenade.
Sam: But it's not a concussion grenade.
Travis: Oh, I'm right fucking there! I was going to move!
Laura: I'm sorry!
Matt: And down onto the grenade you set on the ground. (boom)
Sam: Is it a concussion grenade? It's already armed, isn't it?
Matt: It is filled with black powder, and is a triggerable mechanism.
Laura: I'm sorry. I don't know why I said that.
Matt: I appreciate the reminder, because I totally forgot for a second. As it slams into you and the ground, it slams into the grenade and there's an explosion muffled sound from underneath its tail. I want Grog and Scanlan to go ahead and make dexterity saving throws.
Travis: Yes! 21.
Laura: Come on, Scanlan.
Sam: 20.
Matt: All right. Both of you guys manage to keep low to the ground, avoiding most of the blast.
Sam: I'm already low to the ground.
Matt: All right. Both of you guys take half damage from the strike. You both take 12 points of fire and bludgeoning damage.
Laura: Did the dragon take damage?
Matt: The dragon does not make its saving throw against it, though, and takes the full-- what'd I tell you guys? 12?
Sam: All right! The grenade worked! (cheering)
Matt: Pulls its tail up, and there's like a big arc of smoke off of its tail as it pulls it up and shakes out the pain that it just suffered.
Taliesin: Can I take this moment of engineering success to try and pull a wisdom saving throw against my fear that I missed on my turn?
Matt: That's right, forgot that. So go ahead and make your wisdom saving throw. The explosion was the inspiration you required.
Taliesin: Natural 20! (cheering)
Taliesin: It worked! (cackles)
Matt: With the explosion the grenade set off, you realize, wait, you might actually have this, and it worked! You could do this!
Taliesin: I built a thing! And it blew up! Kind of on purpose!
Matt: There you go. At the end of your turn, that's its final legendary action. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Can I try to shake off the attack?
Matt: At the end of your turn, you do.
Laura: Oh, at the end. But I was inspired by that explosion!
Matt: It was inspiring. It may help you shake it off at the end of the round.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to attack it. Oh, that's such a good roll.
Mary: That is. Oh, that's even better!
Laura: That's okay. It was a disadvantage. That's 27 with a disadvantage with the exploding arrow.
Matt: With the Exploding Arrow? That does hit.
Travis: More Percy goodness.
Laura: So what do I do? Do I just roll regular?
Matt: So go ahead and roll regular arrow damage. With an additional 2d6. Sorry, 3d6. Well, with the arrow, it's 2d6. The grenade was 3d6. You're 2d6.
Laura: Oh shit. 16 and then 3d6?
Matt: 3d8, sorry.
Laura: 3d8?!
Matt: Sorry. 3d8 was the grenade. 2d8 for the exploding arrow. 2d8.
Laura: 2d8.
Matt: Sorry. It's a lot of numbers.
Laura: That's okay, I'm going to roll them both. Okay. Six additional. Did I say what my other damage was. Was I speaking out loud?
Matt: Yeah, no. I marked it down. I also need Scanlan and Grog to make dexterity saving throws.
Laura: Oh no, I'm sorry, I'm stupid!
Sam: Wait, what did you just shoot at us?
Laura: An exploding arrow!
Sam: Nice.
Travis: 18.
Sam: 11.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I also meant to say I was shooting from my Blood-Seeker Bow. I pulled it out and said I was going to do it.
Matt: You pull out your Blood-Seeker Bow?
Laura: I was going to shoot from my Blood-Seeker Bow for that.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Can I do that?
Matt: I'll let it. So it is now taking an ongoing ten points of bleeding damage? Now, you take three points of fire damage. Scanlan, you take six points of fire damage. You guys avoid the grenade, and then (arrow noises) a second explosion again.
Taliesin: I'm sorry. I'm a genius! I'm sorry! Sorry! Oh god, I'm clever.
Laura: So for my second attack, I want to throw Trinket in and I want Trinket to go up and attack him.
Matt: Trinket rushes in and is going to make two attacks at it.
Laura: He's going to do two claw attacks, so that's 2d4 each time.
Matt: Go for it. So go ahead and roll for the first strike. He's no longer scared, so Trinket does not have the disadvantage.
Laura: Okay, he doesn't hit on the first one. But the second one, he gets a 21!
Matt: 21 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Yes! Okay. Was I wrong?
Mary: That's 23.
Laura: Oh, okay. Either way.
Matt: It hits even harder!
Mary: It hits harder?
Matt: (Irish accent) Exactly. What's that about? Rightly so.
Laura: That's 13 extra damage for Trinket.
Matt: 13 extra damage as Trinket runs up, first strike hits the armor and just streaks across without damage, but as soon as the dragon turns around to see the giant brown bear that has gotten brave enough to strike it, its other claw goes and sinks into the side of one of its calves and tears a portion of the dragon's flesh. It (snarls) roars and Trinket, bringing its claw down, roars back at it. Dragon roar versus bear roar. All right. That ends your turn. It is now Rimefang's turn. Rimefang--
Mary: He has no more of these legendary saves, yes?
Sam: No, he has one.
Matt: Well, one more legendary resistance.
Felicia: He used a wing-buffet and then two saves.
Sam: He's got one more.
Felicia: Oh, one more save. Ugh.
Sam: If he chooses to use it. He might save it for later in the fight.
Matt: Great. So the dragon is now going to (flapping) fly--
Sam: No, he won't. I cast a spell on it as it retreats from me because I am a war caster.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And I will cast Bigby's Hand to grapple that shit and pull him back down. (cheering)
Matt: That's right, you took the war caster feat. Okay.
Sam: Don't you fly away from me, motherfucker!
Travis: So hot for you right now.
Matt: All right, so you use your action to do Bigby's Clenched, no, Grasping Hand. No, it's--
Sam: It's the grapple one to pull its wings together so it can't fly away?
Matt: Yes. All right, so. So you use the hand's strength score, so go ahead and roll a d20 and then add plus eight to it.
Sam: 18 plus eight. 26.
Matt: As the dragon brings its wings up, the hand grabs its wings together and forces it back down to the ground. It shakes off the effect, but it's unable to fly away.
Sam: You will leave when Burt Reynolds tells you to leave! (laughter)
Matt: Okay. You also deal 2d6 plus five damage to it.
Sam: 2d6. That's another 18.
Matt: 18 points of damage as the hand crushes on it, holding it in place, it does not get a chance to move. All right. Angrily, in reaction to that, the dragon-- well, first off let me see. Does not get its breath weapon back yet, unfortunately. It is going to use multiattack, so it gets three attacks: one bite and two claw attacks. It's going to make all of them against you.
Sam: Of course it does. And thus ends Scanlan.
Travis: No!
Mary: No!
Matt: We'll make each attack as it goes. So the first attack against you is going to be the bite attack. That is a 23 to hit?
Sam: That hits.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Are you unconscious?
Sam: I will be very soon.
Matt: That's going to be 18 points of piercing damage.
Laura: Oh no, Scanlan's unconscious!
Matt: Are you unconscious? Okay. It would be an additional d8 points of cold damage. Scanlan falls unconscious on the ground. It's going to take a claw attack down. It's already all-in. Its second claw attack hits. You immediately fail a death saving throw from the second strike. The second claw attack hits you, as well, as it's focused on you. You've failed two death saving throws.
Laura: Oh my god!
Sam: It's a dragon.
Matt: That's the end of his turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I race over to Scanlan and I pour a level-3 healing potion into Scanlan's mouth.
Matt: Okay, so Grog, you use your action to pull out, grab Scanlan, and pour it into his mouth. This is the superior one?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: You heal 8d4 plus eight hit points.
Sam: Do I roll? Does he roll?
Matt: I'll let you roll for it; it's fine.
Sam: 8d4? Can I roll 4d8s?
Matt: (laughs) 8d4.
Sam: 8d4.
Matt: You have a better chance, actually.
Travis: This is my friend of the lady favors. I need him!
Matt: As you see the dragon bites down on him, he falls unconscious on the ground, the ice around his wounds, and his eyes just roll back into his head, unconscious. One claw slams down into his body, the gnome shakes from the impact. The second claw comes down into his torso and pulls back, you can see bits of flesh and muscle pull back from its claw as it pulls away, and Scanlan's on death's door. You rush over and grab and lift him up, take the healing potion, pop off the cork with your teeth, and you rage-feed him the potion. "Drink it!"
Sam: I'm at 19 now.
Matt: So you're at 19 hit points and you're conscious now, the wounds seal up. You've still failed two death saving throws. They're gone until the end of the battle.
Travis: Can I do anything else after I've poured it into his-- can I do anything else?
Matt: You have a bonus action.
Travis: Can I throw him the fuck away from the dragon? Pick him up and chuck him towards Lyra?
Matt: I'll say because you're frenzied raged, normally you would get an additional attack. I will say you can use that.
Travis: And I won't throw. I'll slide him on the icy floor towards Lyra.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: Okay. Natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: As he wakes up, Grog goes (grunts, whoosh) and slip-n-slides you across the icy floor. You come to a stop about 15 feet away-- actually, be about there. You're still prone; you're on the ground.
Laura: But you can take a potion on your turn, at least?
Travis: And I just turn around and give it the eyebrow of you're-fucking-dead.
Matt: (laughs) All right. That ends Grog's turn. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: Witch Bolt. Fucking Witch Bolt.
Matt: By the way, your Bigby's Hand has faded, because when you fell unconscious you lost concentration. Witch Bolt?
Mary: If you're still within range. I push even harder for Scanlan's sake.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll 5d12, I believe it is?
Mary: The fire turns from white to yellow. I'm raging. What is it?
Matt: Whatever the spell is. Is it 5d10 or 5d12?
Mary: It is 5d12.
Matt: There you go. 5d12 plus 1d6.
Mary: Eight. Give me some math here, guys.
Travis: Okay. 14. 29. 45.
Mary: 45 plus two.
Laura: 47.
Mary: Plus 11 attack.
Laura: No, 47, and 1d6.
Mary: 1d6. Six.
Matt: All right, so what's the total damage on that, then?
Laura: 53.
Mary: 51.
Matt: 51 points of damage.
Travis: Did I best you on math? It's a dark day when Grog beats Vex on math.
Mary: She's very upset about the whole Scanlan thing.
Laura: I'm still very scared!
Matt: That is nasty. All right, so. As you blast again, the fury of seeing Scanlan torn down to the ground and nearly devoured by this dragon, you blast again. This time the greenish-blue energy flaring up into a vibrant, angry yellow, and now you can see what once was almost like a bolt of arcane moon energy becomes an actual burning fire in its visual. Do you wish to move, or are you going to stay where you are?
Mary: I'm still how many feet away from him?
Matt: You are currently 20 feet away from him.
Mary: I will stay where I am.
Matt: All right.
Mary: Can I give-- no I can't, I'd have to go and give it to him, wouldn't I?
Matt: At the end of your turn, because it's regained its legendary actions, it's going to use a wing attack against Grog and every creature around it, including Trinket and the one giant. So as it takes the hit from the Witch Bolt, (heavy breathing) the arcane hand no longer grasping its wings, its wings flare out, (whoosh) and swings around with its wings, hitting everything around you. Dexterity saving throw for Grog, for the giant, and for Trinket. Giant does not make it.
Travis: 18.
Matt: 18, it's a DC 19. Make it for Trinket.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: All right, so Trinket and Grog both take 13 points of bludgeoning damage and are both knocked prone.
Travis: Halved, because I'm raging.
Laura: Halved, because he's got Stoneskin.
Matt: Yeah. Trinket takes half damage, as well. So you both take seven points of bludgeoning damage, but you're still knocked prone. You both fall onto your back. The giant also is knocked prone there. All right. That ends Zahra's turn. That brings us to Scanlan. You're conscious. You're on the ground.
Sam: I will stand.
Matt: All right. So you still have half your movement. You can still move roughly ten feet. Any direction.
Sam: Taking a potion is an action or a bonus?
Matt: I consider it a bonus action to keep things moving. Action to administer it to somebody else.
Travis: Do that thing.
Sam: I will Dimension Door way over there.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Scanlan stands up, waves his hand, and this blackened archway just (whoosh) appears next to him with this crackling sound of energy. He leaps through it and vanishes out of sight. You are now in darkness, you cannot see anything except for a little bit of light bouncing off of the top of the cavern, glittering across all the ice crystals, but you are in complete shadow. (breathing heavily)
Sam: And I'll take one of those four healing potions that someone gave us. Were they moderate?
Matt: They were superior. I think Grog used one.
Felicia: Yeah, we handed them out.
Sam: Okay, I definitely have one, so I'll take it.
Matt: 8d4 plus eight.
Laura: Who all took them?
Mary: I didn't, because I have two.
Felicia: I don't think she and I took them.
Laura: Oh, the four of us, because we're assholes?
Matt: I think you each took one.
Felicia: I sacrificed myself.
Matt: So we'll consider that. It's fine. All right, so that ends Scanlan's turn. The giant is going to get up.
Travis: Get up, Gary, you piece of shit!
Matt: That would be a 21. That hits. And that'll be a 17. That misses. But it does manage to hit with an attack, finally. This whole time. That's 24 points of slashing damage to the dragon. As its first strike whiffs, and as it brings it back with a backhand, it brings its shield up to protect itself. The axe (smack) lands a good seven to eight inches into the dragon's hide. (roars) The head turns around. "You traitor! I will eat every one of you!" That ends the giant's turn. It's going to stay right there, trying to finish him off. That ends the giant's turn. Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: I still can't Fireball, right?
Matt: You could? Depending on where you want to place it, you may hit other things.
Laura: You can place it-- hit the giant and the dragon.
Felicia: Then the giant will wake up. If we hit the giants-- does he look almost dead?
Matt: You can tell he's taken a few hits from the dragon, but the other one is the one that was completely wrecked.
Laura: Is the other giant dead?
Matt: It is frozen in place and dead. It was partially disintegrated by Lyra earlier, and the frost breath finished it off.
Felicia: I could maybe hit Trinket or Grog?
Sam: Trinket's protected.
Felicia: I don't think he's protected from fire damage. It's a lot of damage. I don't want to kill Trinket.
Travis: Is it fire, and it's a frost dragon?
Felicia: It's a very big spell. It's 8d6. Can't really use it. I'll try to Hold Monster again.
Laura: How much radius does the dragon take up?
Matt: The dragon itself is 15 feet across on each side, so if you were to hit the dragon, it would still hit everything directly around it.
Felicia: Yeah, let me try to Hold Monster again. At least force him to use his thing.
Matt: All right. Actually, he fails his saving throw, but uses his third and final legendary resistance to resist the Hold Monster spell.
Taliesin: Good, you drained it. That's over with.
Matt: He's out of legendary resistance. He turns around and looks at you now. It was currently glaring at the giant, growling at everyone around it, and as soon as that spell hits it with the cage once again, (heavy impacts) it breaks it with its wings and turns around, (whoosh) and opens its mouth right towards you.
Felicia: I'm going to move away as far as I can.
Matt: Okay. So you are here.
Felicia: Yes. That's very far. Yes. Thank you.
Matt: Okay. All right, that ends your turn. Back up to Percy.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to take one last really good shot. I'm going to shoot him right in the face again. I'm going to spend my grit point and hit him in the face. Let's make this work. Yay! That hits. That's 31 to hit.
Matt: 31 will hit, yeah. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: I'm going to roll damage. That's 15 points of damage, but he's got disadvantage on all attacks until my turn.
Matt: He did take ten points of bleeding damage from your-- Laura. It did take ten points of bleeding damage from your bow, and it does save against the bleed effect, so that's gone, unfortunately. But you did ten additional damage to him.
Taliesin: I'm going to move in this direction. Hug the wall.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah, I think right there.
Matt: Okay. So as you take your shot, (gunshot) it ricochets off the armor. The dragon's starting to look a little rough. You can see bits of the blood beginning to seep from the inside of its scales. It's starting to look a little harsher and harsher. It's still standing up pretty well, but you can see, it's starting to get a little more battle-worn. That ends Percy's turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to move Trinket away.
Matt: Trinket stands up, and Trinket's going to move back this way.
Laura: Yeah, and then hide behind that outcropping thing. Yeah.
Matt: Okay. As he moves away, the dragon uses his reaction. It's going to be a bite attack on him, actually.
Taliesin: With disadvantage.
Matt: With disadvantage?
Taliesin: With disadvantage.
Matt: Oh, because of the head shot. Yeah. Well, it rolled a two and a 15. (cheering)
Matt: So thank god you put that on there. So as it (whoosh) lashes out, Trinket's armor actually takes the impact, and some of the teeth crack a little bit against the armor, and the jaw pulls back as Trinket just (bear moan) runs off behind the ice wall. What are you doing?
Laura: I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns.
Matt: Did you make a wisdom save last turn to try to resist the fear effect?
Laura: I did, and I failed it.
Matt: That's right. Okay.
Laura: Yeah. So I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns on the dragon.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll for attack.
Laura: 26.
Matt: 26 hits, yes. Hail of Thorns. What's the radius on that?
Laura: That's a good question. Hail of Thorns.
Matt: (laughs) How's that go?
Laura: Okay, wait. Next time you hit a creature with a ranged weapon-- spell-- range. It just hits it, but then everything within five feet makes a dexterity saving throw. Sorry, guys.
Matt: So Grog, make a dexterity saving throw. Because you're prone, I'd say with disadvantage.
Laura: Oh. Sorry, Grog.
Travis: Nine?
Matt: Actually, you're fine. Just straight roll.
Travis: Oh, great. 18.
Matt: 18? All right. You take half of the 1d10 piercing damage. So roll for the actual arrow damage, and then 1d10. The giant does not make it, and the dragon does not make it. They both fail.
Laura: 13 for the actual arrow, plus another five for Hunter's Mark.
Matt: All right. What's the 1d10 for the Hail of Thorns?
Laura: 3d10 because I'm casting it at 3rd level. 18 for the Hail of Thorns.
Matt: 18. So that's nine points of damage to you, Grog. Nine points to the giant, and nine points to the dragon. All right.
Laura: Oh. And then I get another attack.
Matt: You do. You have two attacks.
Laura: (giggles) This is crazy! Okay, so I'm going to-- should I do Conjure Barrage? Conjure Barrage at them, as well.
Matt: All right. Conjure Barrage is an action to cast, right?
Laura: Oh, you're right. So a regular. I can only do a regular attack. Okay, so regular attack. Oh, that doesn't hit. That's a 16.
Matt: That unfortunately does not hit. Well, it hits, but the arrow shatters across the dragon's armor. All right, that ends your turn. As the giant takes a blasting impact of thorns across its torso, it looks to the dragon, Rimefang. Looks at the rest of you, which some of you have fallen, some of you are on the ground. It decides that perhaps it chose its alliances poorly. And you can see, it takes its axe and shield ready, and almost in a phalanx format is now alongside the dragon. All right, that brings us to Rimefang's turn. Rimefang is going to (flapping) fly up in the air.
Travis: Oh, he's reaching for shit. He duplicates himself into another dragon. Now you're all dead.
Matt: Now he's going to--
Travis: Oh no, the ale's gone!
Matt: This way, up at the top, and is currently up in the air (flapping). Let's see. He gets his cold breath back. Oh, did you roll to try and shake the frightened effect, by the way?
Laura: I didn't.
Matt: Go ahead and do that now.
Mary: Come on, darling. Come on!
Laura: Natural 20!
Travis: Natural 20!
Matt: That will do it. As you shake the frightened effect, you're like, "Ah! All right." You're steeled. "No, I know these guys. I'm trying to kill these guys." As you see it fly overhead. Rears back its head and then (whoosh) arc across the ground with its breath weapon, hitting Percy, Vex, and Lyra. You guys all need to make constitution saving throws.
Taliesin: Oh, so there's no disadvantage roll for him to make here, is there?
Matt: No.
Felicia: 23.
Matt: 23 on the constitution saving throw?
Felicia: Yeah, I actually. I get five constitution, and I rolled an 18.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: 15? What did you roll, Vex?
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. All right. (chuckles) So as the ice breath (whoosh) passes across, it's like every center point of the worst ice storm or blizzard impacting you with a series of punches every single second as this breath caresses and beats your body left and right. Both of you guys take 54 points of cold damage.
Taliesin: 54?
Matt: 54. Lyra, you take 27 points of cold damage.
Travis: And the room gets quiet.
Mary: Really fast.
Matt: It continues its flight pattern (flapping, impacts) and lands on top of this upper platform.
Laura: Oh, he's got another fucking platform?
Sam: How high up?
Matt: That's ten feet up. There are two platforms on opposite sides of this room now. That ends its turn. It is now Grog's turn.
Travis: That giant is definitely against us?
Matt: It looks to be questioning its loyalty at the moment, yeah.
Travis: You questioned at the wrong time. I charge Gary and hack away.
Matt: All right. You get up, and you have enough movement, definitely, to move up into battle with him. Go ahead and attack.
Travis: (laughs) What do I do, again? What is this shit? This thing plus five. 16. No, attack bonus.
Matt: You have to hit first. You have to roll to hit.
Travis: I know. Jesus! It's like I've never done this before. 24.
Laura: No, that was higher than 24.
Travis: 16 plus nine? Oh, it's 25.
Matt: Hits. Roll a second attack.
Travis: 28.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: And 20.
Matt: 20 hits. Roll damage against the giant.
Travis: (quietly) What is this, 1d10 plus five? Oh, that's ten. 18. 18?
Laura: Plus six fire damage.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: Six!
Travis: 24 on the first one.
Matt: Nice.
Travis: Sorry, new math. 13 plus-- 17 on the second one.
Matt: All right, and the third one?
Travis: 12, plus-- 15 on the third one.
Matt: As you rush forward, (whack, whack) the first two hits, one hits in the side, and you can see it (grunts) reacts. The second one, it brings its shield up, and you splinter the buckler shield on its arm, and as it shatters, you can see the bones in its arm (crunch) crack from the impact, and it drops its arm to one side, with the flames itself beginning to set fire to the furs it has on its arm. (grunts) He tries to shake off the fire that's on its arm. As you see it bring its arm up, it reveals the underside of its torso. You use that to reach down, leap in the air with an overhead swipe, slam this warhammer with all your strength into the side of its ribcage. As you do, (crack) you can see its torso cave in, and you're probably sure that the splintered bones seem to have impacted something serious as the giant all of a sudden, (death rattle). (cheering)
Mary: Dead? Dead!
Matt: From the damage left over from the battle you had earlier, the damage it already took from the dragon, and that was just enough to finish it off by two hit points. That ends your turn, Grog. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: How far away from the dragon am I?
Matt: You are 30 feet away.
Mary: That's exactly right, which means Witch Bolt is still in effect, and I'm going to fucking unleash on this white wyrm of death.
Matt: All right! (boof) A third time, now, you release Witch Bolt. It slams into it. The dragon actually tries to shift out of the way--
Mary: He can't.
Matt: He can't, because you're locked in.
Mary: You can't get away from me.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Creepy Zahra!
Mary: Creepy Zahra. Well, I am a demon. All right. 11.
Travis: 27. 39. 48. 1d6. 53.
Mary: 53.
Felicia: Damn!
Travis: You bad bitch!
Matt: All right, so. It tries to dodge out of the way. This time, as you focus again, the yellowish energy has now transitioned to a deep, hot, searing red flame from your eyes.
Mary: Oh, you can't run!
Matt: (boof) You focus again. The beam now, transitioning into a similar red-hot color, streaks across and slams into the side of the dragon. You can see the impact. The scales are left with this glowing red heat from the blast, and part of its armor is torn open. You can see the burn-charred muscle beneath. The dragon's looking pretty rough. Do you wish to move, or are you staying right there?
Mary: I'm going to approach it by five feet.
Matt: There you go. That brings us to Scanlan's turn. You are way over here.
Sam: I will first use my bonus action on myself. Can I cast Healing Word on myself?
Matt: Yeah. Sure.
Sam: Okay, d4 plus five. That's nothing. Actually, wait. Can I just take a potion as a bonus action?
Matt: If you want to, yeah.
Sam: Okay, I'll just do that. I'll take a greater heal. 4d4 plus four.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Anyway, I'll roll it later. Sorry. (counts quietly) Plus four is 11. Okay, I'm pretty much back up to--
Matt: There you go. Are you going to stay where you are?
Sam: I'm how far?
Matt: You are over here.
Sam: But how far?
Matt: Oh. It's 90 feet away from you.
Sam: (whispering) Sniper shot. (louder) From the shadows, I cast Lightning Bolt, which has a hundred-foot range.
Matt: It does, and because it's high enough--
Sam: If the angle is nice and clean.
Matt: Yes, that's true. So out of the darkness, release a bolt of energy. It's going to attempt to make a saving throw. What's the DC on it?
Sam: It's my spell? What is it?
Matt: Yeah, it's whatever your spell DC is.
Sam: 17?
Matt: 17, okay. It does make its saving throw, so it is half damage. Go ahead and roll. Rolled a 16 plus five.
Sam: It was 8d6, but now it's 4d6, right?
Matt: No, it's 8d6 still. You roll the total, and it's halved.
Sam: All right, what is that? (counts quietly) 26. 13.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Yes, dude. Way not to be dead.
Felicia: Way to not die.
Travis: I need my whoring partner.
Matt: All right, at the end of your turn, it's going to use one of its legendary actions to make a tail attack and reach over the side here at Percy, who's trying to stay hidden there. Brings around his tail. (whoosh) Comes swinging down over the side. Another natural 20. (groaning)
Felicia: He looks disappointed.
Laura: He doesn't want us to die.
Felicia: It's going to happen.
Mary: No! Would you stop it, Lyra? Come on!
Felicia: I'm sorry. I have self-esteem issues.
Mary: Not today, you don't.
Matt: 32 points of bludgeoning damage to you, Percy. (whack) From over the top.
Taliesin: I'm out.
Matt: Percy is down as the tail (whack) slams him down. You can see now, as the tail pulls back, the ice on the ground is slightly concave. There's pieces of ice that have shattered and jutted up from the impact. As the tail pulls away, dropping chunks of stone and ice, you can see a currently unconscious Percy is now face-down and pushed probably a good half-foot into the ground itself. Your face is a mess, if they ever pull you up from that right now.
Taliesin: I like my face.
Matt: That ends Scanlan's turn. The giant is dead. There are no giants; they're gone. Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: Okay, I can Fireball him now. (cheering)
Felicia: Fireball. Ooh, that looks pretty good! Six and six and six.
Laura: Come on, Lyra. Killing blow.
Travis: Nuke him. Nuke the bastard.
Felicia: So that's 18, 28, 38, 52. 52 points of damage.
Matt: 52 points? And what's the DC on your spell?
Felicia: It's no DC. It just hits.
Matt: Right, but it has a save.
Felicia: 17.
Matt: 17. Okay, it rolled a 15 plus five, so it is half damage, but that's still 26 points of damage to it.
Felicia: It's not bad.
Matt: (explosion noise) As you reach out, this arcing bead of red streaks through the darkness, impacts right at the side of the dragon's wing, and then (boof) bursts into a giant ball of flame. The whole cavern rocks from the sound of the impact. As the dragon pulls back, you can see this giant char mark on the outside of its wing. It's looking pretty rough. It's still standing, but it's looking pretty rough. Unfortunately, the radius of the blast, as it is a 20-foot radius, is large enough. Percy, his body is hit in the impact and blasted onto its back now. He rolls partly out of the impact--
Taliesin: Do I actually roll?
Matt: You actually (boof) over there. You're still technically in the same spot, but you're on your back now. You do automatically fail a death saving throw from that.
Felicia: Oh my god, I'm so sorry.
Matt: All right, that ends Lyra's turn. That brings us to the top. Percy. Make a saving throw. Just roll a ten or higher.
Taliesin: I did not roll a ten or higher.
Matt: You fail a second death saving throw.
Sam: Oh god!
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: (screams) Okay, here's the thing. Did he roll far enough away that he is not within ten feet of the dragon?
Matt: The dragon is ten feet up.
Laura: So he's far enough away.
Matt: In theory, he'd be just out of the way of a ten-foot radius. A 20-foot radius, no.
Laura: Okay, then I'm going to Lightning Arrow the dragon.
Matt: Okay.
Felicia: Do you have a potion?
Travis: I do.
Taliesin: Grog's got it.
Laura: Do I have to attack? I do have to attack regular.
Matt: You do have to roll the attack, yes.
Laura: That's good. That's a 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Laura: Okay, so that is 4d8 against the dragon.
Matt: Yeah, 4d8 lightning damage. What's the DC on it?
Laura: 14.
Matt: 14? It does not make the save. Rolled a three.
Sam: Come on, Vex. Come on. Do it for Trinket.
Travis: Do it for Percy. Do it for Pike.
Taliesin: Let's not have another Pike, please.
Laura: 17.
Matt: Plus your Hunter's Mark.
Laura: That's good. That's another six for Hunter's Mark. Plus another 11.
Matt: Plus another 11. Okay. As the arrow releases, once again, (arrow flying) it turns into a bolt of pure arcane energy, smacking into the side of it. You can see the explosion hit and the energy crackle through the rest of its body. Its muscles shudder and it has to grasp the side of the top of this platform to keep itself steady. You can see now, the dragon's (heavy breathing). One eye is partially closed, and with each breath you can see this frost mist emanating from its breath. It looks like it's on its last legs.
Laura: For my second attack-- (cheering)
Laura: For my second attack, I'm going to regular attack him. Oh my god. Just going to regular attack him.
Matt: Roll for attack.
Laura: Jesus. Please. Oh! It's 30.
Matt: 30 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: 13, 14, 15.
Matt: Including the Hunter's Mark?
Laura: No! Four.
Matt: Okay, so 19 total? Okay. As the arrow (arrow flying, impacts) embeds itself in the side of the neck, the dragon reaches up and it's scratching at the pain. As it pulls the arrow out, blood begins to pour down its side.
Laura: Ugh, he's still alive!
Matt: It's rough. That ends your turn.
Laura: Fuck! Is it his turn?
Matt: It is now Rimefang's turn. Rimefang turns. (heavy breaths, roars) and lets out a spray of icy damage out in this direction at an arc this way. I need to get a dexterity saving throw from Lyra, from Vex, and from Zahra.
Mary: Do I have a reaction?
Matt: After this, you will.
Mary: Okay, got it.
Felicia: Eight.
Matt: Eight?
Laura: 28.
Matt: 28. Okay. Zahra?
Mary: 11.
Matt: 11. Okay, so that is 54 points of damage to you.
Felicia: I'm down.
Matt: Lyra is currently (crackles) frozen in place right now from the blast. She's unconscious, and there is a coat of ice around her body holding her in place. How are you doing on hit points?
Laura: I'm at 28 hit points.
Matt: Okay, you kick the frost off, and you're on one knee. And you take 54 points of ice damage.
Laura: Are you unconscious, too?
Mary: Nope. I'm not. Do I have a reaction?
Matt: You have a reaction?
Mary: I do, I use Hellish Rebuke.
Sam: Oh! What is that? It sounds hellish.
Mary: I know. I get one per day.
Matt: All right, so the creature must make a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: So it does it back to him?
Mary: Yes.
Matt: That is 15. What's the DC?
Mary: I don't know.
Laura: 17.
Mary: 17.
Matt: Okay, so it takes 2d10 fire damage. Go ahead and roll that.
Laura: Yes! Oh my god, you can kill it just because it attacked you?!
Taliesin: Kill it out of spite.
Felicia: Tell him he's very ugly.
Mary: Nine.
Matt: Nine points of fire damage? How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Mary: I don't know what that means!
Matt: How do you finish this dragon with your Hellish Rebuke?
Taliesin: Make it good!
Matt: After it finishes blasting you with ice damage, you watch the wizard frozen in place. You see Percy unconscious and bleeding on the ground. You see Vex on the ground, about to fall unconscious. Your friends are lost in the darkness around you, and suddenly you feel that tiefling surge of anger within you, and you?
Mary: Almost completely turn into flame as I walk towards it. Can I use anything?
Matt: How do you want the Hellish Rebuke to be?
Mary: I want this Hellish Rebuke to be me levitating in the air and using my dark dragon staff to blast it from here down, just eviscerating everything from the bowels down with hellish fire.
Matt: So after the frost takes on the front of you, and there is ice caked against the front of your armor, you suddenly look up at it and as your eyes flare with flame, the ice (shatters) evaporates from the sheer heat your body's emanating. You take a step forward, but the step itself is about an inch off the ground. A second step, you're two inches off the ground. And with each progressive step, you're slowly floating in the air, the warlock energy now swirling around you. The shadows are spinning around you and coalescing around your feet. As you look forward towards it, you see the portion of its armor that was blasted open earlier, with its flesh and sinew exposed. You take the staff forward, and with an angry snarl, the one last blast of infernal energy, the Hellish Rebuke then (shooting sound) sinking into the side of its chest. As the inside of its flesh begins to spark and smoke, the dragon (grunts) reaches out and grabs the side. It's beginning to try to bring its wings up to fly away, and as it does, (explosion noise) a blast of infernal flame comes cascading out of its chest. You can see now, all of its armor begins to peel back as its chest is blown open. Its eyes suddenly go from this piercing blue-white to a dull gray color, and it reaches out, and (heavy breathing) "No." It tumbles forward onto the ground next to Percy, almost crushing his unconscious form. It gets up, (impacts) takes two more steps forward. "No. You can't."
Mary: Yes, I fucking can! (cheering)
Matt: And with that, Rimefang falls dead to the ground. (cheering)
Sam: I run over to Lyra, cast Seeming on myself to give myself the appearance of Aldor, and I pour a potion into her mouth, and I wake her up.
Felicia: What happened?
Sam: You did good, baby.
Felicia: (gasps) And I'm just in him. (laughter)
Travis: I run over to Percy and pour a healing potion in his mouth, and I don't "in him." (laughter)
Matt: You can just barely get there with your movement. Thank god you're a barbarian.
Taliesin: Oh! What happened? Oh, look. It's dead!
Mary: Hello, Percy.
Laura: Oh my god. I stand up and I give Zahra a giant hug.
Taliesin: Can we cut that bastard up for scrap now? Ugh.
Laura: You were amazing.
Mary: Forever besties?
Felicia: Wait, then I notice. Aldor, why are you so short?
Sam: Baby. I can't change height, so I release Seeming and I'm back to normal.
Felicia: That was not as good a kiss as usual. I was worried, but it was special.
Travis: Oh! (laughter)
Mary: Is it time to take what we need from this thing?
Laura: Gather up all of the shit we have to take and put it in the bag of stuff.
Taliesin: That would be  two white dragon eyes, one white dragon tongue, one white dragon heart, six white dragon claws, and 20 white dragon teeth.
Matt: Who's harvesting this?
Mary: You have the bag.
Felicia: It's nature. Who has good animal handling?
Laura: Wait, we have to harvest it special?
Matt: Part of harvesting the organs from the creature is a delicate process.
Laura: Is it nature? What is it a check for?
Matt: It's a nature-based check, yes.
Laura: I have a low nature. What do you have?
Taliesin: Very low nature.
Mary: I have a six nature. Can I harvest him?
Matt: You can.
Travis: Can I go and loot the giant that's not frozen?
Matt: You can. You can also help with this roll.
Sam: Inspiration? Okay. I inspire them.
Matt: How do you inspire Zahra as she goes to start carving into this dragon?
Sam: I will sing something. I don't know what. I'm so out of it. We just killed a dragon! (laughter)
Sam: I go over to her and I'm like, (incoherent, impressed stammering). And that's all I got.
Matt: And with that, you killed a dragon.
Mary: It was a group effort.
Laura: Can I help at all? Can I assist? Can I hold her utensils for her?
Matt: Between the two of you working together, that would give you advantage on the checks. Which one are you going for first? Are you going for the eyes? Choose which portion you're harvesting first.
Laura: Everything. We need all of it, don't we?
Matt: Yeah, but which part are you harvesting first? You choose with each roll. You have eyes, heart--
Felicia: Can I assist? Can I help?
Matt: We already have an assist over there.
Felicia: I want to be helpful.
Laura: We'll all stand and watch.
Taliesin: Start with the eyes.
Laura: Pop them out. Pop those bitches out. But you get an advantage.
Matt: You will get advantage on it because she's assisting you.
Mary: That's nine plus--
Laura: Yeah, that's 15 plus six is 21.
Matt: 21. Okay. As you come over, using a dagger that you have. Pop very delicately each dragon eye out and place it into the satchel.
Laura: Into the cooler bag.
Matt: As you pull each eye out, it's like holding the coldest orb you've ever held. It actually burns your fingers as you clutch it. (gasp) Throw it inside and have to shake your hand off.
Laura: I jiggle them around in the bag. Just because.
Felicia: We have a special crate?
Laura: Yeah, I'm holding it.
Taliesin: The tongue would be next.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for that.
Laura: Plus another roll for advantage. Ooh, that's way better. Plus six. 23.
Matt: 23, all right. So you manage to, with the help of Vex pulling the jaw open, Grog holding onto the side, Lyra's supervising. You manage to get to the base of the tongue, carve off-- And you (slurp-pop) pull out the rather massive, very heavy tongue-- which, once again, this in itself, is like (yelps). Put it in real fast. And in the process of doing so, you suffer two points of cold damage, but the tongue has been harvested.
Taliesin: A heart.
Matt: This one's going to be difficult. Part of the chest is blown open, exposing the interior, but there has been damage done to the inside, so go ahead and attempt this.
Travis: Two rolls.
Mary: 12. 14. Plus six is 20.
Matt: Oh, 20! 20 is just what you needed. You pry in and crack open a portion of its body, and you begin to slowly carve out the portion, the heart, and the dragon heart itself is massive. It's huge, and it takes three of you to pull it out.
Laura: How do we fit it in this bag? Is it magic?
Matt: You don't know, but it's not going to fit in that satchel.
Mary: How heavy is it?
Matt: I'd say it probably weighs a good 200 pounds.
Felicia: I should know what people would do in the guild situation if they had an organ that wouldn't fit in the bag, right? We have to preserve it.
Matt: Travel back quickly or have preservation magic. Whether it would be a necromancy-based magic.
Felicia: Nope.
Travis: We're not shoving it in there? Are we cutting it in half?
Laura: We could roll it up in one of our fancy robes, though, and hold on to it. And pack it in-- oh, we, yeah! Let's chisel out some of the ice.
Matt: As you begin to wrap it up, you notice that the cold air begins to (cracking) crack around it, and the heart itself is freezing, as per the nature of a freshly dead white dragon. So it might be a good thing.
Laura: What about all this gold in the cavern?
Taliesin: Claws and teeth.
Mary: Teeth. Yes, roll to carve. Seven. 13.
Matt: 13. Going through the jaw, you begin plucking teeth out, piece by piece (cling, cling) and most of them, you notice, as part of the nature of the body, are beginning to decay faster than you expected. A lot of the teeth are becoming brittle and breaking, and as you start pulling them out, you're frustrated because with each one it seems to almost shatter as soon as you claw it from the jaw. By the end of it, you manage to gather about three dragon's teeth before the rest of them begin to break.
Travis: We have a shitload of dragon teeth left over.
Laura: But we need white dragon.
Travis: He was a white dragon!
Laura: Or wait, are you sure it wasn't the blue dragon that we harvested?
Travis: No, it was a white dragon, we have 37 left over.
Laura: Okay. We have 37 dragon teeth from the first white dragon.
Mary: Can I also get-- if there's any powder left or anything, for myself, I would like to--
Taliesin: Claws, still. We have to get claws still.
Mary: I know, but if it's on the ground, and it's in front of me, I would just like to put it in my little bag, to have it for my own spellcasting.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make a nature roll for that. Roll two more nature checks, or one more check, with advantage.
Laura: Another one.
Mary: That sucks, too. 13.
Matt: Okay. You managed to pull out some of the more sensitive parts of the dragon, but as you begin to cut away at some of the scales-- you're going for the scales or the claws?
Mary: I was going for the powdered-- the remains of whatever teeth that we couldn't get.
Matt: Oh, that! Never mind then, sorry. So then, that you can gather without a problem. It's powdered dragon ice bone, so yeah, that's fine. All right.
Taliesin: We still need claws.
Laura: Let's go for claws.
Travis: One more.
Mary: Nine. 15.
Matt: 15? In beginning to pull out the portions of its hands and getting the base of where the claw itself begins to grow, you manage to pull out five functional dragon claws without them breaking.
Mary: How many did we need, Percy?
Taliesin: Six. Do we have an extra? We have one?
Matt: You guys, prepared with your bag.
Mary: Hello! Prepared people!
Travis: Oh, I looted the giant.
Matt: All right, you looted the giant.
Mary: Now can we get some scales?
Laura: Just her? All of us?
Matt: All of you working together to get scales.
Felicia: All of us? Free for all?
Matt: Well, this is the roll they're making for it.
Laura: 20 for scales.
Matt: 20 for scales, okay. So all of you working together, you manage to pull off what amounts to about 25 pounds of dragon scales. Mind you, the scales are heavy and they're about that big each. It would be enough if you were to bring it to a master craftsman, to possibly construct a set of armor from them.
Laura: That's why we have so many pounds of dragon scales from the previous dragons! We could make three sets of armor right now.
Felicia: I'm going to look around and just see if there's a stash or a hoard that he was gathering.
Matt: All right, there are individual gold pieces embedded all through. It would take you weeks to chisel it all from the walls.
Mary: Are there any giant gems that we can see?
Matt: Everyone make a perception check.
Laura: I want to get my diamond back, too, from earlier.
Travis: Can I loot the bloody giant?
Laura: Natural 20 for perception! Ooh! Sparklies!
Matt: All right. So Grog. You go over to the giant that's not frozen. Looking at it, most of its armor itself is made for a giant's form, much larger than anything else, and a lot of it has been shredded by the dragon, or frozen and broken from the impact and you, cutting it apart with its axe. For the most part, all you're able to find off of its body are approximately 120 gold pieces, which isn't bad. Giants don't really carry a lot of money on them, usually what they carry on them is just trophies from battles they fought previously. At least, these ones here. What did you roll for perception?
Taliesin: 16.
Felicia: 18.
Sam: 11.
Mary: 13.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: So as you guys are looking around, the cavern seems to be fairly barren. You, however, Vex, as you walk to the back of the cavern, you see there are other pieces of partially eaten frozen bodies. And you, using a little bit of torchlight you can pull out, and glancing underneath, you see a little bit of shining, more of a cluster of shining about seven or eight inches beneath the ice surface. And you look down and you can see, there appears to be quite a hoard of something frozen beneath the surface of this cavern.
Felicia: Oh I can help! (blasting sounds) I throw a Fire Bolt.
Matt: (laughs) You start carving, you're like, (yelps). Dodge out of the way just in time as firebolts begin blasting the ice.
Felicia: 14. 14 points of damage.
Matt: (boom boom) A large chunk of the ice is blasted out from the Fire Bolt, and you catch your breath for a second. It's not enough to get all the way down, but it does manage to blast away a large portion of the ice.
Laura: I still have like two points of health, FYI.
Felicia: Oh! I'm sorry! You do look so lovely, though.
Matt: And so between the two of you guys, you take a dagger, you take your staff and you begin jamming into the ice. You manage to break it apart, and you do find beneath there, frozen, quite a hoard. You find over the next hour or so, 4,244 gold pieces--
Travis: Whoa!
Taliesin: Whoa!
Laura: How much?
Matt: 4,244 gold pieces. A cluster of gems worth around 850 gold. A singular diamond. It's about that large. It's actually a little bit smaller than the other one you have, but it's worth anywhere in the neighborhood of 1,200 gold pieces. You also manage to find a pair of leather gloves with almost gold trim around each one of the joints. You find what looks like a small leather cap that you pull over the head, that a peasant would wear, and what looks to be one glass vial containing an indeterminate liquid.
Laura: What is the color of the liquid?
Matt: From what you can look at the color, it's like a purplish-blue.
Mary: Can anybody do a perception check on magical liquid?
Travis: I would like to perception check the leather hat.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Can anybody do an arcana check on the leather hat?
Matt: Oh. Do you have Detect Magic?
Travis: 16!
Matt: Or Identify spell?
Felicia: No. I thought about them.
Matt: Okay. Make an arcana check. Well, you guys have a brief rest here; it should be fine, actually. Okay. Looking at it, this is a very fancy leather hat.
Travis: It's a fancy leather hat. It's mine. Dibs!
Taliesin: I'm curious about the gloves, myself.
Matt: You take some time with each one of these items that you pull out from the ice, and each one emanates a magical aura from them. You take the gloves first and you look at them, and you eventually come to realize, oh, you've heard about this, you read about this in your books. These are Gloves of Missile Snaring. They're gloves that when worn, you have an opportunity to possibly snatch a missile out of the air. These gloves seem to almost meld into your hands when you don them. When a ranged weapon attack hits you while you're wearing them, you can use your reaction to reduce the damage by a certain amount, provided you have a free hand. If you reduce the damage to zero, you can catch the missile, midair, (whoosh) stop it from hitting you.
Taliesin: That might be good for you, though.
Laura: For anybody with ranged, probably.
Matt: Anybody who's hit by ranged.
Taliesin: I have a two-handed ranged weapon, though, which you do not.
Matt: Looking at the hat itself, while not a very impressive hat, the magical energy on it does give you the idea that it is used as an illusion-based magic. It is a Hat of Disguise. While wearing this hat you can use an action to cast the Disguise Self spell at will. It ends if the hat is removed.
Sam: May I have that one, please?
Taliesin: No, Scanlan.
Travis: What? He can already disappear.
Felicia: You'll abuse it. You've already abused that privilege already.
Sam: I'm sorry. By the way, your lips taste like bubblegum.
Matt: The potion is a Potion of Climbing. You can actually climb your walking speed for one hour.
Mary: Like Spider Climb?
Felicia: Spider Pig.
Mary: What's it called?
Matt: Climbing or scaling cliffs, you can go at the speed-- normally, you're very slow when you climb. You can just parkour up super fast. While this is happening, because you rolled a 20, you look over at the corpses that are frozen on the ground. You see one of the corpses is wielding a sword, and another one of the corpses appears to have a shattered bow in one hand. You go over and see the sword itself is not affected by the ice. It actually seems to be resisting the ice. You (cracking) break it out of the hand. The person who's holding the bow, currently, the upper torso is bitten off and shattered. Part of the body is ruined. The bow is broken and destroyed, but there is a quiver on its back. Within the quiver, you see most of the arrows are frozen solid within the quiver, but there is one that seems unaffected by the ice.
Laura: Can I tell what it is?
Matt: You pull out the arrow. It appears to be a deep forest green, and the actual shaft of the arrow has a texture to it, almost a rough metallic texture.
Sam: Take it!
Mary: Take it!
Travis: Take it!
Laura: I'm taking it! Are you kidding me?
Matt: If you wish to bring those over to Lyra. Lyra, make an arcana check.
Felicia: This is a very interesting arrow. I haven't seen one of these like this. Oh, wait, maybe I have. 27.
Matt: Good to know. You take the time with it. You immediately recognize, there is a similar enchantment on both of these weapons, and whoever came in here earlier had the intent of slaying this dragon and failed to do so. What you find is a Dragon-Slayer Longsword. Which is a plus-one weapon, normally, but against dragons or people of the dragon subtype, it deals an additional 3d6 damage with every hit.
Felicia: It's too bad it didn't work for them.
Matt: And an Arrow of Dragon-Slaying. It's a singular arrow, a one-use arrow, but if it hits a dragon of the dragon race, type, or group, it has to make a constitution saving throw or take an additional 6d10 piercing damage. It's a one-use, "fuck you, dragon" arrow.
Sam: 6d10?
Felicia: That's very pleasant.
Laura: Yeah, right? What is the saving throw?
Sam: You'll see. You're going to get the paper.
Matt: So at this point, you guys have taken probably a good hour and a half or so in this cavern. You start seeing water drip.
Laura: Oh, we should get out.
Matt: It's beginning to thaw in the absence of Rimefang.
Mary: Well, what's good is, I believe we're within the three days of the contract, yes?
Matt: Possibly.
Felicia: Well, we got the contract. We completed it within three days. Now, we have to get back.
Mary: Yes, we've killed it, so let's go home.
Matt: Percy, you go and you pull out the contract real fast to inspect it, and you can see that the arcane sigils that were built into it are faded, and where it looks like each piece of the dragon that you harvested correctly, has seemingly had a strange, glimmering gold shimmer from the actual text on the contract.
Laura: Lyra, they're going to love you.
Felicia: It's so exciting. I can't wait to go to the mess hall and tell everybody, many times, over and over, how this happened together. And you guys, this has been an amazing journey. Thank you.
Mary: I would like to take just one gold coin right at the base of the head of what was formerly Rimefang for myself. I'll put it in a necklace when we all go back to town.
Matt: All right. You take that one gold piece, pocket it. Take a moment to remember your final death blow against the dragon. You guys trek back through the caverns you arose, back through the ruined frost giant village, back into the Vesper Timberland, find where your horses were currently tied up, make your way back towards the city of Vasselheim. About a day and a half's worth of travel later, you notice that the blizzard that encompassed the six-mile radius of this mountain range has faded into a soft fog, and the actual weather in this area seems to have been connected to the presence of the dragon and is slowly dissipating. You eventually take yourself to the base of Vasselheim's main wall. You shout at the top of the wall, and noticing the group arriving, they let the doors open. You can see the giant, dragon-headed ballistae that line the city walls are armed and ready, and upon approval, they move them away. You enter the city, make your way through the Braving Grounds to the Quadroads to the outside of the Slayer's Take guildhall. As you enter the main room, you see Mertin is standing there. Looks like he's playing a game of solitaire with a deck of cards. He looks up. "Well, I'll be damned. Are you serious? You killed him?"
Felicia: Mertin, we did it.
Matt: "Show me your contract. Show me this contract."
Felicia: I don't know why you'd doubt us. Really, it's right here.
Matt: "Well done." And he puts his hand out to shake your hand.
Felicia: Oh my gosh. I start crying. This is the most proud moment of my life, Mertin. I've admired you for so long and the fact (cries) thank you. And then I just hug him.
Matt: Okay. He hugs you. "I appreciate it very much. You lost me 200 gold pieces, but well done. You've proven to be more than I expected. Let me get the Huntmistress. She will be very happy to see that you've arrived. Aye, my wife. Yes." And he gets up and leaves. A few moments later, the headmaster Vanessa Cyndrial comes in, her tiefling self with her horns curled behind her head. Walks in with this smooth glare. "I must say. Some of these contracts we put out as a test of your power and will, and to be perfectly honest, I was pulling for you." She puts out her hand and her husband takes a pouch of coin and puts it in her hand. She takes it and puts it on the side of her belt. "I'm impressed by all of you, and by this token, and by the completed contract. First off, you have definitely proven your worth to the Slayer's Take."
Felicia: Oh my god, that is so sweet, Vanessa.
Matt: "Keep the emotions in check. We have to put up a face here. No one wants to see a member of the guild cry. Now, for the rest of you, I would like to humbly ask if you wish to join the Slayer's Take guild."
Sam: Yeah, sure, that'll work. The bear, too?
Matt: "The bear, as well. Best not show him the back room. We have a few trophies back there that might freak him out."
Travis: Do we get to work with another leader next time?
Sam: What? Because if the answer is yes, we refuse. This is our leader from now on.
Felicia: Thank you so much.
Matt: "You are able to choose what your group is at any time. Whatever the contract requires."
Felicia: I really appreciate it, but given the kiss that we had, I realized why Aldor doesn't love me is that I don't have enough experience. Sexually. So I'm going to stay in town to spread my wings in that area. And then he'll love me. Won't he, Vanessa?
Matt: Vanessa goes, "Lyra, I would recommend this course of action to not be taken. I would think that would reflect poorly-- I mean, your personal time is your own, but nevertheless, my dear, this is a very pious house--"
Sam: I think this is a great idea.
Felicia: Oh, no. Not you. You're such a friend to me. I can't ruin that.
Sam: You're right.
Matt: Vanessa walks up and puts her hand on your shoulder and goes, "We're going to have a talk, woman to woman."
Felicia: (whispers) Oh my god, you guys, I'm in!
Mary: Be straight with her, will you? Please.
Matt: "I'm going to make sure she doesn't embarrass the rest of us. So with the contract completed, provide what you've harvested from your quarry, and payment will be delivered."
Laura: I put the bag down that's got all the stuff in it. And then we take out a couple from the white dragon, and put out the other stuff. And we've got this giant heart right here.
Matt: The heart, which Grog has been carrying on his back as you guys travel. (impact sound) It hits the table and the wood cracks a little bit beneath it from the impact. And you can see, the ice is starting to melt a bit on the exterior.
Laura: Careful, it needs to be preserved.
Matt: She gives a nod. "Very well. Mertin, please, provide these for transport to the contract client."
Mary: Can we ask who actually contracted it?
Matt: "It's written on the contract itself."
Mary: Oh, that's right. I'm so sorry.
Matt: Percy has the contract, currently.
Taliesin: I do. Ozwyn Grud?
Travis: Grundle?
Felicia: Alchemist Ozwyn Grud.
Matt: Make a history check, by the way.
Taliesin: May I, as well?
Felicia: 21.
Taliesin: 25.
Travis: Oh, a history check? Four. He's a person.
Mary: I had four, as well. We are so getting shots later. Like, now.
Laura: Nine.
Matt: All right. The two of you immediately go, "Huh," and it hits you: you've heard the name before. You've heard the name and you're trying to figure out where it is. You pick it up and say, "He's a member of the Arcana Pansophical." It's a really exclusive group of archmages across the entire globe that essentially work together to keep the peace on a global scale. Of which, you know that Arcanist Allura Vysoren is a member of the Arcana Pansophical.
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Matt: This is another member of that team, who ordered this.
Taliesin: This is most likely going to good use, at the very least.
Sam: So do we collect our money?
Matt: "Indeed. What is the total on that contract, if you don't mind repeating?"
Taliesin: I was just working that out.
Laura: Lots of gold.
Taliesin: Lots of gold. It's 1,800 for the dragon eyes, 1,200 for the dragon tongue. 3,500 for the heart. 1,500 for the claws, and then how much for the dragon teeth?
Laura: Per dragon's tooth? Or for all six dragon teeth?
Taliesin: For all 20 dragon teeth.
Matt: Yeah. Essentially, considering the dragon teeth that you had already stored, those are used in this transaction, as well as the claws. So you no longer have dragon's teeth and dragon claws stored in your bag. However, you've fulfilled the contract and get full payment for those.
Travis: We have 12 teeth left.
Sam: So it's 9,000 total?
Taliesin: 9,000 total.
Matt: "9,000 gold pieces." She reaches beneath, pulls out a small chest. You see her do something beneath the table you don't recognize, and all of a sudden you hear a clicking sound and she pulls up three large sacks of gold (heavy impacts) on the table. "Divide as you see fit. On top of this, as you have now been accepted to this, when your other team members arrive, which should be any moment now, in the next day or so, you'll be inducted, you'll be absolved of your breach of the laws of Vasselheim, and you will also acquire a small payment in conjunction with the hydra contract. So we will discuss this as soon as your friends arrive. Until then, feel free to rest, divide the gold, and be on your way."
Laura: That's 1,500 each.
Sam: Thank you.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Felicia: Oh, I don't need any. (laughs)
Laura: What about you, Zahra?
Mary: Oh, I need. I'll take, definitely. Thank you.
Matt: "You do not need your money? Well, that will go back to the guild, thank you."
Travis: No, she misspoke.
Mary: She misspoke. I'm so sorry. She completely misspoke.
Matt: (chuckles) "Very well." Tosses the coins.
Laura: 1,800 each.
Matt: "Well done. Congratulations, and I look forward to a very fruitful and profitable future together here at the Slayer's Take."
Travis: Aye. Scanlan, should we go and make sure that your wounds are completely healed?
Laura: Can we insight check Vanessa really fast?
Matt: You may. What are you trying to gather?
Laura: Just to see what kind of person she is.
Matt: All right, go for an insight check.
Laura: 24.
Matt: Okay. You know you have a very strong sense of being able to read a person, and yet she is still an enigma to you. She seems earnest. She seems definitely a shrewd businesswoman, and there's a reason this guild has been successful for as long as she's been at the helm of it. But as far as reading her intent? She seems very guarded and hard to read. You're unable to really catch a bead on her.
Felicia: Vanessa, I want to thank you for trusting me with this very difficult task. I know that you sent some other people after this dragon, and your confidence in our abilities over theirs, who were defeated? It's just fantastic. I mean, what were you thinking?
Travis: What were you thinking?
Taliesin: What were you thinking, really?
Matt: "Well, to be perfectly honest, this dragon had been a thorn in our side, with previous contracts failed on its side, and you all seemed so confident in your skills. I figured it would be a good excuse for you to either flee from this thing and come back with your tail between your legs, or be foolish and get yourself killed, in which case, you're not a problem of ours anymore and everything's fine. Or, best case scenario, what you've shown to me today."
Laura: Which is that we're amazing.
Travis: Vox Machina does not flee.
Mary: Never. Although I'm not a part of it.
Sam: We'll make you an honorary member.
Matt: "Anyway, I have business to attend to. Enjoy your night. Celebrate. And return here when you wish to see your friends hopefully return as successful as you were."
Sam: Thank you.
Mary: Thank you.
Travis: We are sure they will.
Matt: "Mertin!" "Yes, I know, my dear. I'm taking it." And he takes the heart and (grunts) lifts it over his back and the halfling, as thick as he is, (grunts) is bringing it to the back room. She turns around, gathers the rest of the materials into a sack, and exits the room. And with that, we will conclude tonight's session. Well done!
Sam: We did it!
Mary: We survived!
Laura: Good job, Mary!
Matt: By the way, these are your magical items. You want to go ahead and take those?
Sam: I have to split.
Taliesin: Yes, you're moving.
Felicia: Tonight?
Taliesin: Tomorrow.
Felicia: Oh my goodness.
Matt: First off, guys, a big round of applause and appreciation for our guests. Mary, Felicia. You guys were fantastic.
Taliesin: Guest dragon kill.
Felicia: That was very fun. Thank you for letting me guest and be on the Twitch channel. You guys are a joy to have. I'm so proud to be part of the Geek and Sundry family.
Mary: I would like to say thank you so much to the community, to the Critters out there. I've never felt so much love overnight and through this last week. You inspired me today, and all of us, so thank you so much.
Zac: Speaking of Critters, #CriticalRole is officially trending on Twitter right now on the front page. You guys should all keep that trend going and go tell us what you think about the show and your favorite moments from tonight with #CriticalRole, @GeekandSundry. A couple of other quick announcements. Thank you, Felicia, for coming out. She's about to leave for a month, right?
Felicia: I'm going on a book tour, so please, if you haven't, preorder my book. feliciadaybook.com. I'm going to 12 cities, then DragonCon. I'm pretty excited about it. I'm going all over. I'm sorry, Midwest. It'll be fun.
Zac: Speaking of her book, guys, we are 60 subscribers away, roughly, from doing another signed book giveaway. Subs are what keep this channel alive. We wouldn't be able to bring you this content without subscribers, so let's try to get that 60 before we're done reading all our donations and prizes and everything else. But actually, I think we're going to play that video of Felicia one more time really quick to support her book tour.
Felicia: That's very sweet.
Zac: We'll be right back, really quick, with our donations and everything.
Matt: Yes. [end captions]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, and welcome this evening to Critical Role, everyone. A show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons and have a good time. Guess we can go ahead and-- we forgot to do the format this time and start with the intro. We trying to do that going forward because it makes more sense. But for now, let's go ahead and jump to the intro and we'll be right back to describe what we have going on. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. So first and foremost, we got a couple quick announcements to get into for this week. For every 100 subs we get to the channel this evening we'll be doing giveaways. The giveaways this week will include a signed photo of the cast of Critical Role, as well as, for the first time offering, a large print poster of one of the classic moments within our campaign drawn by our illustrious Kit Buss, our official artist for Critical Role. I think Zac should be showing you that photo that we'll be giving away, a really nice, high-quality print of that signed by the cast. And we'll send that out to whoever wins the wonderful prize for the chat room. I think we're 50 away from our first giveaway. So, you got to get that climbing so we can give that out shortly. Also, as we've previously, the past two weeks, had some great guests joining our first half of the Vox Machina group on their adventure, this week we have two new guests joining us for this and next week. If I can have a big, warm welcome to our players this week: Wil Wheaton and Will Friedle. Thank you guys so much for joining us. Excited to have you.
Marisha: So awesome.
Will: Slightly nervous.
Wil: You're going to be great, don't worry about it. I want to apologize in advance to Liam for having to share a table with me. I'm sorry for what's going to happen to your dice on account of how close we are to each other. I hope you're not too attached to anything with your character at all. (laughter)
Wil: I know. I'm just telling you, if there's dice you really love, you might want to put them away.
Liam: I'll just kiester this one.
Matt: That's the most comfortable way to do that. Well, awesome guys. Thank you so much for joining us in this. Before we jump in, let's see if we have any announcements that anyone wants to make, anything coming up, anything you want to talk about. I'll start. I'll say that as of flying out this evening, I should say, I have a flight at 12:15 from LAX. I'll be flying out to Columbus, Ohio for Matsuricon this weekend. So, any of you guys out there in the Ohio area want to come and visit me for the weekend, I'll be doing signings, panels, and general hanging out with fans and stuff. So if you're in the vicinity, come say hi. That's my announcement. Anyone else have anything they want to mention?
Orion: Yeah. I recently started my own Twitch stream. So you can follow me and watch. I play a lot of video games, guys. It's horrible addiction that's amazing. But it's @orionacaba on Twitch.
Matt: You keep streaming Thursdays at 7 00, which I think is really counterproductive.
Orion: It's weird.
Wil: When you've mastered being in two places at once, it's silly not to take advantage of it.
Orion: I am actually hosting Geek and Sundry on my channel right now.
Matt: Oh, look at you.
Liam: Are you simultaneously brewing at home right now?
Wil: I am. And I am also running this game in an alternate universe.
Liam: Oh. Wow.
Wil: It's pretty great. Yeah. And Matt rolls so bad in that game. It's really great. I am having dinner with my wife tomorrow so I'm looking forward to that. We're probably going to put a whole chicken in the smoker in the afternoon and then I think we're going to play some games. I'm introducing her to a game that I got at Gen Con called Lanterns.
Marisha: Lanterns?
Wil: Yeah, really fun Dom Lux game. Really like it a lot.
Marisha: We'll have to check that out.
Will: I, after four lovely years, popped the question last week.
Matt: Yes, you did.
Will: And I am engaged to be married. Yes. (cheering)
Will: Thank you very much.
Matt: I would say Susan's a very lucky girl, but really, it's the other way around.
Will: No, I'm the lucky one. I lucked out. I really was the one who lucked out.
Liam: Does she know or is this the proposal?
Will: I was going to propose like this, but we live in the woods and we don't get this show there. We have no internet whatsoever. No, she knows. She knows. She stupidly said yes, so we'll see what happens next.
Wil: If you need an entree into the Society of Men Who Married Way Above Their Stations, I can provide you an introduction.
Will: Thank you. (laughs) That's awesome. Yes, that is absolutely what happened here, so I will need that.
Wil: Yeah, they're members-only jackets.
Marisha: Members-only jackets.
Wil: The sleeves are little too short on all of the jackets, so we remember.
Will: That's perfect. I like that.
Matt: A lot of suede.
Will: Yeah. (laughter)
Wil: Yeah. (laughter)
Wil: And a nylon hood zipped into the neck, for some reason.
Matt: Which no one ever uses, and you forget it's there until you're like, "What's that? Oh, right." Congratulations.
Will: Thank you. You are the first to know that that's happened.
Matt: There you go. Exclusive. Critical Role exclusive. Well, fantastic. Let's go ahead and jump into where we left off.
Wil: I thought I just heard you say you need a pencil.
Orion: Yeah, I do.
Will: That's what happens when you're in multiple places at once. The realities start blending.
Will: I'll share, if you'd like.
Orion: Thank you.
Matt: Anyone else need a pencil? Everyone good?
Will: That was a good throw and catch.
Wil: I have a mechanical pencil that looks like a pencil pencil.
Will: I think I have the same kind of pencil.
Wil: Yeah, it's nice.
Marisha: We do the hand-eye coordination thing.
Matt: All righty, guys. As it currently stands, Vox Machina throughout its ventures found itself in the city of Vasselheim, as of late. They came to seal away the Horn of Orcus they had tore from the head of the beholder K'Varn deep in the Underdark. Once they had completed this journey, they spent some time in the city trying to figure out what can be done there, preparation for possibly Keyleth making a venture out to one of her Ashari tribes. During which, Grog entered a fight ring and lost. And the party decided to go ahead and--
Marisha: Never forget.
Matt: I have a feeling Kern and Grog are going to have a round two in the near future, depending on how Grog's feeling about that. Then the party saw that there was some sort of hydra-like being that had been harrying the walls of the outskirts of the city of Vasselheim. Being the adventurers they are, they took it upon themselves to leap out into the jungles and the forests of the Vesper Timberland. Found and hunted down this hydra, fought it, and upon slaying it, discovered there was another group also hunting this hydra. An actually sanctioned group. And that hunting this hydra is considered illegal in Vasselheim unless you had actually been contracted to do so. So in breaking the laws of Vasselheim, they could have been tried for it, but instead chose to return to the city with this group of hunters and be brought before their guildmaster, the Huntmaster known as Huntmaster Vanessa Cyndrial. Basically, they were given the choice: they could go to trial or they could undergo their own personal trial to join the guild, the Slayer's Take, which is essentially a guild that takes on contracts to hunt various requested creatures down, harvest elements of their physical bodies to then be sold or returned to these individuals and be paid for it. If they manage to complete these trials, they will be absolved of breaking the law because they will now be within the confines of it and will be members of the guild. So choosing that, they were then also notified that they would be splitting up into two different groups, much to the chagrin of Vex and Vax, our twins.
Will: Split apart.
Liam: Separation anxiety is a real thing.
Matt: So this group, the second adventuring group, has gathered itself back to the Bellows' Respite inn. Vax, you were asked to go the bar, to join your sister, Vex, for a shot of the hardest liquor they had available to deal with the coming separation. You shared a brief breakfast, shared your bitter, spiteful, alcoholic imbibement, and then went your separate ways. The first group went initially, and it's been about an hour or so of you guys waiting in the tavern for them to, as far as you know, take care of their business before you were to go to the guild yourselves. So, we have Tiberius, Keyleth, and Vax all sitting around the Bellows' Respite tavern lamenting what's going to come next.
Orion: Oh, cheer up, Vax. She'll be back soon. I've never seen you quite so down.
Marisha: I've been separated from my parents for a really long time. You get used to it. It's not too bad.
Liam: It took you years to do that. I'm two minutes in, so I'll grieve a little bit longer.
Marisha: Don't say the word grieve. That's strong.
Orion: Yes, it's implying that someone has died. And no one has. So, you know.
Marisha: It's only a few days. It'll be good. Separation makes the heart grow fonder and all that stuff.
Liam: It's fine. I just have a low tolerance for bullshit, and I'd like to get past this little piece of shit that we're being made to swallow.
Orion: I agree. Stormwinds should not be meddling around with these peasants. Are we in a tavern?
Matt: You are currently in the Bellows' Respite Tavern.
Orion: Barkeep, bring me your finest ale for my friend here and for the lady. I'll take a water.
Matt: The relatively jovial, ginger-bearded, rotund human gentleman who runs the establishment comes over to you. Looks like himself is a little bleary-eyed and hasn't quite adjusted to the morning light itself. "Oh okay. Certainly, I'll go ahead and retrieve that for you. It's three? Three is what I'm looking at?"
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: Right now, I'd say it's roughly 9 00 to 10:00 in the morning.
Marisha: Oh sure. Let's start early. Why not?
Orion: And I flip him a couple of gold coins.
Matt: He tries to catch it, fumbles. Goes and pick it up.
Marisha: Don't throw. That's rude.
Matt: Five minutes go by. Your food and drink are brought to your table, and you continue to lament about the coming time. Is there anything else you guys wish to take care of before you make your way to the Slayer's Take Guildhall?
Marisha: Well, since we're getting separated, Grog is taking the Bag of Holding.
Orion: I have one; don't forget that.
Marisha: Right, but we had a lot of stuff in that Bag of Holding. I kept most of the stuff that I needed on me, but how many healing potions do we have?
Liam: Not a lot. That's what I'm concerned about. We lost our meat shield and we don't have Pike. So I think we probably need to go and get some potions.
Marisha: I can go ahead and brush up on healing spells, as well. Make sure I come a little bit more well-equipped, just in case.
Orion: I'm good on potions, but we should restock our supply.
Liam: How many have you got?
Orion: I have, let me see here, three potions of greater healing, and three regular potions of healing.
Liam: Can I have one?
Orion: I suppose. If we're just going to buy more, it doesn't matter. But just in case something happens along the way.
Liam: Thank you.
Marisha: I only have one greater healing potion right now.
Orion: Yes, so we'll go buy more. And then we'll see what else they have. I would like to see if we can procure a couple of items, like a couple of empty vials. I've used a lot of mine. Maybe find some acid or whatnot at these item shops. So let's look around and get the stuff.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Marisha: Apparently we have the flying carpet?
Liam: Do we have the flying carpet?
Matt: The flying carpet is, for the most part, kept wrapped up in Grog's Bag of Holding.
Marisha: Because I think Grog was checking out. He's breaking up a little bit. But I feel like he just told me that we took the flying carpet.
Liam: (imitating Grog) We took the flying carpet. Sorry.
Marisha: He's very far away, but I feel it's reaching its limits.
Liam: (imitating Grog) I would like to bogart the flying carpet and everything in the fucking Bag.
Marisha: He apparently left us with the flying carpet?
Orion: He's saying he left with the flying carpet, Keyleth. He left with it. We don't have it.
Marisha: He said, remember, you took the flying carpet. To break RP for a second.
Liam: (imitating Grog) Am I texting you that right now?
Marisha: Yeah. I can't. You're cutting out. You're cutting out, Grog.
Orion: I held it for a time, but I only have my Wheel of Mending in mine, as far as I know. Hold on, let me check.
Matt: As you reach into your Bag of Holding--
Orion: I'm thinking really hard.
Matt: Through the luck of the draw, it seems to be that the last resting place of the flying carpet was within your Bag of Holding.
Orion: Hold on. Oh here it is.
Marisha: Oh, look at that. We have it.
Orion: Shut my mouth. I guess I was wrong.
Marisha: Found it. We're good.
Liam: All right, let's go to the store. I don't really want to drag this out any longer than we have to. And I walk out the door and start going.
Matt: Okay. What did you roll for your investigation check, Tiberius?
Orion: 16.
Matt: 16? Okay. As you guys take the next 20 minutes wandering the Quad Roads district of Vasselheim, asking around. A lot of the shops here offer general supplies. There are a few that are focused on the mining supplies as there is a large market mining cobalt out of the center of the mountain the city is built around. You find places that provide clockwork for large grandfather clocks that are starting to be distributed in this part of the city. You also find that there is a large bazaar-type market in the center of the Quad Roads that you passed by when you first came to town. Amongst many of these barkers, you do catch one small tent, Tiberius, that catches your eye because it resembles the same purple color as one tent you guys entered in Emon about a year or so ago, in which you encountered a fortune teller.
Marisha: Oh shit! It's the Witch's Fortune. What are you looking for?
Liam: Look at those fingers fly.
Orion: I approach.
Marisha: Do you know her name? Remember her name? I can probably find it. It would take a minute of digging, through. Hang on. I've got to go back to my old notes. I've got to go back to my old D&D notes. Keep doing stuff.
Matt: So as you enter the tent, you pull the curtains apart. There is one other individual who seems to be just perusing the interior. But the smell that hits you immediately is very heavy sage, ceremonial burning of various spices, giving the area a mystical scent. The light itself is very low, just a few flickering candles and a hooded lantern in the far corner directed outward give a bit of ambiance to the interior of the tent. The series of small ropes and cords made of hemp and silk carry trinkets and bones and various enchanted accoutrements. And in the far back corner, amongst the table there is indeed a very beautiful elven woman dressed in a fine silk gown with a metallic headband, her dirty blonde hair behind her ears. And she looks to be in the middle of shuffling a deck of tarot cards. As you enter, she looks up and gives you a look of surprise and then a curious look of remembrance.
Marisha: Am I with him?
Matt: You're behind him and outside of the tent. He entered. Did you guys want to go in with him?
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: All right, you enter and are greeted by this same atmosphere.
Marisha: (gasps) Trista!
Matt: She gives you a cross look.
Marisha: It's been so long! Fancy meeting you here.
Matt: She puts her finger up for a second, turns over to the noblewoman who is currently perusing this small shelf of books and tomes. "I'm terribly sorry. Would you mind just giving us a moment? I've some personal business to attend to." The noble woman is like, "Oh, fine. I didn't want to purchase anything anyway." And stomps out of the tent. The door closes behind her. At which point the elven woman immediately turns. "Trista's my sister."
Marisha: You're Forsythia?
Matt: "It's good to see you again, young half-elf." You can see now with the current atmosphere, the light seems to dim the interior of the tent. And the elven woman's visage shimmers and then fades and there sitting behind the table you see a large, hunched forward, gnarled humanoid. This woman, who is definitively referred to as a hag, is currently lording over the table, long, twisted fingers holding that same deck of cards. Looking up at you with a crooked nose and pointed chin. There's a grin on her face. And looks to you and, "It has been some time, dragonborn. I can still see there is a fraction of you still missing."
Orion: Yes. I still don't know what that means. But I am actually happy to see you, milady.
Matt: Still shuffling her cards. "So was there anything I can help you with?"
Orion: Yes. Yes, there is. You mentioned before, when I asked you last, of the Boros Ring. You revealed that it was in the Fey, the Wild Fen. I am also in search of the item that I did not get to ask you about called the Pale Stone. I wish to know the location of that, as well.
Matt: She gives you a keen look. "I think for the time being, one quest is enough. Return when you've procured this ring you so graciously seek, then perhaps the rest of this will be revealed. Grow greedy with fate and I fear the timeline will swallow you up, young dragonblood." She pulls the cards down and just starts going over her own reading. Each card she slams down with a heavy thud. The room seems to almost cloud, the air growing thicker. And there's a hint of frustration that she's currently being bothered and strung out. After she takes a few moments to herself, she looks back you. "Is there business you seek, aside from asking me these questions? Perhaps a bauble or two. I make fine baubles."
Orion: Since you're not in the business of information, then we are in the business of procuring some specific items. Potions. I'm looking for a few empty glass vials. Perhaps some acid, if you have it.
Matt: She stands up. And as she stands up, you can now see the hag, which hunched forward, sits at a solid five feet tall. At full height, even with the hunch, she's now cresting the top of the tent at seven feet. Long, stringy, gray-black hair framing the shoulders. The same nice goldish silk outfit the elf appearance was wearing is there. It looks much more world-tattered and matches the one currently wearing it. She reaches behind her, still staring you intently in the face, and grabs a small case off the wall. Sets it down before her. Pulls back the wooden lid and inside, you can see there are three small glass vials. "These are what I have to offer. Two of them will right your physical form, perhaps take care of some of those wounds someone as foolish and careless as you eventually deal with. The third one is caustic in its nature. Its application is up to you. They are sold as a set, though. 300 gold pieces. Take it or leave."
Orion: You don't have to be all nasty about it. I have the money. Here you go.
Matt: She reaches over and as you hold the small bag of coin out, her hand completely engulfs yours. The fingers wrap around, and for a second you feel a tug. And you are awkwardly pulled forward a few inches. You get closer to her face. The breath catches your nostrils, the scent of swamp water and old fish. It's a moment of intensity where you forget your surroundings for a brief moment. And it's just you and this entity. And you realize, she's far older than you ever gave her credit for. She pulls the bag of coin from your hand and withdraws. The light seems to return from the peripheral of your vision. Keyleth and Vax are there at your side. She reaches forward and pushes the box forward toward you on the table. "Be safe, and may fortune smile upon most of you."
Orion: Yes, I know something bad is going to happen. I show them the box. I take it and pick it up. This is all she had to offer. She's not taking questions.
Marisha: You're not taking any questions right now?
Matt: "Not today."
Marisha: Not today?
Matt: "As you know, my dealings with fate take a lot out of me. I'm not quite ready for another round of tellings. You see, this city, as most bits of civilization, are very eager to hear what the future has in store for them. So I'm a bit tapped out at the moment." And you can see a bit of dried blood around one of her nostrils. And if you recall last time, the process was very physically taxing on her. "Perhaps return in a week or so. And if I'm not here, I'm around."
Liam: Old one, are you still willing to trade today?
Matt: "Trade?"
Liam: I'm wondering if you have any poisons beyond the run-of-the-mill nightshades this afternoon or morning?
Matt: She stands up and reaches over, and there's a small alchemical glassware set up on the side. And you see it's cracked and old and it's been brutalized. And she pulls a very small vial of some dark, black, almost umbra-type liquid where you can't even see shine in the light. It absorbs all the light. She puts it forward. "This would be very unfortunate to find its way into the bloodstream of an enemy, yes?"
Liam: What do you want for it?
Matt: "A favor. Not now, but perhaps down the road."
Orion: She does that, Vax. A lot.
Liam: Why not?
Matt: She pushes it forward with her long, crooked fingernail, shoves the vial forward. It screeches across the top of the table. She withdraws her hand. "So it is done." At that moment, there's a very a cold shiver down the back of your neck that then fades. She just grins with this nasty, toothy grin. "Now, be on your way. I have cards to shuffle."
Liam: Yoink.
Marisha: It was so nice to see a familiar face in such a strange place. She's lovely.
Orion: Yes. Good day, madam.
Matt: As you step out, she raises her hand in front of her and her form once again shimmers and shifts down to that beautiful elven maiden that greeted you as you entered. The lights tend to blossom a little bit and you close the tent behind you.
Liam: As we're leaving, I say, that's a good look.
Matt: Gives a slight breathy chuckle that starts beautiful. (chuckle turns into a cackle)
Orion: What did we actually get?
Matt: You acquired two potions of greater healing, and a vial of caustic liquid. You are uncertain as to what its properties are.
Marisha: Caustic liquid.
Matt: You also don't quite know the properties of yours, but you gather, the assurance from a creature of this power, that she speaks in riddles, but not in untruths.
Orion: I'm going to give you another one of the greater potions. So mark that down.
Liam: Thank you. We're right in the middle of the bazaar. Do we want to take a quick jog around? I grab someone passing by and say, you, potions? Where? Here?
Matt: The person looks down at your arm, brushes it off, and the middle-aged gentleman goes, "Sir, you do realize that most of the potion trade is controlled by the clergy?"
Marisha: They're all like no magic and stuff here.
Liam: I did not know that. Thank you. Well, shit.
Marisha: Wait. Did he say that it was controlled by the clergy?
Orion: So we should go there.
Marisha: Hang on. Just because it is controlled by the clergy doesn't mean that it's legal. Doesn't mean that if we go knocking on their door requesting potions that they're going to take kindly to that. Kind of like getting your concealed deadly weapons license in certain places.
Liam: I grab another weirdo passing by and say, excuse me. There's probably a temple around here. Can you point us in the right direction?
Matt: The individual looks at you awkwardly and points over. And you can see just past the outskirts of this bazaar, there are a number of buildings that line the outer area of this central portion. You can see where he is pointing, there is a large cathedral made of almost, from this distance, a warbling, warped obsidian, and it is far more ominous and obelisk-like in appearance than the other temples. In a district of the city that you haven't been to yet. But it is the closest temple.
Wil: Warbling Obsidian is my Black Crowes cover band.
Liam: I'm getting itchy. Can we just go to the Take please?
Marisha: I turn and I lean into Tiberius and I say, he's going to be cranky the entire time we're on this field trip, isn't he?
Orion: Yes, and usually I'm the cranky one.
Marisha: I know.
Orion: So let's head to the temple. Right? Yes?
Marisha: I guess.
Orion: Can you turn into a horse?
Marisha: Yes, but that's a little forward, don't you think?
Orion: I'm just asking.
Liam: Are we going to the temple or the Take?
Orion: Oh, the Take? What would make you feel better?
Liam: Let's get on with it, shall we? Jesus, whoever that is.
Orion: That was that one carpenter we met in in Vasselheim.
Liam: Oh, he was sweet. He had some good herb.
Orion: Yes, he did. He sure knew how to-- it was dank.
Matt: "Dank," which is arcane terms for "thaumaturgical." Anyway. You make your way to the southern outskirts of this portion of the bazaar, which leads its way into the central building cluster portion of the Quad Roads district to the outside of the Slayer's Take Guildhall. You walk up to the main doorway which has the inscription in front. And pushing the door open, you enter into the main foyer area, where you see the same cast-iron chandeliers hanging from the ceiling, the dark wood rafters frame the entire internal area. And there sitting at the central desk is Mertin, the scarred-up halfling with the relatively joyful disposition. He looks up from his books. "Okay, it appears to me that we have the other half of this adventuring group to deal with. Let us hope that perhaps you have better luck than your previous friends in what has been chosen for you, eh?"
Liam: They already headed out?
Matt: "Yes, they left not more than an hour ago, I imagine."
Marisha: And what were they contracted with?
Matt: "Oh, nothing. They're going to kill a dragon. Would you like me to go get the mistress for you?"
Liam: Excuse me?
Matt: "I'll take that as a yes. I'll be right back." And he gets up from his table and wanders off.
Orion: They'll be fine. I'm sure of it. Scanlan makes good decisions all the time.
Matt: As you wait a few moments, eventually Mertin returns. But he seems, his head down, a little humbly, and gestures out with his hands. And you hear the familiar footsteps of the Huntmaster, Vanessa Cyndrial. Her tiefling appearance both very striking in her chiseled bone structure in her face, her dark leather armor itself creaking slightly with each footstep. And she has that very commanding yet welcoming appearance, which you know hides a very hard-to-read interior. She steps forward. "Well, are you ready to take on the other half of this mission? Your friends were eager. And they traveled with some of our finer warriors. Are you confident in your capabilities today?"
Orion: Listen, don't be smug with me. None of us what to be here or cooperate with this stupid event just to abide your laws.
Marisha: Tiberius, we could be on trial.
Orion: The answer is yes. Let's get on with it.
Matt: "You see, it is very simple. I like it, direct and to the point. I respect that."
Orion: Oh. Well, thank you.
Matt: "The angry, flowery part in the middle, not so much a fan of. All right. So," she reaches behind and pulls out what looks like a small, rolled-up piece of parchment. Looks at it for a second. "Well, you have one other hopeful for this guild that will be joining you for this, and a leader will be assigned to you on this excursion to keep an eye on you and make sure you stay within the rules and not go absconding to some other country and we have to hunt you down."
Liam: Fantastic.
Orion: Can we use the word liaison?
Matt: "A liaison, if you will. Mertin, would you get the other hopeful for this?" Mertin says, "Of course, my lady." He gets up, and walks over, and knocks on a door. As you hear the door knock on the opposite side of the room, opens it up. And the red, tousled hair, halfling. "Kashaw, your group has arrived."
Will: Well, it's about time. I'm sick of waiting. (sighs) He walks out and meets everybody.
Matt: As you guys look, the door opens, and a human male steps out into the light. If you wish to describe yourself.
Will: I am Kashaw Vesh, an acolyte. Here I am, waiting for you for so long now. Do I have to travel with them the entire time?
Matt: "For the remainder of this contract at least. But once you have joined the Guild, perhaps other groups will be assigned to you."
Marisha: I'm sorry. I'm sorry, were we late? We didn't mean to keep you waiting. Or do you mean like, you've been waiting for us for a long time in the destiny, "we're here and where have you been my whole life" kind of way?
Will: Is she always like this?
Orion: Yes, she is.
Liam: Not good at reading emotions.
Will: This is going to be fun. Yes. No, I meant you're late.
Marisha: Wait. Is that what people say about me?
Liam: I don't.
Marisha: We'll talk later.
Will: Who are you?
Liam: Vax'ildan.
Orion: I am Tiberius Stormwind.
Will: A dragonborn.
Liam: What's your thing? What do you do?
Will: What I do is not really important. What I want to get done, I think, is what matters. What I want to do is start this quest. Is that what you called it? Quest?
Matt: "It is a contract."
Will: A contract, a job. Can we just get out there, please, and do what we have to do?
Matt: "Very well."
Liam: I agree. Let's hurry it up, Merkin. Shall we?
Will: That wasn't your name, was it?
Matt: "It's Mertin. Mertin is the name. But it's okay."
Liam: I'm not from these parts. It's my accent. Sorry.
Matt: "I can hear accent from upbringing. It's Syngornian use. It's fine. Mertin. Never mind." By the way, the human that has walked out, you can see has shoulder-length brown hair, a leather cord that is tied around the center of the forehead. Eyes two different colors. One I believe is a light blue?
Will: It's a light blue. One is a bright yellow. And his right arm, all the way up from where you can see where it disappears below the armor is covered in one-inch cuts, with scars all the way up.
Orion: Ah, a religious man.
Will: Maybe.
Matt: Mertin goes over and knocks on a door, opens it up. This individual is easy to hear from a distance. The heavy footfalls and the grumbling echoes through the hallways before he even appears. Mertin leads you into the light of the main foyer area. "This will be the group of which you will be guiding on this. I appreciate you doing this for us. I know it's not really usually what you do. But here is your team for this contract."
Wil: I'm sorry, where is the team?
Matt: "This is your team." And Vanessa chuckles to herself. "I'm sorry. This is what you'll be dealing with today."
Marisha: Hi.
Orion: Hello, I'm Tiberius Stormwind.
Matt: "Now Thorbir, play nice."
Marisha: What was that?
Matt: "Thorbir. Thorbir, play nice."
Wil: So he's a dwarf. He's a really stout dwarf. He's got really a long, red beard that's singed off in the lower right corner. The bottom of the top part of his beard is braided and clamped off with all these ornate things. He's got these big, thick, ropey, white braids that come down on either side of his face and frame his face. And these have these really big Dwarven runes on them. Do any of you speak Dwarven?
Orion: Yes.
Marisha: No.
Will: Yes.
Wil: All right, so for those of you who speak Dwarven, this is a really offensive curse word in Dwarven. And this one is an even more offensive curse word in Dwarven. You don't say these in friendly company. He's got a scar that runs down across his face. And the eye that it runs through is black. And his other eye is blue. And you can see that he's got Dwarven script written in tattoos all the way down his right arm.
Matt: "So please, if you would not mind making sure that they see their contract to fruition, taking them on this as you will, showing them the ropes of the guild, and try not get them killed."
Wil: And for me?
Matt: "Well, you will be rewarded as per the contract. You will have done the guild a great favor, which you know favors can go a very long way in the guild."
Wil: I certainly do. You don't have to tell me about repaying favors.
Matt: "Fair enough. Well, perhaps now would be a good time for this jovial lot of adventurers to know what it is they are to hunt down."
Wil: Is it an actual group?
Matt: "Well, we'll see how well you can make it into one. Perhaps this is a test for you as well, fair dwarf."
Marisha: I think is going to be an excellent bonding experience.
Will: Seriously, the whole time she is like this?
Orion: Yes, she is. It grows on you, though.
Will: I'm sure it does. So does the plague.
Marisha: Everyone has such a problem with optimism.
Matt: She unravels it. Looks at it. "I think this will do well for what is required. We will bind this contract to you now. Feel free to take over. If you wouldn't mind reading, half-elf."
Marisha: You know, public speaking is not really my strong suit. Okay. Ordered and paid in advance by anonymous.
Orion: Oh, they're a fun group.
Marisha: This contract, binding in honor and the elements, sets upon the agreed members of the Slayer's Take Guildhall, and the task of locating and slaying the below-mentioned entity, and the recovery of the below-listed harvested anatomy items. And any anatomy items not recovered or not in functional condition will be deducted from the final payment and refunded to the client. Oh. This contract is good for three days and should the contract not be fulfilled within that time period, all payments are null and void, this contract is null and void, and membership of the Slayer's Take is revoked-- outside of the Huntmaster's willful forgiveness.
Liam: Skip to the punchline.
Marisha: The quarry has been approved for hunting by the Holy Paramours of the Crown of Erathis. The quarry of one rakshasa. What's a rakshasa?
Liam: Tiger man.
Marisha: Tiger man?
Liam: Essentially.
Will: How do you know that?
Liam: Storybooks in Syngorn.
Marisha: We need two rakshasa eyes, one rakshasa tongue, one rakshasa heart, two rakshasa claws, and two rakshasa canine teeth. So canine.
Orion: Would this be an arcana or this be a history check?
Matt: This would be more of an arcana check.
Orion: I'm going to do an arcana check. 18.
Matt: 18? Rakshasas were entities that originally stemmed from the realm of the Nine Hells. They are devils. They are deceptive, and usually embed themselves in elements of society where they can grasp and take power. They love having servitude beneath them, and they are notoriously difficult and slippery to find, let alone nail down and destroy. Appearance-wise, they look like a normal humanoid man, but have the face of a tiger, and the other curious element is both of their hands are reversed. That's as much as you can glean from your formal training and understanding.
Liam: Does this cat have a name?
Matt: "Why does it matter? All we know is we can confirm that there is one within the vicinity, or huntable at the very least. The rest is up to you to find."
Marisha: The quarry is where it's been last located? Oh, okay. Yeah, you double-check it. I might have missed something.
Will: Why can't we know who the client is?
Matt: "The client has decided they wish to remain anonymous for this contract."
Orion: This seems to be bothering you, Kashaw.
Will: Everything's been bothering me lately. She's not helping. Do you want to read this?
Orion: It's going to say the same thing. Which part?
Will: Give me this. How far to the quarry?
Matt: "Your quarry is the creature."
Will: You said it was in the vicinity. What are we talking "in the vicinity?" Are we talking a day's hike? We talking an hour from here?
Matt: "Meaning, we've been able to confirm that there is one that is within a huntable distance within the three days of the contract. However, part of this trial is to see just how good you are at finding and destroying such creatures, so that information is for you to find, unless you do not feel your skills are up to par for the Slayer's Take, in which case, you are more than welcome to go for the door, human."
Liam: And you have no further information? Are there any grumpkins you want us to find? Do you expect us to go out with no information at all to find a man with a tiger's head?
Matt: "Well, you seem like a well-traveled unit. You seem to have done well enough to find and destroy great things you spoke of as you walked into these halls. Prove to me that you are more than just sell-swords. Show to me that you have the intellect, that you have the skill sets, that you have the cleverness to find the creature that does not wish to be found."
Liam: Is this how things normally go around here?
Wil: Normally, I don't waste my time with the likes of you. Man with a tiger's head is going to stand out. No problem finding him. Let's stand here and talk about this forever, or let's head out and get this over with.
Orion: Well, dwarf, why don't you do your title and lead then? And I should warn you, you are walking with a Stormwind. You may not know my name, but I can assure you, I alone am an army, so we are well protected. So, lead us to find this tiger-man, please.
Wil: Dragonborn is a lot of talk.
Will: If he's an army, why not just send him out?
Marisha: That was probably the ballsiest thing you've ever said.
Wil: All right, Storm?
Orion: Wind. People call me Tibsy.
Wil: Let's see how good you are at following. And he heads out.
Liam: He's not very good. Oh, he's gone.
Matt: As the dwarf exits, and you guys follow. Outside of the Slayer's Take into the center of the main Quad Roads thoroughfare, on the outskirts of the bazaar to seek a rakshasa, wherever one may be found.
Marisha: I thought this was going to be a fun field trip.
Orion: Well, I mean "rakshasa" does sound fun. Rakshasa!
Marisha: It does. It is a tiger person, so maybe we can relate.
Will: I want to switch teams.
Orion: No, it gets better.
Liam: What's your name again? I'm sorry.
Will: I am Kashaw Vesh. Call me Brother Kash. Everyone else does.
Liam: Kash. Brother Kash, are you new to the Guild, as well?
Will: I'm not a member of the Guild yet. I had something happen with someone who did something and now I'm here. Why don't we leave it at that, for now?
Liam: That's how we got here.
Will: Apparently, I only have to be here for another three days, which will be good.
Liam: All right.
Wil: I'm impatient. Perception 20. Is there anything around that indicates where, which of these four directions is the best direction to go?
Matt: Knowing the city for the while that you've been here, you know there are places of open business that have a lot of traffic are also good places to ask for if anyone has seen anything that might match a certain description, or an individual that you are seeking, any strange behavior. And so you know that the center of the Quad Roads where that bazaar is, is a good place to start requesting information as you have currently none at your disposal.
Marisha: Just to get this clear, a rakshasa's not a beast?
Matt: It's like a man.
Will: It's a demon.
Orion: It's a demon.
Matt: It's a demon creature that looks like a man.
Marisha: But it's not a beast, by definition?
Matt: No.
Liam: I'm sorry. I'd like to make an insight check on the dwarf, not to see if he is lying, but he could be. Can I get a gut instinct into what his deal is?
Matt: Go ahead and make an insight check.
Liam: Three, but I'm going to use my Luck to try that again. 18 plus two is 20.
Matt: Would you like to go ahead and roll a 20?
Wil: Yeah, that's a two. All right. (laughter)
Liam: Just reinforce the myth, man.
Wil: That's one better than I usually roll. I'd say it's twice as good as I usually do.
Matt: Gruff exterior. There is definitely a toughened past to him. He seems driven. Not necessarily untrustworthy, per se, but definitely a man of little patience and currently does not seem to be too pleased with the fact that he's essentially babysitting, in his mind.
Liam: Is there a marshmallow center?
Matt: You may find out in due time. Yet that is too hard to read at this moment.
Will: If you're in the bazaar, do I have to be out of the city to cast Locate Creature?
Matt: You can cast that anywhere you want to. Your magic is divine. This is your city.
Liam: And that's not just a descriptor, either.
Will: Thank you. It's normally fabulous, but not in this city. So then how do I go about casting Locate Creature?
Matt: You can just tell me.
Will: I'd like to go ahead and cast Locate Creature.
Matt: All right, so as you guys are having this discussion, you're having this weird stare-off and considering where to go in the bazaar. You stop in the nearby alley two buildings down from where the Slayer's Take Guildhall is. And you begin just taking a small dagger from your side and carving a circle in the ground. Throw some runes down that are specific to your patron. Take a moment and concentrate on the description of this rakshasa. Looking at the specifics of the spell to make sure that I don't give you misinformation... Locate Creature. Beautiful.
Will: You guys have jazz hands.
Orion: Rakshasa.
Will: Rakshasa.
Matt: You focus your mind for a second, and your holy symbol begins to drift up from underneath your armor. You instinctively take and slap it down underneath, and then refocus your vision, your eyes closed. And you can see what looks like a pulsing energy, like a very dark flame. Something that itself, you can already smell the sulfur. You can smell the lineage, the devil lineage that this entity is. And there is indeed one not too terribly far from where you currently are. It's faint, which means that it is on the outskirts. And you know this lasts for a good thousand feet or so. But it does give you a northeastern direction. And the spell fades.
Marisha: Northeastern direction.
Will: We should go northeast. It is also unfortunately, or fortunately, depending on how you look at it, closer than we thought.
Liam: In the walls of the city?
Will: Not in the walls, but very close to them.
Marisha: Do we have any type of plan of attack? Does anyone know how to fight these things? Any earthly clue?
Will: Leader boy?
Marisha: Leader boy?
Wil: I'm sorry, are you talking to me?
Orion: Thorbir is what they meant to say.
Will: Listen to Stormfather over here.
Marisha: I take my social cues from other people. I'm sorry.
Wil: In my experience, there has not been a problem invented that can't be solved with an axe.
Orion: That's true. We've seen that.
Will: Wonderfully helpful. Thank you.
Wil: You're welcome.
Liam: Follow the axe.
Wil: Now what I want you to do is imagine an hourglass. You got that? Good picture of an hourglass in your heads? See all that sand draining out? Let's get a move on.
Orion: Okay. What am I doing with this sand?
Marisha: I agree with that. Are we supposed to do something with the sand?
Wil: Yeah, count it.
Marisha: Oh, that would take so long. Can we tag-team this?
Wil: She always like this?
Orion: Yes.
Will: Stormcloud's counting sand. I don't know what she's doing over here. Northeast. How about let's start walking that way and see what happens? Can we give that a shot?
Orion: I agree. You did the fancy spell.
Will: It's not as fancy as you might think.
Wil: I've pulled my axe out and I'm sort of holding it like a walking stick. And just very deliberately, very demonstratively walking ahead in that direction.
Matt: With each footfall, you know that what was once, probably hundreds of years ago, a nice cobblestone roadway in the center of the city has been slowly hit with mud, dirt, snow, sleet, and so each step is a slight moisture with each footfall.
Orion: I'm assuming there's no stables around.
Matt: Not immediately, those are usually to the very outside of the city.
Liam: Why are you jonesing for a horse?
Orion: So I don't get all dirty.
Matt: Thorbir, leading forward in the northeastern direction that was given by Brother Kash, eventually brings you around the side of the bazaar. And you can now see why it's called the Quad Roads, there are two main roads that meet right where the bazaar occurs and then they spread off into the other sections of the city. To the northeastern section, from your guys' perspective, the district begins to drift into another district that you have not previously visited. This district is, you've heard it mentioned before, known as the Duskmeadow. Now, previous sections you've been in have been worshipers of Bahamut, the Platinum Dragon. There was the Braving Grounds, which worships Kord, the god of strength and warfare and honor. The Quad Roads, which is under Erathis, the deity of civilization and invention. The Duskmeadow falls under the watchful eye of the Raven Queen, the goddess of death. That large obsidian-type structure that you were led to earlier is the temple that resides in the center of this district. And you've heard mention before of a few of the things that exist here. That being probably Raven's Crest, which is the main temple to the Raven Queen. This is also where the Amaranthine Oubliette is located, which is essentially the prison of the entire city of Vasselheim.
Marisha: The what?
Matt: The Amaranthine Oubliette.
Orion: Hammertime oubliette.
Marisha: Oh, there it is.
Matt: This is also where most of the dead of the city are interred into a series of catacombs that are built deep beneath this section of the city. Far enough away from the oubliette to the point where isn't crossover and is enough of an escape, because that apparently has happened in the past history of the city. As you begin pushing towards the edge of where the two districts meet, you can see that there is an area of the town that, for lack of better term, it's a more jovial than expected area. There are a series of stands put up along the side of the road. There's a lot of beggars sitting on the side of the street that are currently panhandling to those who walk by. There are a number of taverns. You can hear music coming from various establishments. And it seems almost the closer you get to the death-oriented district on the border of the Quad Roads, the more and more it pushes into a shadier Mardi Gras-type experience. So you make your way towards that dividing line there. What you would like to do?
Orion: What say you, Thorbir?
Wil: Let's ask around and see if anything has been a little out the ordinary, or maybe, in the ordinary.
Orion: Yes, I like that phrasing.
Will: Have to imagine anywhere this thing goes, there's going to be strange deaths associated with it. We might as well look there.
Orion: That's actually a good idea, as well.
Liam: And where we're walking, are there shops and stands, as well, or is it residential?
Matt: There are many that sell jewelry, many that sell very well-made clothing, some of them party attire, there are some that sell exotic fruits that have been imported in various states of ripeness.
Marisha: Is anyone selling any masks?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Passive or active?
Matt: That would be an active perception check as you're seeking it.
Marisha: 21.
Matt: 21. You do glance around and there is one cart that carries costume, party attire supplies. It doesn't seem to have too many customers right now, but they do have a couple of masks that are on display.
Marisha: Are there any masks that look like tiger masks?
Matt: Looking at it, there are none that are tiger-specific, no. They seem to be molded leather and some more impish, goblin-y in appearance.
Marisha: Is there someone working the stand?
Matt: There is, yes. You see a woman in her forties or so, thin, with a big toothy smile. Her hair is pulled back into tight bun. You can see there's little bit of her blondish hair turning to gray on the sides around her ears, Reed Richard-style.
Orion: Did you say this was the Bahamut part of town, too?
Matt: The Bahamut section is far away. That's another section of the city. You are now on the line between the Duskmeadow and the Quad Roads, so it's Erathis and the Raven Queen.
Liam: I'm pulling a mask off the wall. This is a beautiful piece. Do you make them yourself?
Matt: "I do. I do, I make them myself by hand, hence the price."
Liam: They are quite beautiful. We're travelers here. I've never seen a neighborhood like this. Is there a festival going on here, or is this pretty much the basic fare of the day here?
Matt: "This is the localized festival of the city. If you've been around Vasselheim long enough you've seen there is little interest in celebration depending on some places. But, at least on this line, some people can appreciate the fleetness that is life and grasp it by the roots and make it its own before it's snuffed out."
Liam: Here particularly, there seems to be electricity in the air almost. It's very bustling. This is the norm around here?
Matt: "Consistently. That's why I come and bring my business here. I wouldn't do very well up north, I'll tell you that. All them dragon types--" Looks to you. "No offense. All them silver dragon lovers have an issue with things as celebratory."
Liam: And I pull out ten gold, and I spread them on her desk.
Matt: "How many masks?"
Liam: Oh, none.
Marisha: Oh, I would like one.
Matt: "Take your pick."
Liam: I slide one coin away from the other nine, and then dragging my finger across those say, is there anything out of the ordinary these days?
Matt: Go ahead and make a persuasion roll.
Liam: 15.
Matt: 15? She gives you a look like she's trying to read you, looks about left and right. Glances at you and looks a little ugh. Glances at you and looks really taken aback, and then comes back to you with a escape of comfort.
Liam: Watching her, I pull out another five and spread them in front of the first nine.
Matt: "Well, I mean, some businesses here are a bit shady, I won't lie. And there are some long-standing businesses that have quarrels. Usually, they end in small scuffles, or one purchases the other and ousts them from the city. This is one of the few areas in which the more adult pleasures can be found, so there's a lot of money to be had. But recently, there's been, at least from what I've heard, a series of bodies have turned up. There were a few found, fished out by the Bastions in the water trough on the outskirts of the Duskmeadow."
Liam: The Bastions  what are they?
Matt: "Bastions who are the guardians of the city. From what I hear, they had been mauled by some sort of strange beast."
Liam: Mauled?
Matt: "Now, beasts on the outside of the city, that I can see. But on the inside, that is the stuff of nightmares. Is it not?"
Orion: Yes, I would agree.
Marisha: Have you had invaders like this before?
Matt: "I mean, death is not an uncommon occurrence for certain areas of the city." And she gestures off to the distant temple. "Some people invite it, even. But such violent death like this is usually kept to the outside of the city, at least with some sort of cause. This seems to be a murderous rampage that, me personally, I don't want to go out at night without protection."
Marisha: Is there is any indication of the cause of death on these corpses? How do they find them?
Matt: "I don't know. I've not investigated. Perhaps you have to ask the Bastions yourself that. Or anyone who was in the vicinity."
Liam: And can you point us in the right direction?
Matt: She looks around, and points off. And you can see, there isn't a whole lot of Bastion presence in this portion of the city, especially since the Bastions are more of a voluntary guard. People from the different clergies, the different temples, train to become Bastions, and fit themselves with whatever their deity's armor is. You do see there are two Bastions armored in a very dark, dark brown leather that carry a symbol of what looks like a silver raven that is embroidered on one shoulder of a cloak that is tossed to one side.
Liam: These guys are right here, essentially?
Matt: Yeah. Oh. They're across the road about maybe a block up. "I believe they're Bastions from the Duskmeadow. Perhaps you could ask them."
Marisha: Does she have any masks that look like a raven? A raven mask?
Matt: She does actually have one that looks like a raven.
Marisha: I want that one.
Matt: "Very well. A good choice. It doesn't quite match the color of your attire, but perhaps I have an outfit that could match for you?"
Marisha: Oh!
Will: Oh my god, we're going clothes shopping.
Marisha: Do you have a little cloak as well? A little cape?
Matt: "Cloaks I don't, but there but there is a cloakery about four blocks that way on your left. They can probably help you there."
Marisha: Thank you so much.
Matt: "Of course."
Liam: I notice a serpent-shaped mask on the wall. I just pick it up and put it on and say, thank you, madam. Much obliged. And walk off and clap Thorbir on the shoulder and keep walking.
Wil: Thorbir hangs back a little bit and waits for them to get to the door. And he looks at the shop keep and, do you have any masks that might fit a little girl?
Matt: "Yes, of course, friend dwarf." And she goes and rummages through a small bag and pulls out a mask. This little purple mask that seems to have small fake gems forming the outside, with a couple of ribbons that dangle where it would tie around the head. It's simple, but it's pretty. "Unfortunately, not many people bring children to this side of the district. They don't sell very well. But if you would like one, I would be happy to part with for two gold?"
Wil: One gold.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Wil: 18.
Matt: "One gold. Guess it is better to sell it than not at all. Here you are. I must say, I won't tell anyone, but purple is a pretty color on you."
Wil: Yes, it is. He walks out.
Matt: All right. A few moments pass as you wonder where your dwarven leader has vanished to, he steps out through the front of the establishment.
Wil: Let's go.
Orion: Great. Do you have potions? Are you all potioned up? Are you good on items, Thorbir?
Wil: I'm all right. Are you all right?
Orion: I'm just fine.
Liam: Well, we're in a rush, but if it's easy. How do you come by potions in this town?
Wil: Do I know the answer to that?
Matt: You do. They're either provided, from some of your experience, by the Slayer's Take, but those are usually offered at the start of a contract. The fact that they weren't offered on this means either they don't have any currently at their disposal, or they felt that this contract probably wouldn't require it with the construct of this group being set out. Other than that, they are a little hard to come by. A lot of them are controlled by the main temples and are pretty much given straight to the Bastions. There aren't a lot of individuals that are in need of them within the city, and those that travel out are either members of the Slayer's Take or members of the Bastion forces. So they are little hard to come by.
Wil: I think that if we're going to find them anywhere, it might be around here. Might be we can take some through trade. Maybe some might fall off a Bastion or two.
Orion: Well, let's go talk to one then, shall we?
Will: Thought that's what we were doing. Are going to the two Bastions over there or what?
Orion: Yes, Kashaw.
Will: Good. One other thing you need to know about them: they're horribly paid, so money talks with these people.
Orion: Very well.
Marisha: As he goes ahead, I keep up my pace until I trail behind him a little bit.
Will: Wonderful.
Liam: My hood goes up, and I'm gone.
Matt: All right. As you guys step across the way. It's about a block up. One of them is partially inside the alley between two of the buildings. You can see he has one hand up on the wall and the other down. One of them is relieving himself on the side of the building, while the other is keeping watch, arms crossed, looking out across the road. The one that's immediately present, or before you, you can see is human, a scruffy brown beard around the edge of the chin. The hair itself is cut very short. A little heavier in appearance. A little muscle, a little layer of winter padding, but the black leather armor definitely gives you the appearance of somebody who is a Bastion of the Raven Queen. As you approach, the hooded half-elf, the dwarf walking with the giant axe, and the bumbling dragonborn, the human cleric with a very angry disposition, and the awkward half-elf druid stepping in pace with him. Gives you all a cursory look and immediately puts a hand to his side where you can see that there is a rapier currently sheathed. "Aye, you walk with purpose."
Wil: We walk for the Guild.
Matt: "Slayer's Take it is?"
Wil: It is.
Matt: "What business have you on this side of town, then? Aren't you supposed to be out past the walls killing creatures and such?"
Wil: Our business takes us where our business takes us. Our business brings us here today.
Matt: "All right, then what's your business?"
Wil: You might be having some trouble?
Matt: "Aye."
Wil: What's causing you trouble and what's going to get us out of here might be the same thing.
Matt: The gentleman to the left of him finishes shaking off the rest of his alleyway journey.
Will: Any more than twice and you're just playing with it, pal.
Matt: He turns around and throws his tunic over. "Excuse me, it's official Bastion business. Anyway." And he nods over to the bearded gentleman who's standing there. "There are certain bits of business that are official in this town. I don't know how honestly right it is to be talking with common folk, or even the Guild who does what it likes."
Wil: I'm sorry, you're not talking to common folk.
Will: He wants money.
Wil: I know what he wants.
Will: Well, then give to him so we can get out of here.
Liam: I'm circling around.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Liam: 31.
Matt: I'm not even going to roll. I'm going to ask you to go ahead and you can choose if you want persuasion or intimidation on this. You're riding that line.
Wil: I'm equally bad at both of them. But I think that Thorbir wants to go intimidation. I'll give that a try. There it is!
Orion: 20?
Wil: What's the exact opposite of that? (laughter)
Matt: You know, I've heard about it for so long.
Wil: I know, right? You can't believe that it's a real thing until you're actually there.
Liam: Everybody talks about spontaneous combustion, but I'd never believed it.
Wil: It's silly. It's so silly to do this.
Marisha: Dice shame.
Liam: Naughty.
Matt: I don't know what ancient Aztec deity's temple you defaced when you were a child, but man. All right, so as you lean forward--
Wil: Please, just let me step into a bucket. (laughter)
Matt: We'll get to that. As you lean forward, forcing your presence on this Bastion, his hand's still holding the edge of his rapier. He steps forward into you, to the point where you're almost forehead to forehead. "Sorry, I have to lean down to reach your level. But if you're going to go about asking questions and not offering proper compensation for information, well, then. I think we have no business here."
Wil: If it's compensation you're looking for, let's just speak plain. And I pull out four gold.
Liam: And while he has their attention, I'm going to check out his pockets.
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: Ew, that's not good. I'm going to use Luck. That's better. That's all right. Perception, you said? 28.
Matt: 28? Taking a moment as you sneak up behind the one he's talking to-- the two guys are shoulder to shoulder, squaring off with the rest of this group. The one that had been relieving himself in the alleyway is a little bit closer to you. You can see as he put his tunic right and everything, he jostled around and revealed a couple of small pouches on his side. One of which, you heard a clinking of glass on the inside. Go ahead and make a sleight-of-hand check.
Marisha: Go rogue, go.
Liam: Because I'm wearing a Cloak of Elvenkind, which I know affects stealth checks but not--
Matt: Not sleight of hand, no.
Liam: That's all right. 20.
Matt: 20. All right. You reach over and find the edge of the leather loop that attaches itself to the side of this Bastion's belt. You tug ever so gently to the side and the loop releases and you pull it off, seemingly without any noticing. As you pull out the four gold from inside, the Bastion looks out and scoffs and goes, "Clearly, pittance fee for this. What's to let me think that you aren't actually part of this murder scheme? You just walk up and try and start asking questions like this. First off, where did you hear about it? Second, you look like the kind that would go ahead and be mauling folks in the street, do you not, sir dwarf? You got the eyes of one who's probably done a few dark deeds."
Wil: Oh, I have. More than you can imagine.
Matt: "Then explain to me why we shouldn't take you in for questioning right now." And he pulls his rapier out.
Orion: Hold on. Everybody calm down. Hi, I'm Tiberius Stormwind. My friend Thorbir here didn't mean to offend, of course.
Matt: The blade up toward your face. And he says, "Look, dragon man, I was talking to the dwarf. You, I have no business with at the moment. So. You've got ten seconds before we take you in."
Wil: I reach into my pocket and rattle my coins around a little bit. Maybe I could buy us some time. And I drop ten gold out into my other hand.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Will: One! No, it isn't.
Matt: Three.
Wil: That's funny. I rolled a three on this die. So that's going to be a six. Guys, I think we're fighting the Bastions. I feel like maybe it's going that way.
Marisha: You rolled a one?
Matt: I rolled one.
Marisha: You all have really low self-confidence.
Matt: As you push forward the coins, in a semi-awkward forceful manner, the Bastion himself also seems to be caught off-guard, and looks down, and looks about. Realizing that now it looks like you are visibly out in the open, paying money to the Bastions. He looks back. "People don't stand out in public and do it!" And he pulls you all off into the alleyway to the side of the complex. Out of the middle of the area into the shade between the buildings. He reaches over and takes the coins from your hand and hurries them into a pocket. "All right, look. I'll tell you what we know. But if you're going to be messing around with this investigation, I ask that you don't let anyone know that you spoke with us. This is all on your own. And if you do say anything, we'll deny it and we'll make sure to put you in the Oubliette yourself for this. All right?"
Orion: Fair enough.
Wil: All right.
Will: All right.
Matt: "Now, we have found a series of bodies over the past few years, scattered about. A few months at a time between. All with a similar pattern of death to them. We found large portions, the meaty portions of the body had been torn away, some of them apparently eaten. There are marks that are indicative of some sort of beast ravaging the corpses, but no signs of a beast coming or going. And we've had many of our finest trackers looking for any sort of sign of a creature that may have found its way into the city. They've been in the rooftops, the gutters, perhaps even the sewers. No sign of any such creature traveling amongst any of these scenes. Now, all of the bodies have been found wrapped up and discarded in the canals. A lot of them surrounding the Abundant Terrace." Looks at the rest of you. "That's where Melora's eye is watchful. What's really got us confused of late is, the most recent murder that we found was a very powerful merchant lord from Ank'harel, one that's been in this city for no more than a month. He's well-known in these parts as bringing in a lot of business. His caravans come through via various skyships. And he brings with himself an influx of much-needed mercantile in the city."
Marisha: What's his name?
Matt: "I'm not allowed to say."
Will: You're not allowed to say?
Matt: "The merchant's name is Tyrell."
Marisha: What?
Matt: "Tyrell. Lord Tyrell. If you say any of this to any of our people, I swear I'll make your life the hardest it's been in months. And from the looks of you, you've had a very hard few months. Lord Tyrell's body was found, but apparently during the murder. We have one beggar that apparently caught sight of this the murderer. As best as we can tell, it was some sort of lycanthrope. The beggar was babbling, but it seemed there was some sort of wolf-like creature. It was seen bipedal walking a man, but tore this man right through the throat, most of his chest. But when spotted, didn't run, just vanished. Disappeared. No longer in his sight. No tracks left behind. Just gone. Didn't know if it was angry poltergeist, ghost. But the last place he was staying is at a recent establishment, only been here a couple of years. Referred to as the Velvet Cabaret. The Velvet Cabaret is a very high-end place."
Will: I know it well.
Matt: "You do?" He gives you a look of--
Will: I've heard about it from somewhere else.
Orion: Scanlan? Have you been talking to Scanlan?
Will: Don't know who that is, Stormshadow.
Orion: He likes whores. Okay. It's weird.
Matt: "The fact that that the lord had been staying at the Velvet Cabaret for some time, and we were feeling pretty close to possibly finding the source of these murders. Our bastion force from the Duskmeadow worked with the Quadroads and we actually raided it. Found nothing. Nothing but the patrons, no sign of any sort of foul play. We were forced to leave empty handed. That's all we've got."
Will: I have a question about the bodies. Have you seen them?
Matt: "I've only seen the most recent. The rest, I've just heard of."
Will: Anything similar with them? Are they all men? Are they all women? Are they children?
Matt: "No children. Most of them seem to be well off to do folk. Dressed well."
Will: Wealthy men and women? And you say you've searched everywhere, including the catacombs?
Matt: "Most. Catacombs themselves are sealed off. We've asked around, and there's been no sign of movement in or out. And gods forbid, anyone stays in those places. That's a nasty place to be staying."
Will: It is, indeed.
Orion: Is there a way that the bastions could organize some kind of gathering of sorts? Perhaps a mandatory town meeting, where all would have to gather for maybe an announcement or something official?
Matt: "All the bastions? That's near impossible. The city's scattered politically enough as it is. People can be rallying whenever there's some sort of force coming against the city. But when it comes to nothing for any particular reason, just the investigators take care of it themselves."
Wil: He serves the Raven Queen, right? He's got the Raven Queen patch on him?
Matt: Yeah.
Wil: This part of town, death isn't the worst thing in the world. Lots of planes other than ours, might be you're a little bit closer than some of the rest of us are; we're underneath the mountain. You wouldn't happen to know about anyone performing any rituals or maybe opening up lines of communication that may have been made and disturbed?
Matt: "I certainly hope not. These sort of communion rituals are sanctified and held within the actual temple to the Raven Queen itself. If anyone is doing any sort of business, there is a very watchful eye over the city. Anything that is unsanctioned, I can guarantee we'll know about it."
Orion: May we seek audience with this Raven Queen?
Marisha: I mean, she's a goddess.
Orion: Oh. She's not here?
Marisha: She's not a queen. She's a goddess.
Matt: You can see the two the two bastions are looking at each other with expression of "Really?"
Orion: We're new around here.
Matt: "Listen, we've talked long enough. We got to get back to our posts."
Marisha: Oh, wait. You mentioned investigators?
Matt: "There are different people assigned to investigate. We were part of the team that was sent as part of the investigation raid on the Velvet Cabaret."
Marisha: It's not a group of people. It's just, "you're an investigator today" kind of thing?
Matt: "That's part of what we do as Bastions, aye."
Marisha: Gotcha. Is there anyone else that is part of the investigation team that you think would be good to talk to?
Matt: "They wouldn't have any more information than we do, no."
Marisha: Can I do an insight check on him?
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Marisha: 23.
Matt: He seems forthright enough. He seems impatient and a little flustered with the fact that you've been pushing these questions to him. But he doesn't seem to be covering anything necessarily.
Wil: Did he tell us where they found the-- I didn't write this down.
Liam: And Lord Tyrell factored in how?
Wil: Can you tell us where you found the body of the merchant lord?
Matt: "The body was found in the side alley to the Velvet Cabaret."
Will: You said wrapped up? Or just the ones in the river were wrapped up?
Matt: "The ones that were found in the river, they were wrapped up in blankets. Whatever put them aside was not some beast. There was some intelligence to this. And they were placed deliberately, which means, I don't think there's just one thing doing this."
Will: Were the blankets the same, or were they all different?
Matt: "They seemed to be different. Some were just scattered cloths. Some were tattered sheets. Some were bolts of fine material. Really varied. There was no pattern to it."
Will: Was anything missing from Lord Tyrell?
Matt: "Nothing more than his throat, his trachea."
Liam: We've pumped these guys for all they've got.
Wil: You're all right. Sorry about that.
Matt: "It's all right, just offer more coin up front next time. Be well. And if you hear anything, find any information, come straight to us. Don't be getting into official business. You're sanctified as a Slayer, but don't make us look bad." They step around you guys, back out into the main street.
Wil: Velvet Cabaret?
Marisha: Velvet Cabaret.
Will: It's close.
Marisha: So we know that this guy-- while we walk there, I was talking. We know that this guy is a demon from the Nine Hells. So, he seems to be targeting wealthy people. Do you think these are people that tried to get under his control, under his servitude, and it didn't go his way, so he ended up killing them?
Wil: Folk don't go into the Velvet Cabaret unless they got a lot of coin. Someone like Lord Tyrell. Do we know anything about him? Does his name ring any bells for us at all?
Matt: Roll a history check.
Wil: Oh boy. (laughs) It happened again!
Matt: This is unprecedented. You are the nega-Percy right now.
Wil: Just telling you. I'm just telling you.
Matt: This is impressive.
Wil: You think it isn't real. You think it's a thing I make jokes about.
Matt: You take a moment to conjecture where you may have heard the name. What was the name again?
Wil: Oh, the guy from Battlestar Galactica. Oh, what was his name? Adama?
Matt: You want to roll a history check?
Will: d20?
Matt: d20 and add your history modifier.
Will: Add my history. 20. Total of 20.
Matt: Total is 20? All right. You've heard of the city of Ank'Harel. It's a desert city from a long ways away. But you aren't specifically aware of this individual. You however, Kashaw, you know that Lord Tyrell has come through this city a few times in the past year or so. You've only been here a short time yourself, but in the time that you've been here, you've heard tales of this large caravan that comes through. And it is a parade. He usually brings with him a good 13 different carts that contain all sorts of jewels and materials and tapestries and fine silks, and it's almost a small party whenever this is this long walking caravan is brought into the city. So you are aware of this individual. You're surprised that the death has be kept so hush-hush.
Will: And are there rumors of about him bring in anything else? Anything illicit? Or is it kind of "what you see is what you get?"
Matt: As far as you know? No information that has caught your ear per se, but the fact that he's staying in this district, who knows?
Wil: Folks tend to stay-- Let me try that again. Folk tend to stay with their own class. These victims are all wealthy folk. And they seem to have the Velvet Cabaret in common. It's very likely that we're dealing with somebody who is rich and powerful.
Will: What does a demon need money for?
Wil: Who says he's after money?
Marisha: Seems to be after power.
Liam: Tyrell was passing through. I wonder how many people would notice him gone here in Vasselheim.
Orion: I'm sure quite a few.
Marisha: And it seems like it's no secret when he comes to town.
Will: It was a party every time he showed up.
Marisha: And according to the guards, these murders have been going on for the past few years, so it seems like whatever we're dealing with might have time to plan ahead. If he's been aware of the past few times that Tyrell has come through the town and could possibly know the next time he's coming through.
Orion: And if we could pinpoint when it actually started, we know years, but actually when, then we can actually narrow it down to the establishments and other things that were established then.
Wil: Would there be a place where we could inquire as to some sort of ledger like that when this guy comes in and with the intention of trying to correlate it with when different murders have happened? Actually, I take that back. Thorbir doesn't think that deeply. That's not the thing that he wants to do. That sounds like a lot of thinking and not a lot of hitting things.
Liam: This killer could be hiding in plain sight at the Cabaret. Could be an employee there.
Orion: Or the owner himself.
Marisha: How long ago did the bastions say that they raided the Velvet Cabaret?
Will: It was a month ago, wasn't it?
Matt: It was a few weeks back when the murder occurred, yeah.
Marisha: So here's my question  do you think he would stick around after it was raided? Or do you think he'd move on?
Liam: The thing is vanishing upon sight.
Will: And gotten away with it for the last two or three years. I don't think he cares much anymore.
Liam: My question is  we have three days, Cabaret's the only lead we have. How do we draw this person, he or she, out?
Marisha: I believe it is three days.
Liam: We have three days to collar it.
Matt: You have three days to complete the contract, meaning slaying the entity you're contracted to.
Will: I was going to say that you look like a man who knows wealth.
Orion: Yes.
Liam: I've spent time with wealth.
Will: Well, I never have, so I would think maybe if you were a merchant coming into town, very wealthy, looking for some adult entertainment, might be a way to bring him out the forefront.
Orion: Oh, I agree. I cast Alter Self on myself and turn myself into an elf. You're half-elf right?
Liam: Half-elves.
Orion: I'll turn into a half-elf, akin to a high-born half elf.
Matt: All right, fair enough. Even in comparison to Vax, your attire is very nice.
Marisha: Does this mean that I should go change clothes?
Will: You were going to go shopping.
Marisha: I was.
Orion: You look okay.
Marisha: Thank you.
Liam: Let's go. I jingle what gold I have in a pouch in front of Keyleth's face and say, let's go shopping. Come on.
Wil: Shopping montage.
Matt: As you guys go out shopping for better looking, well-to-do attire, we'll go ahead and take a quick five-minute break and we'll return here and as you guys continue to the next step of your hunt for the rakshasa.
Wil: Oh, Tyrell! I just remembered. (laughter)
Wil: What a silly thing to forget.
Liam: As the rakshasa bears down on your head.
Matt: Last thing engraved on your tombstone. Yeah, quick five-minute break. First off, before we get to that, guys: A big thank you to Negihama once again, our patron saint of ridiculous gifts, who purchased these sconces to put on the wall.
Liam: They're legit.
Marisha: Aren't the sconces awesome?
Matt: They are amazing.
Marisha: The LEDs change colors.
Matt: Reminder  every hundred subs we're giving away a signed picture and signed full-scale poster of Kit's art. And for the break, the five-minute break we're going to take real fast, we have an awesome video that was presented to us by some of the Critters that I think you'll also appreciate as well. So we'll go ahead roll that and use the potty and we'll see you guys in a few minutes. [break]
Matt: Welcome back. I assume we'll have a Liam here in just a moment.
Orion: He's just stealthing.
Will: He's stealthing. He rolled a 28 and disappeared.
Wil: I was talking Liam's ear off during the break about how much I love the dynamic among the three of you, and commiserating about how you feel really naked and exposed when your whole party isn't together. How weird that feels to not have everybody together at the same time. I think I kept him from the bathroom.
Matt: Oh, gotcha. That's okay. He'll arrive. When he comes, we'll all awkwardly stare. Yeah. When he does. When he arrives we'll all just-- But in the meantime, you managed to go back and--
Liam: Stealth. Disadvantage on my next five attacks. (laughter)
Will: I love the awkward stare. It was great.
Wil: He's actually a very generous DM if he does that. I actually make my players roll damage when they upset me.
Matt: Oh, that's good to know.
Wil: Yeah, dude, d6 damage if you annoy the GM.
Matt: Wrath of the gods comes down upon you. All right, so you guys taken a few minutes to acquire outfits that seem a little more fitting as to the establishment you're planning to go and enter.
Marisha: Guys, we should have aliases. Can we have aliases?
Wil: Yeah, I'll be Thorbir.
Will: I like it. It's easy to remember.
Marisha: Very easy. Oh, you know what, maybe I could-- would it be weird if I'm Vex? That's weird, isn't it?
Liam: That's really weird.
Marisha: Okay. What's a good elven name? What's something common in Elven? You were around this stuff. All of my people have weird tribal names. What's good?
Liam: Elivr is nice. Coralin.
Marisha: Oh, Coralin. Do I look like a Coralin?
Will: What does a Coralin look like?
Orion: She does that. Just agree.
Liam: I will be Scanlan Shorthalt.
Marisha: (stutters) What, you can be Scanlan, but I couldn't be Vex?
Liam: No, you can't do that. I'm just saying it's weird.
Marisha: That's double standard, Vax. I'm just saying.
Orion: I think it's maybe because you're not his sister and it would be weird because that's his sister's name.
Will: You have a sister?
Liam: I have a twin, yes.
Will: What does she look like? Oh.
Orion: But she's a female.
Will: She sounds lovely.
Wil: Humans, am I right?
Marisha: She's very nice.
Will: That's what they say about all the ugly girls. "She's very nice."
Marisha: I feel like I'm learning so much from you. Is that what they say?
Orion: Life lessons, yes.
Will: Velvet Cabaret?
Liam: To the Cabaret.
Wil: I presume that I'll play the role of your guard.
Liam: Bodyguard, yes.
Will: What does that make me? How about your valet? You'll need one if you're wealthy. Would you have a human, though?
Liam: Of course. Of course I'll have a human, being elven.
Orion: Are we on our way there now?
Liam: Yeah, we're walking and talking. And you're changed into a gnome.
Orion: Now I change. I change, because it only lasts a certain amount of time.
Liam: Boy or girl?
Orion: I'm a boy.
Will: So are you Lord Vax?
Liam: Lord Scanlan of the Shorthalts.
Will: Lord Scanlan, okay. Lord Scanlan of the-- I'm sorry, of the what?
Liam: Of the Shorthalts.
Will: Of the Shorthalts. Okay.
Liam: We have a cobbling empire. Shoes.
Will: The Shorthalts. Okay. Lord Scanlan of the Shorthalts.
Liam: We cater mostly to halflings and gnomes. Everyone, but specifically because they're so underserved.
Will: You have a gnome shoe empire?
Liam: Rolling in it, baby.
Wil: Where's your empire, human?
Will: I have no empire. I'm his valet.
Liam: We're wonderful partners, dear.
Marisha: Am I your wife?
Liam: Do you want to be? Is that weird?
Marisha: No.
Orion: I say it's equally-- no, it's fine.
Marisha: No, it's fine. Yeah, I can be your wife. I can RP this. I mean I can pretend to be. Yeah. So Coralin Shorthalt.
Wil: Thorbir is pulling on his beard and breathing deeply.
Orion: Now I cast Alter Self.
Matt: All right. Cast and a flash of light. You guys all pick up the very, very heavy smell of breakfast ale emanating from the deeply breathing, angry dwarf.
Orion: Wait, Vax. What was my role in this?
Liam: You're an advisor. A financial advisor.
Orion: Financial advisor. Excellent.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way to a little bit further north this of this route, five or six blocks until you get the outskirts of the Velvet Cabaret, which based on the description you've gotten from a few individuals you asked around, very easy to find. The fancy house of entertainment. It is a two-story building of dark cherry wood with strips of what looks to be black suede bolted in a pattern along the outside of it. It stands out like a sore thumb against the rest of the architecture, but it looks a night club. It looks very, very gaudy, but in a way that the garishness looks expensive, and so you can't really fault it for looking the way it does.
Wil: It looks like cruise ship goth club.
Matt: I like that. I'll take that.
Will: Cruise ship goth club.
Wil: That's a thing that exists.
Will: Really?!
Matt: When are we going to this?
Wil: Every year on the Jonathan Coulton Cruise, we gather in the cruise ship goth club.
Will: Wow.
Matt: JoCo Cruise.
Will: Too many jokes.
Matt: I know. As you approach the front, you can see that there are two bouncers established at the very front. To the left, you see a meaty male dragonborn, bronze scale with painted face scars. He has a very, very intense look about him. He's thicker. He's built like a barrel. He sits with his arms crossed, looking angrily out amongst the rest of the folks outside. To the other side, you recognize a burly-looking female with short hair and some facial tattoos. The Siren, who you saw battle in the Cauldron, apparently works as one of the bouncers of the Velvet Cabaret.
Orion: I approach right next to Vax, as we move up. Scanlan. In Draconic I go, greetings and salutations, friend.
Matt: He gives you a look of confusion for a second and leans forward and the dragonborn looks very intently at you and says back in Draconic, "Are you a member?"
Orion: Not yet. We are new to this place. My master here is seeking audience with his kind. We were guided to this place. This establishment has a high reputation. We wish to inquire how to get inside.
Matt: Looks over to the Siren. Siren glances back and, "What's he saying?" And the dragonborn glances over. And he says out loud in Common now, at this point, "He's saying that they're looking to come in here and talk to other elvish guys, I guess."
Orion: Oh, not elvish, but more people of high society. High society here.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Orion: 21.
Matt: 21. He gives a glance over. "Well, if you're not a member, you can acquire membership, but it has to approved first by the owner."
Orion: May we seek audience with him to ask or apply, or however that goes about.
Matt: "Let me get his assistant. Hold on just a second. Siren." She gives a look. "I'll be right back." She rolls up her sleeves and steps inside as the door opens.
Marisha: As I see her, I turn and face outward.
Will: You know her?
Marisha: No.
Will: Okay.
Matt: As the door opens, you can already hear what sounds like soft harp music coming from the interior. And it's hard to actually look inside because as you can see there are silks draped crossed over and in front of the entryway, as soon as you step in. A few moments pass, eventually the Siren returns and you are greeted at the doorway by a dwarf with very well-groomed facial hair. A beard that comes to a fine point, has a little gold ring at the very bottom that kinks it at the bottom, this little poof. With makeup on. Very rosy cheeks, and you can see there is eyeliner around his eyes. Smile to his face. Wearing these long white robes, lots of jewelry. And the rest of his dark brown hair is pulled into a dual ponytail that runs down to the middle of the back. Comes to door and immediately says, "Gracious welcome to all of you. I've been told that you're seeking possible membership to our establishment."
Orion: In Dwarvish I say, that's correct.
Matt: "Well, fantastic, then. Don't leave possible patrons outside." And looks off to the two bouncers and they grumble and step off to the side. "Come in. Come in. Follow me." And he steps inside. As you guys walk in behind him, immediately you're hit with the strong smell of exotic incense and the cooking of meat mingling with that. It has this smell of everything good you've ever smelled mixed into one location.
Will: Love the smell of these places.
Matt: The interior is fairly low-lit with what looks like a series of faerie-fire lamps dangling in small lattice cages. So it has this light purplish-pink glow to the general interior. There are no stools or chairs. There are tables that low set and the floor is nearly covered with very, very expensive looking pillows. All the patrons are currently sitting cross-legged or laying around the tables. And you can see the clientele is very well dressed and very wealthy. There is laughter and conversation. There's definitely has a very, very different air. It's like stepping into a whole different world from what you're used to seeing in Vasselheim. And you get the feeling that whoever created this establishment definitely created it to provide a very different experience for most people who work here, which means one, it probably makes a really good killing to the small number of clientele, number two, it probably isn't very well liked by the people who have been living here most their life. As you look around, too, there are dice games being played, there are many gold pieces being stacked up on tables. It appears that there's definitely a lively-- what's the word I'm looking for? My brain isn't working-- gambling arrangement in this place. You notice that all the guards in the inside, the bouncers, are common sell-swords. There's no unification to their adornments or any of their armor and stuff. There are a few folks that are looking around, keeping the peace, arms crossed. They all definitely have weapons visible. And they're just sitting there, guarding just like the bouncers were at front of the place.
Will: How many dwarves?
Matt: Just the one that let you inside.
Marisha: I reach over and I grab Vax's hand.
Liam: I fold her arm in and walk forward.
Matt: All right.
Will: I think, as they move forward, I would like to pull Thorbir aside and say, maybe since we're trying to get membership here, you should cover your runes.
Wil: Noted.
Will: Thank you.
Wil: I'd like to make a perception check to size up the guards around. Ten.
Matt: Well, that's a step in the right direction.
Wil: I rolled four times as good as I usually roll.
Matt: Looking about, they look armored. It's hard to tell their skill level, based on the low light in here. They seem definitely keeping an eye out, but you can tell they've been working here a while and they've grown comfortable. What you do notice, though, is a lot of the servers that are walking around are young men and women dressed in very fine silk robes or gowns. All have these iron bands around their neck, collars, that aren't chained to anything. But it immediately gives you this mental image of slavery or some sort of servitude. It does not appear that they are actually in some sort of servitude, but the adornment they wear is almost trying to get across that atmosphere, as if that's part of what you're paying for. It sickens you a little.
Wil: I'm going to carry myself and I'm going to do what I can to give off that I'm keeping an eye on this guy, that I'm the guy. That's how I'm trying to carry myself.
Matt: Okay. As you guys you have walked to the center of this room now, the dwarf individual who let you in turns around and with a bit of a bow. "I would to introduce myself. My name is Hosin. I am the manager of this fine establishment, the Velvet Cabaret. I'd like to welcome you..."
Liam: Scanlan of the Shorthalts.
Matt: "Scanlan of the Shorthalts? Where do you hail from? I've not heard of them."
Liam: We come from Emon. I sell shoes. We sell shoes.
Marisha: Yes, Coralin Shorthalt.
Matt: "Coralin Shorthalt."
Marisha: Yes, pleasure.
Matt: "Very well. Well, you have interest in membership you say?"
Liam: We do. We're hoping to sample the atmosphere here. Is there entertainment? We heard there was great entertainment.
Matt: "Oh yes, quite entertainment here at certain hours, if you like. For now, we have more an atmospheric presentation." And he looks over, and you can you see that there is small stage off to the corner. There sits a very beautiful elven woman, dressed in a gold gown that is sleeveless and hugs to her form very well. You can see that it shimmers and little bit of purple fairy light that is hanging above her. And she just this gorgeous-looking silver harp in front of her. She's just plucking away. Her eyes are closed, like she's just caught in the moment. And there's group of people that are sitting around her chatting softly, not to be overbearing to the music, but to just be around that atmosphere.
Orion: Your wonderful employees mentioned membership. We'd like to acquire that as well, I assume, as well.
Matt: You're saying this to Hosin?
Liam: This is Thorlaxalux, my financial advisor.
Orion: Thorlaxalux, at your service. I bow gracefully.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll. No, deception roll. Deception roll.
Orion: What is that? 16?
Matt: 16? All right. "The pleasure is mine. And it's not often that come across elves that have taken the time to learn the tongue of my folk."
Orion: I know many languages.
Marisha: He's very well traveled. Very well cultured. That's part why we hired him.
Orion: I was a bit of a shut-in as a child. All I had were books on languages to read and whatnot, and adventures and what have you.
Matt: "Well, if you are seeking membership, you should probably speak with our patron, the owner of this establishment. He's currently in a meeting, I believe, but step with me for a moment." And he leads you to go to the other side of the room. And you know, all these draped orange and gold silks that are constantly getting in your way as you push through. Leads you into a doorway that is covered in these silks. You push into the hallway to the right and left. There's a door across the way, and two doors down the left. And the door at the very end is a really ornate-looking door with a series of locks that currently unlocked. Hosin walks up to it and knocks gently onto it, takes a listen. "Ah, it appears that he will be available in just a moment, if you'd like to sit tight, and you're more than welcome to speak."
Marisha: Question, Hosin. While we wait, do you happen to have any wine or ale? Just while we wait. It's been such a long travel.
Matt: "But of course."
Marisha: Thank you. You're so kind.
Matt: He claps his hands, and you can see one of the servants that you saw walking with a small tray enters from the side of the hallway. "Yes?" Hosin turns. "The finest wine we have available for the elven lass right here." The servant immediately darts off, averting the eyes. A moment passes. Returns with three glasses of wine, looking over you two. Hands one to each of you. And the servant, still averting his gaze from the guests, smiles, gives a little curtsy, and then darts back into the main room.
Marisha: Cheers. Cling.
Liam: I cling and hand my glass to Thorbir.
Marisha: I take a sip of mine. It's very good.
Wil: All right. I'm sipping to keep up the charade, but I'm not happy about it.
Matt: It's definitely an elvish blend, which is generally too sweet for your tastes, but for what you were expecting, it's not too bad. Its serviceable. Nowhere near strong enough to really do anything, but it's not water.
Wil: So as I hand it back to you, I sort of mutter, wine. (laughter)
Wil: Giant dwarven air quotes.
Matt: The doorway at the end of the hallway opens up suddenly, and as it does, a servant walks out holding a tray that contains a bunch of partially-eaten fruits and what looks the outer gristle of some sort of cooked meat, and looks at you all awkwardly and steps past and disappears into the other room. You hear a voice come down the hallway. "Enter! I ask you all to enter. You are to meet me. Please, come, sit, be comfortable. Welcome to the Velvet Cabaret."
Liam: Look to Thorbir and then look in the room.
Wil: I step into the room.
Matt: As you enter, Hosin lowers his head and offers his arms at the rest of you to acquiesce. Stepping into the room, you see-- once again, a room that has a square or rectangular table in the center that has a series of small platters on it with bits of previously devoured meal, and there are three small cushions on the ground that you see would act as some sort of sitting arrangement. The opposite side of the room has three large purple cushions on which there are two women, also servants, that are just lying back comfortably, just resting, and in the center, you see a man, very dark complexion, ratty looking, crimped dark hair, very well-trimmed beard and mustache ensemble, and long black and gold robes. Very, very long sleeves and jewelry adorning every ounce of his hands, his fingers, you can barely see the actual skin beneath, there is just so much jewelry adorning him. He looks up smiling with his elbows near the edge of the table. "Have a seat. We are to talk, yes? Introduce yourselves. Guests are always welcome, but I wish to know who it is that I am guesting for."
Liam: I seat Coralin and have a seat myself. And pretending to check out the women in the room, I make a perception check. And that is a 16.
Matt: All right, what are trying to see?
Liam: Oh, if anything sets off my alarm bells.
Matt: They seem to be lounging. And there isn't like fear in their eyes or that they are being mistreated per se. Almost like they're here for atmosphere.
Liam: And the room itself?
Matt: The room itself-- Most of the walls have like a velvety texture to them. All the wood has been covered with some sort of material that has a comfortable almost-- Everything feels like it's a lounging bedroom. And that's the aesthetic of a lot of the interior of this location. You cannot quite see the source of the light in the room. It almost feels like there's an indirect lighting accoutrement across the ceiling. Whatever the source of lighting is, it's being spread across the top. It gives this sort of dark intimate feel to this current room at least. As he gestures out to the rest of you to sit. "I fear there are only three seats, but I assume that your accompaniment are accustomed to standing, anyway. So do not worry. Very good. Now you say you come for membership. Membership does not come cheap. Membership does not come to anyone. We have a certain level of clientele we wish to keep, because in keeping this it is easy enough for us to consider it very-- how do I say?-- exquisite."
Marisha: I'm sorry, before we go on, what was your name? I don't believe I caught it.
Matt: "I did not catch your name either."
Marisha: Oh, I'm sorry, I am Coralin. Coralin Shorthalt.
Matt: "Coralin Shorthalt."
Marisha: Of the Emon Shorthalts.
Matt: Takes your hand and leans forward, and gives you this ginger kiss to edge of your fingers. Yeah, there is a slimy-ish presence, but not too aggressive. Just a very well-trained type of dealing with guests.
Marisha: I subversively wipe it on my robes.
Matt: "My name is Vince Cyinnor. And I am the owner of this house of joy and pleasure."
Liam: I'm the lucky man who married her. My name is Scanlan of the Shorthalts. We're in from Emon, and reputation of this establishment is well known within all parts of the walls. We're looking to possibly become members here. We hear the entertainment is top-notch, and we hear that business happens within these walls. But I'm not convinced. I'm hoping to stay for an hour to see what you have to offer. When I find I like a place, I stay for a long time and leave a lot of money. I'd just like a little taste.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: Using my last Luck of the day. That's better. 15.
Matt: 15. "Hosin, if you don't mind." And the door closes behind you guys. "Well, Scanlan Shorthalt. What, may I ask, business do you run that gives you the liquid assets to think that you can walk and rub shoulders among such astute clientele? You are well-dressed, I see, and well-versed in conversation. But have not heard of you before and I have very acute ears for people of such heritage in this city."
Liam: We hail from Emon. We're not very flashy. We certainly don't do much in public in Emon. I prefer to make my money and enjoy my money and I don't believe in ostentation.
Matt: "Why have you come to this establishment? I am made of ostentation, for I do not fear what people judge or think here. Do what you like."
Liam: Don't get me wrong. I enjoy the form of a beautiful woman as much as the next man.
Matt: "Why limit yourself?"
Liam: Who said I do?
Matt: "Even this one here, while his appearance may be rough, I'm certain that under certain circumstances he could be persuaded to prove his weight in more than gold and weaponry."
Marisha: Mr. Cyinnor, I think it is best that you do not make presumptions on our relationship and dealings.
Liam: My wife and I are businessmen. And what we hear is that this is where business happens.
Matt: "Business does happen here, yes. Quite a bit of interesting business."
Marisha: And we are very interested in all of those interesting businesses.
Matt: "From what I hear, as my assistant has told me, your business is shoes. Tell me, why would the business of shoes require such an ostentatious location for business?"
Liam: The shoes are the public face, but the well runs deep.
Matt: "We get to the meat of the matter, eh? So, shoes is but an appearance. What is your business aside from cobbling, Mr. Shorthalt?"
Liam: I know my way around poison, and I hear you have the rarest of breeds here. I have come to spend some money to satisfy my clients.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: 15 again.
Matt: What was it?
Liam: 15 again.
Matt: "Poisons? So you supply to what? King-killers? Supply to sell-swords? You apply them to your own weapons? You realize this city is very, very tight-knit when it comes to these sorts of industries. Although I know you would think possibly to find it here, I guarantee you what we deal with here has nothing to do with slitting of throats."
Liam: I'm not looking to sell. I'm looking to buy.
Matt: "I will tell you one thing that I am interested in buying. I'm interested in buying information. I'm interested in buying loyalty. I'm interested in buying trust. Since you've walked into this room, there has been an air of something not right about you. And through this conversation, I have come to believe that perhaps you're not telling me the truth. Now, I will ask of you this moment, whoever you may be, Shorthalt or not, but this entire facility is very well paid to make sure that should you try anything funny, you won't get but two steps before the heads leave your shoulders. So let's be frank here. Who are you? Why are you here?"
Marisha: Mr. Vince, let's not play coy. I am sure you have dealt with many a powerful client in your day. And I am sure that it is not unfamiliar to you that many powerful clients have many deep secrets.
Orion: As she finishes that, I dispel Alter Self.
Matt: Okay. As your actual dragonborn appearance restores itself, he sits back.
Orion: My apologies. I am Tiberius Stormwind-- yes, wind.
Will: I can never get it right.
Orion: I merely dispelled this to show you that earning your trust is in our best interests. I do not wish to deceive.
Matt: "Then perhaps you should have walked in this form when you first arrived."
Orion: Many people don't take kindly to a red dragonborn by the way. I just thought it was best. We're in a new town and it was standard protocol whenever we visit a new town. My apologies.
Matt: "Well, one person has come clean. What about this one? What is your business here?"
Will: My business here is the same as theirs. We're here, in the long run, to help you.
Matt: "What is to help me? You have not told me what your business is."
Liam: We're here to stop a murderer.
Matt: "Explain."
Liam: Bodies have been showing up outside this building. Multiple bodies. We're not going to get into the details, but we've been sent here to stop that from happening any further.
Orion: We're fairly sure you know of this.
Liam: Look at this guy. Does he look like he's fucking around?
Wil: He winks at him.
Matt: The force of the wink itself is intense enough to the point where he physically shudders and leans back a few inches.
Liam: Now, you must be aware of this problem. Can't be a surprise to you. People are starting to take notice in this city. This was inevitable.
Will: Do you still have Lord Tyrell's possessions?
Matt: "This is about Lord Tyrell? We do have his possessions. They have been investigated. Our establishment has already been investigated. The Bastions were very thorough, and we have been found absolved of any sort of involvement."
Marisha: We are not Bastions. And we are not here to accuse. And we are not here to investigate your establishment.
Matt: "Interesting. You come in here and lie. It seems to me exactly what you're doing. Now, are you coming to ask questions? To see what involvement we have? Answers? We've already told everything to anyone else. We have no involvement. I don't know what you're talking about. This is ridiculous. And I may have to ask you to leave."
Marisha: He's shutting down. Someone do something quick.
Liam: Insight check, insight check. Balls.
Wil: I will also make an insight check.
Marisha: Can I do that, as well? (laughter)
Matt: What did you get?
Marisha: We're all going to die.
Liam: That makes my ten look titanic.
Wil: I'm trying to make you look good. It's what Thorbir does.
Marisha: 19.
Wil: I rolled a two.
Will: You're going up.
Matt: It's not impressive. That's mythic.
Wil: Statistically unlikely.
Will: That's the thing. You're beating math.
Wil: I've been beating math for 20 years. I'm very good.
Matt: Yeah. You're the singularity that ruins the universe.
Wil: Somewhere in the world there's a person who never rolls under 17. And I was placed on this planet to balance the math to save you all. To prevent the center of the planet from collapsing and taking us all with it. You're welcome.
Liam: She's in New Zealand. The other side of the Earth.
Matt: All right. So, as you're all taking this moment to yourself. It's hard to read. It seems like he's very thorough and offended by this circumstance. You glean that there is a nervousness, and there are droplets of sweat across his brow. And his brusqeness does show a bit of fear in his eyes.
Marisha: About this time, I go (fwoosh) and I cast my wind spell. And I slam the doors behind us. And I slam the shutters. And turn out all the lights. Did you say there was candlelight? Or did you say there was weird indirect lighting.
Matt: Yeah, indirect lighting. You don't quite know where the source is coming from. The door was already closed behind you. Hosin closed it. But as the wind comes out, all the silks blow against the wall. Pillows are lobbed to the sides. Both of the women in there (yelps) and pull back against walls, trying to keep out of the circumstance. And you can see Vince has begun to stand up and his hair blown back. "What is the meaning of this?"
Marisha: Now. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to do that. I sometimes get a little out of control. But remain calm! All right?! Jesus! Remain calm!
Orion: You calm down.
Marisha: I'm sorry! I'm trying to remain calm, too!
Will: Doing a great job.
Marisha: Thank you! Okay.
Matt: Persuasion check.
Marisha: Damn it.
Liam: Who's in this room? It's the women--
Matt: It's the women and Vince. Hosin closed the door and left in the hallway.
Liam: Vince is the--
Matt: Owner.
Liam: But is he human?
Matt: He's human.
Orion: I'm going to approach him and I'm going to cast Mage Hand. I'm going to have it float right up in front of me. I'm like, now, you better start cooperating, because it seems to me that you're getting very nervous. And we don't want to do anything. Nor do we want to leave. All we want is information. I guess we want to know what you want to know, too. We want a lot of information. So start talking and stop acting like a fool.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Liam: He's sometimes hard to follow, but you don't want to fuck with him.
Orion: 15.
Matt: 15? As you do this, between you standing, he's in the process of standing up, and he was reaching for something under one of the cushions. As you do that, he glances about the room, looks over to you specifically, and back to the dragonborn, the dwarf.
Marisha: And I say, and whatever weapon you were about to brandish, you'd best wise to leave it be.
Matt: "You realize, you may have just alerted pretty much the entirety of my guard to this establishment. They'll be descending on this room soon."
Marisha: And you realize that this is only because of your doing?
Matt: He sits down on the cushion again.
Wil: And Thorbir looks at him and goes, okay. And pulls his greataxe out and leans on his greataxe.
Orion: I disperse the magic hand.
Marisha: I say, now. Our quarrel is not with you. We are not with the guard. We are not with the Bastions.
Orion: More calm.
Will: Yes, still doing a great job with the calm, there.
Marisha: I'm trying. I'm sorry. I get emotional. I'm trying to remain calm, here. Okay?
Matt: "What do you wish to know?"
Will: Once again, do you still have Lord Tyrell's possessions?
Matt: "His possessions are not under my keeping, no."
Orion: There we go. Thank you. Where are they?
Matt: "I have no idea."
Will: I want to do a perception check.
Matt: This would be insight, yeah.
Will: Insight check. Nice, where are we? Ooh, wow. 26.
Matt: 26.
Wil: What's that like?
Will: That's 29 of your rolls, strangely enough. (laughter)
Matt: Looking at you tense. He's fumbling lie after lie right now.
Will: It's just, you could easily tell.
Matt: Yeah. For you especially, all the signs are there, the quivering to his voice, his eyes darting from person to person. He's still covering.
Will: Okay, you're sitting in a room now with a whole bunch of people that want to hurt you. So it's obvious that you're lying. What do you know, or this guy and this guy are going to dragon and axe you.
Matt: "Look, what happened was unfortunate. There are things beyond your understanding or control involved here."
Wil: Oh, I don't know, we can understand a lot.
Orion: We fought a beholder before.
Marisha: Do not take us for fools who just walked in here without a clue.
Liam: I walk forward, I pull out Dagger of Venom and I drop a little bead of black down the blade and I hold it just about a centimeter under his neck. I've all run out of patience, friend. We're here to help this city and you're going to help us. Talk.
Matt: Make an intimidation check with advantage because of this whole setup here.
Marisha: Dear god, so many. Come on.
Liam: 20.
Matt: "They'll kill me if I say anything."
Will: We're going to kill you now.
Liam: Now or later, friend.
Orion: And we could protect you from them. Or it.
Matt: "This establishment. I am not the owner. I am a figurehead. Something else currently pulls the strings from behind."
Marisha: Something else?
Orion: As we said, it.
Matt: And he looks off, past you, just over your shoulder.
Liam: Perception check.
Marisha: Oh, son of a bitch.
Liam: 23.
Matt: You glance over your shoulder briefly and at this point you can see the door is partially ajar, and you can see in what little light there is a dwarven face staring through the passage that then slams the door shut quickly and you hear footsteps.
Marisha: Was that Hosin?
Will: Was that Hosin?
Matt: That was Hosin, yeah.
Marisha: Fucking Hosin.
Will: Thanks a lot, hoser!
Matt: He's shaking his head now, the blade there, as you hear the feet running off now.
Marisha: I'm going-- something tiny and fast. What's tiny and fast?
Liam: Mouse, rat.
Marisha: I'm going rat, and I'm going after Hosin.
Matt: All right. You guys watch as Keyleth all of a sudden grasps the side of her armor and then her form shrinks down to a tiny rat, then darts underneath.
Liam: I'm going to bap this guy in the head. I'm going to just flip the blade and strike him across the forehead.
Orion: As I see her do this, I open the scroll of Polymorph. I do Polymorph on myself, and I turn myself into a gadfly. And follow.
Matt: Okay. The scroll is consumed and gone. You turn into a fly and follow, as well. Two of your party members just shrunk and vanished and went off as creatures. You, go ahead and roll for an attack.
Liam: Okay, so on a surprise, it's advantage. So 19's pretty good. I'll take the 19 over the two. So that's 19 plus-- 30.
Matt: That hits, go ahead and roll sneak attack damage on that.
Liam: Okay, sneak attack damage. Is this a surprise because he didn't know it was coming?
Matt: Yes, it is.
Liam: It is? So because of my assassinate feat, then this is a critical hit. So just the sneak attack damage? Okay, four, eight, ten, 12, 15, 21, 42.
Matt: With 42? Yeah, you (whack). He's out like a light. Lights off, face on a pillow. The two women squeal in reaction. You guys, as you rush under the door, what are you guys doing?
Wil: I've been leaning over to see what he was reaching for.
Matt: As you glance over you can see what appears to be a small jeweled blade that is hidden underneath one of the cushions there. It's a curved dagger that comes to a gradual point.
Wil: I'm going to take that.
Matt: Okay. So mark down jeweled dagger in your equipment.
Will: I want to search him. I want to see if he has anything on him, in his pockets, anything.
Matt: Okay. As you are beginning to go through his body, you guys have rushed beneath, and as you can see, the dwarf, Hosin, is walking down the hallway really quickly with his robes open.
Orion: As a gadfly, can I really quickly buzz in front of him?
Matt: You pull underneath, because you had to go underneath the door to make it into the hallway. You see him, he's about 15 feet away, and as he's walking, he's looking about very nervously. He's seen one of the guards is approaching, and he looks back over and sees the rat scurrying down the hallway.
Orion: How far away is he from me?
Matt: He's about 20 feet.
Orion: How far away is the guard in front of him?
Matt: You know what, let me go ahead and pull this up. It'll give a good indicator of the circumstance here.
Marisha: He does what?
Orion: Oh god, we have a map.
Liam: Gentlemen, we need to move.
Orion: Okay, so he's right there.
Liam: Mama Cass, what have you found?
Matt: All right, you guys are currently inspecting him at the moment, as you guys are rushing through.
Orion: Oh! So I'm within 20 feet of him, whatever?
Matt: Actually no, he'd be back here. He's just rushing past. So he's 20 to 25 feet from you.
Orion: Okay. Ah. I'm going to dispel Polymorph, and I'm going to cast Silence in front of him. I'm going to silence him.
Matt: Okay. All right, so you're using him as the source?
Orion: Yes.
Matt: Okay. So as you un-Polymorph, he looks over his shoulder and sees you take this form, you go ahead and cast Silence, which has an opposition. What level spell is that? 2nd-level?
Orion: Yes. I believe so.
Matt: Okay, cool. So that creates a sphere of a 20-foot radius of silence here. So he goes and he does like a hand motion. Nothing happens. Frustrated, he continues to run. I'm going to have you guys roll initiative.
Marisha: Fucking shit. 17.
Matt: 17?
Orion: Sorry. What is that? 17.
Matt: 17 and 17. All right. So you guys will both be going first, but before we finish that, as you guys are searching the body you hear all of a sudden the sound of some sort of scuffle, a flash of some sort of energy in the hallway that's muffled between the doorway, and footsteps also happening. As you're just starting to get through his pockets you start hearing some sort of a scuffle outside of the room.
Wil: I'm gone.
Will: Me, too.
Matt: So I'll have you guys roll initiative, as well.
Wil: Four.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Not great. Nine.
Will: 11.
Wil: There's 20 faces on this. So. I mean, look right? It can happen. I know that it's possible. I've done it in my life.
Matt: All right, so as you guys are turning, we'll get to your turn in a moment. Tiberius and Keyleth, you're up first.
Marisha: Are we at the same time? I guess I'll go ahead and cast out of my beast shape as well and cast Hold Person on him as he's running away.
Matt: Okay. Cool. Just staying where you are? Are you going to stay there or are you going to move?
Marisha: Well, he's right there, right?
Matt: Right there, yeah.
Marisha: So I'm just going to try and hold him.
Matt: Okay, so you go ahead and cast Hold Person. As the spell releases, you can see the mystical shimmering cage that seems to encapsulate, seems to shrug it off.
Marisha: Because he's not a person! He's not a person. I should've fucking done Grasping Vine. Goddamn it. All right.
Matt: Do you want to move or are you staying where you are?
Marisha: Yeah, I'll follow after his ass.
Matt: All right, you can get up to pretty much right adjacent to him if you want. All right. Tiberius?
Orion: I'm going to cast Telekinesis and grab him that way.
Matt: Okay. So from where you are you go ahead and you create your telekinetic force, you rush out, and the telekinetic force seems to have no effect on the dwarf's form.
Orion: It's the rakshasa! That's him!
Matt: Do you move?
Orion: No. I yell at you, don't chase him!
Marisha: And I go, what?
Matt: Which you don't hear, because she goes [no audio].
Marisha: Yeah, I'm in the silent bubble.
Matt: Yeah, there is currently no sound coming from the center of that area.
Orion: But she can hear me.
Matt: She can hear you.
Orion: And I'm not that far. You heard me, the other way! The other way! And I move in the room with these guys.
Matt: Okay. As you guys turn, you see Tiberius come rushing into the room.
Orion: The rakshasa! Nothing works on him! And I think that's not normal!
Liam: You're speaking Draconian!
Orion: Yes, sorry! Rakshasa. I believe the dwarf is the rakshasa. I cast many things, and Keyleth is in there, nothing hit him.
Liam: You left her with him? I shove past him and go straight through the door.
Wil: You ran away from the target? Ugh. I stomp past him in my dwarfy stomps.
Matt: Hosin gets just out of the sphere of silence and then angrily does a motion with a hand and then-- (shouting)
Marisha: I knew it was going to happen!
Matt: That'll bring us next to Brother Kash. Kashaw. What do you want to do?
Will: I want to go back eight moves and catch the thing. I think what we're going to have to do now is find out where he is. Let's Locate Creature again, if we can.
Matt: Okay, this is during your turn. Is there anything you want to do?
Will: Can we locate creature, see how close he is?
Matt: How long does it take to cast Locate Creature?
Will: I believe it is one action.
Matt: Okay, so you can do that, so you mark that off as another casting of that spell.
Will: Okay.
Matt: As you rush out into the hallway and see that it's vanishing, you cast the spell for a second, you can see the direction of the creature is roughly ahead of you and you also see a door on the opposite side, this right-hand door open and close.
Marisha: He goes invisible? He's not teleporting, he's just invisible. That's a big thing.
Will: Yeah, he's here. He's still here. We can't see him.
Matt: You still have 15 feet of movement, if you want to move forward.
Will: Yeah, I would like to move forward.
Matt: Okay. So you'll get up to that point with your turn. And you gather that that's the direction of him, and that you know that's where it's going.
Will: I know where it's going, okay. So we saw the door shut. That's where he is, let's go.
Liam: Don't run blindly in there, hold on.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm going to run just up past Keyleth, I'm going to look at her as I pass. Not bad. Keep going, stop there, and now I'm going to try to sense traps.
Matt: At this point, there? Okay, so you can get up to here if you're going to use an action as well to dash.
Liam: If I use, that's fine, yeah.
Matt: Okay, as you go to talk to her no words come out.
Orion: Can I see what's going on?
Matt: No, you're in the other room, still. Everyone darted out and you're making your way out. So go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: Okay. 21.
Matt: 21. Glancing about the room, there doesn't appear to be anything that catches you as a trap. This hallway is fairly often-traversed by the clientele of this establishment, and nothing seems dangerous. That would be difficult to put in the middle of a place and still run a business.
Liam: Okay. I look at Kash and Keyleth and say-- Are we out of initiative? We're still in initiative.
Matt: We're still in initiative. Currently, for the moment, just for the sake of the pacing on this.
Wil: I'm going as far as I can down the hall toward the direction of the bad guy.
Matt: Okay. That gets you to about there. Cool, that ends that turn, at which point three of the bouncers then start pushing through the silks. One of them pushes his way here, this one pushes aside, and they come out, weapons drawn, seeing all of you there, and one of them goes [no audio]. That's their turn, but it looks like they're ready to jump into some sort of combat circumstance. That brings us to the top of the round, Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: Where'd you say the guards came from?
Matt: They came from the main room, where the silks are that separate the hallway from the main area. And you start hearing people shouting and some slight yelps and screams from the other room.People who seem freaked out by the sudden rise in energy.
Orion: What was that guy's name? Lohan?
Wil: Hosin?
Orion: Hosin?
Wil: The dwarf is Hosin. The other guy is Vince.
Orion: I just disperse Silence, and before I go out, I turn into Hosin. Alter Self.
Matt: Okay, so you use your action to cast Alter Self. You take Hosin's form, step out, closing the door behind you.
Orion: How did he sound, again?
Matt: How did he sound?
Orion: I don't remember.
Marisha: He's a dwarf.
Will: He was Scottish, but fancy Scottish.
Liam: He's glam rock. Glam rock.
Orion: Oh, right, right. What's all this noise out here? What are you bothering my friends for? Guards!
Matt: The guards look over confused and, "We heard there was a--"
Orion: Everything's fine. These are friends. Get on with your business. Get back on patrol. Make sure nothing happens or I'll have your heads.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Marisha: Oh, come on, Tiberius.
Orion: 28.
Matt: The guards look at each other. "All right, but if anything happens again, there's a problem, let us know. We'll be at the ready." They sheathe their weapons and look untrustingly to the rest of your group with your weapons currently drawn and step back--
Orion: Go on, get out.
Matt: They disappear back into the main room and they start calming down some of the other patrons who are starting to peek around them, trying to see what's going on, the action. Some look smiling and curious to see what's happening, and they're, "Go back to your tables. It's fine; there's no problem." And they disperse the energy.
Liam: Not bad, Tiberius.
Marisha: With that, I continue with the charade and loop my arm around Vax and say, shall we go into that room?
Liam: Just a moment, dear. Pull out the same poisoned blade and start walking down that hall a little further, and I want to see if I sense any traps further ahead.
Matt: Okay, to about there? Make a perception check.
Liam: Natural 20.
Wil: And balance was restored to the universe. Oh god, don't do that! Come on!
Matt: Put it away. Watch as the dice just like turns to dust.
Wil: It's the end of Raiders.
Matt: Exactly. You glance about the room as you're walking forward carefully, looking at the floorboards, looking at the tapestries on the walls, looking for anything that would be out of sorts, and your eyes very keen to find anything out of the ordinary. The room thankfully does not appear to have anything specifically trapped. It seems fairly safe.
Liam: Oh. Okay. And those are doors up there?
Matt: Yeah. Door to the right, door to the left.
Liam: Would that check include the doors themselves?
Matt: I would say with a natural 20, yes. The doors both also seem to be functional doors, not designed with any sort of trap attached.
Liam: All right. Pressing my ear to the door on my left.
Matt: Okay. Listen to it. Perception roll.
Liam: So many. Six.
Matt: Seems fairly quiet.
Orion: If we've stopped pursuing, does that take us out of initiative?
Matt: You guys are not, you guys are not currently in initiative because you're not in the thick of battle. You managed to disperse the conflict.
Liam: I want to do it at the other door as well.
Matt: All right, you step to the other door. You guys want to do anything else while you're waiting on him?
Wil: I'm just going to come, I want to get as close to him as I can and I'm ready for a fight.
Marisha: Yeah, I follow.
Orion: Thorbir. Do you have an extra sword or arm on you? Perhaps a shortsword?
Wil: I give him the jeweled dagger.
Liam: That one's a 19.
Matt: 19? Listening, you hear what sounds like a slight (creak) sound, some sort of a scooting of wood on wood, and then silence.
Liam: Kick in the door. Hard as I can.
Matt: Okay. Make a strength roll. This would be straight strength.
Liam: Wait, that's the wrong guy. 12. 14.
Orion: As he's doing that, I'm going to drink a potion of frost giant strength.
Matt: Okay. You slam your foot into the door. Oh, that was the foot that you just got healed. Oh, that's going to bruise. That's really going to bruise.
Liam: Keyleth-- Coralin, darling, could you come up here please?
Marisha: Yes? Did you stub your toe, darling?
Liam: Yeah. I think I want to get this door open quickly, please.
Wil: I'm going to hit the door with my axe.
Matt: Okay. Go for it and roll. What did you roll?
Liam: A one!
Marisha: No way! It's a lie. If it wasn't live, no one would believe it.
Wil: I rolled a one. Because it is what I do.
Matt: I'm going to test this theory. I'm going to trade you, for now, and I'm going to leave you with that dice and see if it has any impact whatsoever.
Liam: You have to throw it into the fire, Mr. Frodo!
Wil: The curse doesn't care about which die is rolled.
Matt: Which is very possible, but there needs to be--
Liam: This is like science class.
Marisha: Maybe it's because that dice was in the vicinity of Matt's hair, you'll be good.
Matt: All right.
Wil: So how much damage do I take for some reason?
Matt: So as you pull back the axe, you actually swing wildly backward, nearly hitting Vax in the process. You have to dodge out of the way as the axe embeds itself into the wood behind you.
Wil: Ugh. Again.
Matt: Axe is stuck.
Liam: I slap myself on the forehead and go ugh. Pull out thieves' pick and start on the lock.
Matt: Okay, you unclasp. As you do, you feel your throat seize suddenly as the cold liquid tends to freeze up what is normally a very warm and very fire-breeding interior to your throat. And it thaws slowly, and as you exhale you can see the mist, and suddenly your muscles pulse with energy and you feel like your physical form is embodied strength far more than you've ever felt in your body before.
Orion: With his jeweled dagger, I take out my dagger. I feel great.
Liam: The freshmaker.
Matt: There's now the angriest dwarf right now clutching two daggers as you get down with your thieves' tools.
Liam: Yeah, let's try to leave the room. That's better. That's a 24.
Matt: All right. The door swings open without issue. It's one of the easier jobs you've had.
Liam: I should've done that in the first place.
Marisha: Yeah! Should've beat it down and then.
Matt: You push open the door and find your way into what looks like a very well-adorned bedroom. There is a small table on the side where there are some books stacked up. There's a dresser on the far end that's closed. There is a canopy bed set up. There is a small end-table on the side. And the rest of the room has a nice circular rug that's thrown across the center, and there are no windows currently to this room.
Liam: I turn my head to everyone and just mouth the words-- and perception check the room.
Marisha: Can I perception check, as well?
Liam: 24.
Marisha: Can I just look to see, I want to just meditate and-- what did you just roll? 24?
Liam: 24.
Marisha: I want to see if I see any movements or brushes of cloth or anything like that.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: 19. Not as good as Vax.
Matt: All right.
Wil: How long does it take me to pull the axe out of the wall, and how far into Yakety Sax does the soundtrack get while I'm up there and with the foot and then I'm jumping on it and trying to pull it down.
Matt: We're currently hitting the one minute 15 second mark. Haven't quite pulled it out of the wood yet.
Wil: Okay, good. And my little legs are kicking underneath me while I pull it down, cursing in Dwarven.
Liam: They call me Benny. Benny Hill.
Matt: Do you wish to enter the room?
Will: I don't, actually. Because of all the sound, I wish to turn my back to the room and guard the hallway while everybody else is inside checking out the room.
Matt: Okay, you're keeping an eye out, and you do see that there's one of the guards just to the side who's just keeping an eye looking over carefully. You guys make a perception check, looking around the room, you see there is no movement, there are no curtains on the walls. There is the rug, and most everything else in here seems to be perfectly still. You catch what looks like a little bit of movement of the canopy bed, the material that's on top. There's a slight sway to it that comes to stillness you just barely catch with your keen half-elven eye.
Liam: I would like to run up the bed and stab up. Both hands. Clicking the Boots of Haste.
Matt: Okay. (bam) Click the Boots of Haste, you run and charge up into the bed and stab upward into the canopy. The material is torn asunder, this very fine, probably imported silk is carved into three separate ribbons and falls gently onto the cushion of the bed proper, revealing the hardwood ceiling above you.
Liam: I'm going to check the ceiling. There's a lot of perception. I'm all out of Luck. That's no good. That's a 14.
Matt: 14, looking about, it's solid wood, you can move your fingers along and you're standing on the bed, you can just get it within reach, and feeling along the board, it's all pretty solid.
Marisha: I want to make myself soccer field goalie this stuff with the door, in the door frame, just really trying to see if I can see any brush of dust or movement.
Matt: Okay. Keeping an eye out. You pull your axe free. Into the hallway door in front of you. Not a lot of strength. You pull it out and try the best you can to save some grace.
Will: Well done. Yeah, that was graceful.
Liam: I motion Tiberius over.
Orion: Should I do a perception on that? Nope.
Matt: That ceiling looks pretty solid.
Will: Can I turn, saving my back to the door, I turn over. I do a perception check.
Matt: Go for it. You step over, you glance past Keyleth.
Will: Oh my god, one.
Wil: Stop trying to steal my thing, you guys.
Matt: You glance over and you're more distracted by the fact that Keyleth is doing this awkward field goal thing in the door to you for no reason, and you forget what you were in the middle of doing.
Marisha: I'm trying to make myself big.
Matt: There appears to be no exit from the ceiling.
Wil: Can I enter the room?
Matt: You may. You push past the confused cleric.
Wil: Okay, so I look around. I look at the rug. I sigh heavily. And I pull the rug.
Matt: You pull the rug, revealing a wooden floor. Plain slats.
Marisha: You thought that was going to be good!
Will: With a point, too!
Matt: You were never a fan of elves or half-elves before, but this one's really starting to dig into you a little.
Wil: I'll make a perception check because we could total up all my rolls and I'd have five.
Liam: Come on. Hey!
Wil: Look at that. That's actually better. 20.
Matt: 20. You pull the rug back. There's nothing there, and you look about at the rest of the folks with a heavy sigh. But the rug was on the right track. Everyone was keeping high. Looking beneath the bed, you can see what looks to be, in the shadow, some little bit of elevated wood that catches your attention.
Wil: I just, under the bed!
Orion: Oh! I'll motion over there.
Liam: We're not silenced, right? So I'm yanking off any fancy clothes I have on and I'm pulling my Cloak of Elvenkind out. I'm putting it over. And I spider under the bed and check it for traps.
Marisha: I pick up his clothes and I put them in the Bag of Holding.
Will: Oh my god, she's folding the clothes. We're in the middle of this, and she's folding the clothes.
Marisha: They might come in handy later.
Liam: 25 for looking for traps.
Matt: Okay. Well, it's a good thing you rolled high enough perception, because as you spider underneath, your first hand goes underneath and you nearly tumble and you catch yourself. There is a five-foot-wide hole in the ground right beneath this bed. And as you catch yourself, you can feel a little bit of wind slowly drifting up from underneath. There's some sort of airflow coming up from underneath this bed where this hole is, and you feel over and you can see that little bit of wood that you saw looking forward is the top of a makeshift ladder that is currently fastened to the side of this tunnel that disappears beneath the room.
Liam: Is there dim light down there?
Matt: It is pitch black. You can see with the dim light from your low-light vision a little ways into it, about 20 or so feet from the angle you're at, because you're not looking directly in. And even just glancing over the side it continues down for quite a while.
Will: And it's big enough to fit all of us if we wanted to go.
Matt: Independently, yes. One person would go down. It would be single file, of course, because it's a tight tunnel.
Will: Only one way to go, right?
Liam: You can see in pitch black, right?
Wil: I have darkvision, 60 feet.
Liam: Is that dim or dark?
Wil: Dark.
Matt: Darkvision, you can see within a short distance of pitch black and then a larger distance at low light, so yeah.
Wil: I'll go.
Matt: All right. So we'll put in order here, who's going down next? All right. And after Vax?
Marisha: I'll follow my husband.
Matt: Keyleth. That's weird. Tiberius?
Orion: Before we go down, I'm going to take off my outer-- no, I can't take off anything because that's all my gear. Never mind. I don't do that, but before we go down I cast Stoneskin on myself. I cast that right now.
Matt: Okay. As your form shimmers for a second and you see-- you notice this too, Kashaw-- his scales almost seem to protrude into earthy spikes and then form and solidify, almost like his body becomes its own suit of armor.
Will: Okay, that's cool.
Orion: Even though I'm still a dwarf, though.
Will: I'm going to go, but I'm going to cast Freedom of Movement on myself before I go down there.
Matt: Okay. As you do, even with the encumbrance of the armor you're wearing, you feel like your form is a little more agile and you're ready for anything that might try and stop your passage. You guys begin making your way down, with Thorbir leading the way. You descend for a good three to four minutes, you gather probably a hundred feet or more down, rung by rung, and there are a few that you reach that are a little rickety. About a hundred feet down, one hits your foot and snaps, but you manage to catch yourself on it, but you get the feeling this ladder is probably not meant to hold someone of your heavy physical form.
Wil: Largesse?
Matt: Largesse, you could use, yes. One by one, you make your way down until eventually you're, you begin to see towards the edge of your darkvision, floor finally begins to appear and rise towards you. You step off the ladder into what appears to be a small circular area that leads into another ten-foot-by-ten-foot tunnel, ten by 15 foot up, and continues forward. This is very natural carved earth, it's not smoothed stone, it just looks like a tunnel that was mined out of the floor.
Will: Is it still dark?
Matt: It is still dark, there is no light source currently. And you all eventually make your way down.
Will: Is there anything loose down there that I can grab a hold of?
Matt: You can't see anything. Mr. Human, you are in pitch-black darkness.
Will: Well, that's why I'm wondering if I feel around underneath me to try to find some kind-- do I find a loose stone? Do I find a pebble? Can I find anything to grab?
Matt: Reach down, yeah, you manage to find a couple of small stones.
Orion: As he's milling about, Light.
Will: That's what I was going to do, but he beat me to it. Thank you.
Matt: So you reach down and you find a stone, you pick it up, you begrudgingly grab your holy symbol, and as you begin to recite your cantrip incantation, a flash of white light comes gleaming off the top of the dragonborn sorcerer's staff.
Orion: Dagger. Because I have two daggers in my hands.
Matt: That's true. One of the daggers is now glowing. The jeweled one, twice as pretty when it's emanating torchlight.
Will: Nice. Thanks for the warning, by the way.
Orion: Sorry, I usually just do it when it's dark.
Wil: This tunnel goes in just one direction?
Matt: One direction.
Wil: I'm walking down the tunnel.
Matt: Okay. So we'll say for the sake of marching order, who all is going in after Thorbir? In what order?
Will: I'll go next.
Matt: All right. Following Thorbir.
Liam: I'll go behind Kash.
Will: I don't need this at all, but I just wanted to play with it. That's me right there.
Orion: I'll follow. I'll keep on Thorbir's six.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: I'll stay 15 feet behind him.
Matt: 15 feet behind? All right. And Keyleth, you continue up that way. All right, so that'll be the marching order.
Wil: So I've got my axe out. And may I make a perception check to see what I see? To just see if I can pick up footprints or motion or whatever?
Matt: This would be more tracking, if you're looking for footprints, so that'd be wisdom.
Wil: Okay. Just a straight wisdom?
Matt: Survival.
Wil: Survival, hang on. Not my system. Eight.
Matt: Eight? Okay. It's hard to tell. It looks like this area is not heavily traversed, and what little sign of footprints there are scattered enough that it's hard to make out a specific print. But I mean, they have been traveled before.
Liam: I'm looking over Thorbir's head and looking for traps as he walks from behind. 22.
Matt: 22? All right. As you guys are walking forward and going through this, you get about 40 feet forward before you catch that there is a slight divot, a small drop in the dirt, and one looks like a section of intentionally placed plate of some kind.
Liam: Wait a tick. I'm going to go up to the edge of it and try to inspect it and see if I can find a trigger or see how it works. Six. And that is, what is that, perception?
Matt: Are you checking to see how it works?
Liam: I want to see if I can disarm.
Matt: To disarm it. Okay, that would be with your thieves' tools. So this would be a dexterity plus your thieves' tools, so plus seven.
Liam: That's a 19.
Matt: 19? Okay. As you go to the plate, you stop and look up at the walls to the side, and to each side of the wall you can see these tiny little holes, these little quarter-sized, gold-piece-sized tunnels bored multiple places on both sides of this wall. And you take the plate, you realize this is a pressure plate-based trap, and taking one dagger, you slightly lift it. The second one, you eventually find beneath where the trigger apparatus is, and you gingerly cut each part of these spring-loaded triggers until eventually the plate rises more and more and more and you remove the last bit, the plate tips over, and the trap itself is disarmed.
Will: Nice work.
Orion: I mean, well done, rogue.
Wil: So I keep going down. I want to hit a thing.
Matt: All righty.
Wil: That's not a wall.
Matt: There is that. All right. Pushing forward, continuing for another 30-40 feet, do you want to check traps again?
Liam: Again. 12.
Matt: 12? Okay. Pushing forward for a period of time, there doesn't appear to be any change. There are no more divots. You're keeping a very close eye for the traps. And as you're walking forward with your axe. As you're stepping forward you get this weird tickle across your nose, like a spider web of some kind that catches you, and you instinctively reach up and brush it away from your nose. As your finger presses against it, it's much sturdier than a spider web. It's a metallic wire, and as you push away (tink). You hear that slight noise. Tiberius, behind you, you hear a grinding of stone, and a loud slam sounds, like something extremely heavy just dropped behind you.
Marisha: Run!
Matt: You guys glance over your shoulder and you see what looks to be a fairly rounded boulder--
Orion: I dispel Alter Self immediately so I have longer-ass legs.
Matt: Well, Alter Self is gone if you're casting Stoneskin, because that's a concentration spell. Oh, that. But that only carries it for a few rounds. It's been a longer time than that.
Orion: It's been 15 minutes. Time has passed. Never mind. I don't do shit.
Matt: But yeah, don't worry about that. But the stone boulder just--
Marisha: Indiana Jones, motherfuckers!
Matt: Picking up speed with the slow decline of this room. All of you guys, what are you doing?
All: Run!
Matt: You're bolting forward.
Orion: I cast Fly on myself and fly.
Matt: You cast Fly, pushing forward, and you guys get a little speed, but you've noticed the boulder's started to gather steam as it continues down, and the pathway you guys are running is going at a heavier and heavier decline as you push forward.
Orion: Oh! As I'm flying, I turn around with my ring and I cast Slow on the boulder.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a-- actually, no. This is interesting. Let me see if Slow would have a direct effect on this boulder. That's something that happens right now that I didn't consider. I love when that happens. Unfortunately, it is not a creature and actually it affects the physical metabolism and muscle use of an individual. This is just a solid structured object. As you release the spell, you see the air around it poof, and drift a little slower, and the boulder seems to stutter for a moment, but continues to push forward. That was your action.
Orion: Damn it.
Liam: I would like to cast all of my spells in succession for the next ten minutes.
Matt: I assume you're going full sprint? Okay, so pushing forward, you all push forward, Tiberius who has stopped to turn around and cast the spell is not at a full dash, so he trails behind. The boulder is currently gaining on Tiberius.
Orion: I Gandalf it.
Matt: So you turn around. You're continuing to fly forward. So you guys just turn to push forward. Tiberius, the boulder is nearly upon you now. What are you going to do?
Orion: Oh! Awesome. Is it at least ten to 15 feet away from me?
Matt: It is about ten to five feet away from you, you can see it cresting--
Orion: Sweet. As I'm now frustrated, I cast a 5th-level spell, and I will cast my Obelisk of Iron, three in a row behind me.
Matt: Okay. All right. You burned that spell. All of a sudden, the room behind you, out of the stone, pockets of iron ore or whatever material is beneath the earth behind you is brought together into a liquid mass and then shoots up in the center of the hallway behind you. With each one of these pillars slamming into the wall, you guys hear these three multiple explosions behind you, and for a brief second you fear the worst for Tiberius' current status. Immediately following that, you hear the impact of stone against iron, and you see the obelisks bend with this horrible creaking sound.
Marisha: Keep running!
Orion: That should stop it right there.
Marisha: I don't know.
Matt: The sound of the rolling has stopped.
Marisha: I still don't trust it. Let's just all get out of this hole.
Orion: I keep Gandalfing.
Marisha: It could give way at any moment.
Liam: Let's walk. Shall we walk? I think we should walk.
Wil: I like to walk.
Matt: Okay. You guys continue moving forward, the decline getting a little more difficult to traverse as your feel yourselves now having to feel your arms across the wall or use it for balance to make sure you don't just fall. Also, the moisture in the air begins to grow more and more thick. Some source of liquid some point down in the future has permeated what was originally dusty, dry air with liquid of some kind, and the air itself grows more and more rancid in scent. It smells like refuse or rot. It's hard to describe, and it's old. It's musky, it's terrible, and it grows stronger the farther you go. As you continue pushing forward, you also feel that the dusty ground is becoming more and more mud-like.
Wil: Is it making my hair poof out and look stupid?
Matt: A little bit, yeah. You spent all morning treating it and it's undoing everything you did.
Wil: This is why I lived in the mountains.
Will: Is there any light? Any light source? There's no natural light? We're not walking towards any type of light?
Matt: It's just a tunnel into darkness right now.
Marisha: Does there appear to be any type of plant life?
Matt: From what you can tell, there is no plant life at all whatsoever. The moisture gathered on the walls you can now see are dripping. The condensation has given this tunnel more of a mineral-pocketed look, and the ground is getting more sludgy with each step.
Wil: I want to make a-- I'm sorry, you're not done.
Marisha: I was just going to ask  are the walls stone or chiseled-out rock?
Matt: It feels like it's chiseled-out, hard earth that has been packed and supported with either small wooden things that are inset to make sure it doesn't collapse at some point, a lot of that has either fallen through.
Will: So it could collapse at any time.
Matt: Well, if you do any severe damage to its structure. It would probably be a bad idea.
Marisha: Right, like drop a boulder down it.
Matt: It's not a mine shaft.
Marisha: What were you going to say?
Wil: I would like to make a-- you tell me what check it is. What I want to do is to look down into this thick mud stuff. What I'm looking for are tracks, and if I do well enough, I want to see if I can get a sense of how fast the thing was going. Has it slowed down because it's comfortable, or is it still running?
Matt: Okay, make another survival check.
Wil: So I'm underground.
Matt: Actually, as a dwarf I'll give you advantage on that, so roll again. That makes sense, this is your place.
Liam: Well, the higher one was four. The lower one was a one.
Will: The higher one was a four?
Wil: Remember what I told you about the Wheaton dice curse? I'm sorry. Because no one will believe me. No one ever believes me.
Marisha: He's been taking pictures of all his fails so everyone believes it.
Will: At this point, I'd be amazed that he hasn't helped us in any way, shape, or form, and cast a perception check of my own.
Matt: Sure.
Will: There we go. So let's see, we are at 21.
Matt: 21, okay.
Will: You are useless. For the love of god.
Matt: As a pre-existing member of the Slayer's Take and the man who was currently set to be the leader of your group, you're beginning to wonder if this guild is the kind of thing you really want to be joining, at this point.
Wil: I haven't been in a fight yet.
Matt: True. But looking down you can see there are no tracks, actually. This line has not been traversed in quite some time, and the smoothness of it says that whatever came through here did not leave any footprints.
Will: At all?
Matt: No. Also, as you guys continue, you reach a point where, especially with your heavy armor-- go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Marisha: Oh no.
Liam: You got this.
Will: Ten. So wait. 13.
Matt: 13? Okay. You're stepping forward, keeping an eye out, and you look back at the group and take a step and your foot slips out from under you. (smack) You hit the slime and begin to slide down the tunnel as part of the decline. You guys watch as your cleric Goonies-style slide vanishes into the darkness.
Will: It's our time. It's our time down here.
Wil: Hey, you guys!
Matt: Kashaw has vanished into the darkness and you hear, (screams).
Will: (screams)
Orion: As I see this happening, I run over and go like, this looks like a lot of fun!
Matt: As you lunge through the air, because you're flying, still.
Orion: Oh. Has ten minutes passed? I thought ten minutes? It only lasts for like ten minutes.
Matt: Oh, then yeah, it's faded. So you just slide after?
Orion: Yeah, I go, this looks like a lot of fun. And I go and I slide.
Matt: Tiberius slides after, body first across the slime.
Marisha: And then I see Tiberius go and I go, (whoops). And I go, too.
Matt: All right. Three of your party have just vanished into the darkness, hoping that fate will take them to some place of pillows and feathers.
Liam: I think I'd rather walk as long as I can.
Wil: I think I'm with you.
Matt: All right. You guys both make dexterity saving throws.
Wil: 16.
Liam: 16.
Matt: Wow. You manage to slowly make your way down this tunnel, almost-- what's that?
Orion: My dex was 18, by the way.
Matt: It doesn't matter; you jumped into this. You intentionally fell.
Liam: We can't even hear you anymore. You're miles away.
Matt: Yeah. You guys slowly begin to make your way down the tunnel, as you can't even hear them anymore. You guys, one after another, sliding down the slide and grime going past you. You smell in the air what smells like vegetable matter that's been long, long falling in compost, along with what smells like rancid feces mixed with mold. It's this terrible continuously growing scent.
Orion: I put up my nose scales.
Matt: Until eventually, out of the darkness, because you're ahead of everyone, you're outside of the range of his Light spell, the slime stops and there's just air.
Liam: Hey, you guys!
Matt: And a few moments of this air rushing past you as you're immediately stopped with a wet sound as you impact hard into some sort of heavy spongy matter. Thankfully, because it's spongy, you only suffer four points of damage, so you can mark that somewhere on the sheet. Mainly just from the way you landed and your armor sticks into where the plates are and just the impact was bad for your body. But you're now in darkness, looking up, sitting on what feels like you're on some sort of strange compost heap. Looking up, you see in the darkness this small light begin to appear, and you see this dragonborn--
Orion: I'm laughing, by the way.
Will: Can I try to move, since I hear him laughing, can I try to move out of the way?
Matt: You roll out of the way as the two of you scream down. With the light that now shines you can see this is a cylindrical cistern of some kind. It is a tunnel that is very tall, and you both impact into the same heap.
Liam: Shitter's full!
Orion: As we land, I look around. Oh, that was a lot of fun. I cast Prestidigitation three times in a row and clean us all up.
Matt: You try and clean what you can, but you guys are like knee to nearly waist deep as you get up and move around--
Orion: Or at least our faces.
Matt: Your faces are clean.
Will: What a wonderful smell you've discovered.
Matt: And it's a terrible smell. This room is quite honestly a mixture of long-rotting food, of dried vegetation that has been discarded here for whatever reason, a lot of it's hay and thatch that has been just rotting and molding for god knows how many years, and quite honestly, feces from some indeterminate entity.
Marisha: I use my Druidcraft to take out some of my sage and light it and spread some of my sage around.
Orion: You're making it worse. Now it's smoky and smells. Prestidigitate it out of my face.
Matt: As you guys are doing this, you guys are making your way down the tunnel. And you have a ways to catch up to them, you do hear (squeaking). You hear this, and as you look around with the light you can see little bits of movement leaping through this heap.
Liam: Rat horde.
Will: Rats are going to be wonderful.
Matt: Then suddenly, thrusting out of some of this heap, you see a large arm or tendril, brownish-tan in color just slams onto the side of it.
Orion: Oh shit. I go invisible.
Will: You've got to help-- where the hell did he go?
Matt: At which point you now see emerging from it two of these giant tendrils, which at the end are covered in these long, teeth-like spines, grasping the sides of this stone cylinder, pulling itself out of the refuse, shaking as it pulls itself forward. You now see the body that contains it with one third central tendril that rises up, what looks like creepy eyes or nose-holes that are looking around and glancing at both of you, and you see emerging beneath that the body, this large, eight- to ten-foot-thick, wide, covered-in-slime body that is this gargantuan toothy maw that opens up with a tongue that lolls out. And that's where we're going to go ahead and end today's session. We'll pick it up next week right where we left off. You guys slowly making your way down the tunnel. We'll pick up with that next time.
Will: Toothy maw is where we end it!
Matt: Yep. Toothy maw.
Marisha: Tentacley, brown, twitchy eyeball, toothy maw. That's all we know?
Matt: That's all you know. And some sort of strange sound and other small things moving.
Wil: Do you give out prizes for the most ones rolled in a night, because I'm pretty sure I won that.
Matt: I do, and for that prize I give you a fancy yellow d20.
Wil: Oh! Thank you. That's great. Does it have all ones on it?
Matt: Shit. Yeah. How did that happen?
Marisha: Oh, that's been your problem the whole time.
Liam: Congratulations, you've won imploding self-esteem.
Wil: That stacks, right? I already have that. I mean, it would be silly if I couldn't-- is that an ongoing? Because that's a feat I took when I started.
Matt: Yeah, yeah, I tried to tell you not to take that but, you know, character flavor is important.
Wil: Listen, it's a class feature. It's an actor's class feature.
Liam: After enough time, you can suck people into it.
Matt: Well, guys, thank you so much!
Wil: Thanks, Matt. That was amazing.
Matt: That was a fun first round. Got one more session with you guys.
Marisha: Yes, and what did you think of your first game?
Will: It was incredible, nothing should be this fun. Seriously, it was so much fun. Yeah. Awesome.
Matt: Well guys, thank you, I'm so glad you could join us and I'm excited for next week. And thank you guys for tuning in, hope you're enjoying it as much as we are. We can't stay too long, unfortunately, I have a flight to catch very soon to fly out to a convention in Columbus, Ohio. Zac, I think, is around here with whatever we got in business we've got to get down to with all you awesome people. Thank-yous.
Zac: We'll save gifts for next week.
Matt: We'll have to save gifts for next week when we're not quite in such a huge rush, so for those of you who sent stuff, we'll get into those next week. Thank you so much. So for people who donated, by the way, once again donated to 826LA, which is our charity, which is a fantastic charity that takes young children and young adults and teaches them creative writing and writing skills and they do wonderful work. And you guys have been fantastic and donations go to help that charity. Let's see, we got here--
Zac: Start 813.
Matt: 813, all right. Lonsolo, donated $25, thank you so much, Lon. Descendfromgrace donated $25, thank you so much Descend. Gelatinousdude, oh. Makes me happy. Donated $20. Thank you so much, that's amazing. Undim1 donated $31, thank you so much Undim. Wheelyfactoids donated $50. That's amazing, Wheelie. Once again, good to see you. That's amazing that you keep donating, I really appreciate that. Dafeedthedargenzeen--
Zac: There might be more there.
Matt: Dot-dot-dot-dot-dot, take the ellipses, it makes it sound cool. Donated $100, thank you so much, that's an incredible donation. Escherbacon donated $25, thank you so much Escherbacon. Bacon. Moonsol37 donated $20. Thank you, Moonsol. That's incredible. Norkelad donated $75. Thank you, Norkelad. Markinthepark donated $50. Thank you, Mark. That's amazing. Freelander20 donated $15. That's incredible. JDI35 donated $25. You're amazing! Missbeezus donated $25. Missbeezus, that's amazing. Heart goes out to you. Shepardson donated $20. Shepardson, thank you so much, Shepardson. Turdle, 1337turdle, donated $50. It's got leet-speech, threes. Thank you so much. T-threefrulthree. Williantw, t-w, donated $25. Thank you Willian. Salazarjack donated $82.60, keeping with the 826 theme. That's awesome. Clever. Nightraver01 donated $100. Thank you, Nightraver. Keep raving. NZV5005 donated $20. Thank you so much, NZV5005. That's incredible. Okay. Got a flight to catch. Wakedonorpg donated $43.21. Descending numbers, I like it. Thank you so much. Nausicaa451 donated $10. Thank you so much for that. Killerpenguin donated $25. Thank you, Killerpenguin. Damienopyro donated $30. Thank you, Pyro. Bryancantlogintotwitch-- I'm sorry, Bryan, that's pretty rough-- donated $30. That's fantastic. Gatorcane donated $100. Thank you, Gatorcane. It's got a nice texture to that cane. Magnusrogar donated $40. Kill things, Tiberius. Get it done. Foxyforce has donated $60.39. Thank you, Foxy. Atherrex donated $50. Thank you so much, Atherrex. Monos20 donated $20. Thank you so much. UncleAni donated $15. It's appreciated. Gargantran1-- eyes aren't working, but that's your new name-- donated $50. Thank you so much. PFWscott donated $12. Thank you. Jarmund donated $100. That's incredible. Joker396 donated $55.55. Thank you so much for all your donations.
Orion: Yeah, all this and again, thank you for doing this because portions of this goes to an amazing charity and we love all the people at 826.
Marisha: We're going to be doing a video very soon going to 826 and telling you guys all about it. But yes, they're a great charity, so yes.
Matt: Give to them the hefty amount that you guys have contributed over this time towards their charity. It's fascinating.
Will: You guys have incredible fans. This whole week leading up to this on Twitter and everything, you guys have amazing fans.
Marisha: Now you guys get the fanart!
Will: Sorry about what?
Matt: Sorry about the DDOS attack. That's how we say hi.
Will: No, seriously, it's amazing.
Zac: Don't even mention things like that. Don't mention those things.
Wil: It's more of a hug.
Zac: Thank you everybody for helping us get to 6k. They've already started a stupid e-mail chain talking about what musical songs they're going to sing.
Marisha: That's amazing. Oh, and guys, Mary Elizabeth came back to visit and watch. So she did return.
Mary: Hi!
Marisha: She's back!
Mary: And a special guest.
Steve: I'm just going to troll. Hi.
Marisha: Steven Blum, everybody.
Will: Starscream himself is here.
Marisha: Yes, he is.
Matt: Thank you so much for coming to watch, I hope you enjoyed yourselves. Yeah, it's an incredible time, looking forward to the session next week. Are there any other closing comments you guys want to bust out tonight?
Marisha: I don't want to wait a week.
Wil: Really fun and really weird to be on this side of that screen. So odd for me, and just to play a character who's so different from the characters I used to play before I DMed all the time. It's weird to be a guy who just doesn't think about stuff and like is not particularly charismatic and anyway, people who have thought about playing or want to play RPGs, when we were rolling up this guy, I was so excited when I got-- what did I roll for him? Anyway he's got a minus one. I rolled an eight for his charisma, and I was so excited because I was like, well now I know exactly who this guy is. I know exactly who he is and it's going to be really fun to be him. It was really great, it was really fun to come and I found out about your game because Liam directed me in a voice session. I want to be on your show so much.
Matt: Well, now it is done. Dreams do come true. Then we smash them.
Will: Now roll a one and get us out of here.
Wil: I'll try, but since it's not going to count, I don't know.
Liam: It'll be a 20. 19. (laughter)
Matt: Thanks so much. We'll see you next week, 7PM on the Twitch stream. Have a wonderful week.
Marisha: Bye!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to Critical Role, the show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors get together, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons. My name is Matthew Mercer, I'm the Dungeon Master of the game. Welcome, new folks who haven't seen this before, hope you're not too lost, and returning Team Hooman and Critter fans, welcome back, we love having you and let's get this evening on the road. We have some announcements and things to talk about before the game actually kicks in, so we'll first pass it over here to our fantastic overlord to get that kicked off.
Zac: That's right, you get to see my ugly face for a couple minutes while I get through a couple quick announcements, guys. A lot of you have been asking me on Twitter and in the chat room when you will get to see Critical Troll? That will be up on the website tomorrow night at 8PM Pacific Standard Time. So go over to the website at 8PM, you'll be able to see that and I'm sure you guys will secretly pass around the youtube link and stuff.
Matt: Watch me go crazy.
Zac: Currently you can find Laura's article on GeekandSundry.com.
Laura: What?!
Zac: That came out today, so make sure to head over to the website and read that. And I know a lot of you are probably wondering about D&Diesel. Which is apparently the name, D&Diesel.
Laura: Yeah, it is.
Zac: Got a ring to it.
Taliesin: Hashtag D&Diesel.
Zac: Hashtag D&Diesel. That will be showing tonight during the midpoint of the show. Now, there's a couple special things with this showing, you need to watch it live. If you think that you're going to come back later, watch it on the rebroadcast, and you're gonna go dip out for a pee break or pizza break, whatever, don't! Stick around because after it shows tonight live, you will be unable to see it again until Monday on the website. So it will be cut from the rebroadcasts.
Laura: Whoa.
Zac: And I'm very sorry to our European audience. I'm really sorry about that, but that's just unfortunately how PR deals work sometimes and that's just the way it is. But, it'll only be--
Matt: It's only a few days!
Zac: Yeah, it'll only be a few days and you'll get to see a lot more on Monday. A longer cut and that's why it's a website exclusive. It's longer, it'll have some tightening and all sorts of other stuff. But, you guys get a special treat tonight with a preview showing, and it's still a long preview, it's like 20-25 minutes or something like that.
Laura: Whoa, it is?
Matt: Yeah.
Zac: It's pretty cool.
Matt: That'll be exciting.
Zac: So there's that. Tomorrow we have a very special event happening for all of those that joined us for the Extra Life campaign, thank you so much, and a lot of you guys were here as well.
Matt: Yes indeed.
Zac: And thank you for donating, getting us well past our goal, and as some of you may remember during Critical Troll, Felicia mentioned that if we reached a certain goal, she would come on, on a scheduled date and play Rock Band 4. So that's happening, tomorrow.
Matt: Yup!
Zac: We are having a battle of the bands from 5 to 7PM Pacific Standard Time, and Mr. Mercer here is going to be playing the drums.
Matt: Yeah, I'm drumming for them, which, first off, I haven't played since probably 2011, and I'm a little rusty.
Zac: Have you seen your competition?
Matt: No, but I assume they're gonna destroy me.
Zac: They're really good.
Matt: That's okay. I will narrate my failure.
Zac: There we go!
Matt: In a way that will still be as engrossing. (laughs)
Zac: And there's been a Twitter battle happening between the two teams.
Matt: Oh really?
Zac: You're kinda walking into the fire, my friend.
Matt: That's okay.
Zac: Felicia's put a lot on the line for you guy's team.
Matt: That's cool. I got fire resistance. That's fine.
Zac: Okay cool, cool. That'll be happening tomorrow 5PM to 7PM Pacific Standard Time, you guys should tune in for that. We are still going to be donating to Extra Life, but we're not really going to be pushing it, it's more of a reward for you guys for helping us get past that $75k goal.
Matt: Yes.
Zac: Our next giveaway is going to be at 9,500, we're getting pretty close. The other real quick little announcement I have as far as subs go, is last week you guys were able to get our sub train up to 420 subs, now that counts resubs and new subs. So we have the sub train going right now, I believe it's well over a hundred--
Matt: Woof.
Zac: If we break last week's record of 420 which I think they purposely stopped at 420--
Matt: (laughs) Of course they did.
Zac: Hey guys, don't go. We will do a giant giveaway of board games, D&D stuff signed by the cast, signed by the rest of the Twitch crew. We'll throw in a couple video games, t-shirts, all sorts of stuff. Plus Ivan has said if we reach that goal for TPK, which those that watched last Monday, thank you so much.
Matt: Yeah!
Zac: It's a new show on Monday nights where our Twitch cast plays as themself in Outbreak Undead. Last week, some of you saw the Twitch cast leave me for dead outside of the studio. And a lot of people thought that I might come back if given the opportunity. Well, if we break that sub goal, Ivan has said that I will come back and probably wreak havoc in some way for our Twitch host that thought they could get away with leaving me for dead in the middle of the street.
Matt: (laughs) That's awesome.
Zac: So let's break 420. The last announcement, guys, is just a real quick community announcement. We like to pride ourselves at Geek & Sundry for being a very open and loving and warm community, and that's absolutely the most important thing to us and to Felicia and to a lot of our viewers, and I know last week things got a little heated in the chat room, and we just want to remind everyone that we don't get the opportunity to talk to you much during the show, but we want to make sure you guys stay as positive as possible or I will have to throw the hammer down on you.
Matt: Shit. All right. There you--
Zac: That's pretty much it.
Matt: You know, just goes to say that this community is built on so many great, positive people and such a wonderful sense of community, and a big huge thanks and please share appreciation for our fantastic mods who work consistently and constantly throughout the day.
Zac: (sings) For free.
Matt: For free.
Zac: (laughs) You guys are crazy.
Matt: Through our chatroom, which if you've watched, as you're now seeing and have seen previous episodes, is I can only assume readable by super mastermind computers at this point. So, you guys do an amazing job, it's really appreciated and to all of you guys out there in the community, keep that positivity, keep that understanding, and enjoy our game for its ups, for its downs, for our good character choices, bad character choices. It's all an experience in a story that we're all having together at the same time. So, kick along, hold on, and keep smiling.
Zac: Well said, Matt.
Matt: Yeah, thank you.
Zac: We love you guys, kind of. (all laugh)
Matt: I do. I love you. We do.
Zac: I'm on the fence.
Matt: He's a-- you know.
Laura: We love you so much!
Matt: It's a thing. So yeah, so, couple other announcements for you guys. What's our sub count right now? When's our next one hundred?
Crew: 9.5k, 9,500.
Matt: At 9,500 we will be giving away our signed photo and signed art piece by Kit Buss to a random person who's active in the chat. So next time we hit that goal, we'll have that giveaway, which is awesome. Once again, Extra Life has been our big charity push right now. Everyone who's given, thank you so much. So, so much, and if ever you want to be a part of helping that out we have the information there available for you, it goes to a really great cause. Let's see, Sam will be here shortly. Unfortunately, we're down a Tiberius tonight. However, yesterday was Orion's birthday, so feel free to go ahead and wish him a happy birthday on Twitter.
Laura: Aw.
Liam: Happy birthday, Orion.
Travis: Happy birthday, buddy.
Matt: Happy birthday, Orion. But yeah, Sam should be here shortly. And, let's see, do we have any project announcements?
Liam: Just a project announcement?
Matt: Or any other announcements you've got.
Liam: Hey, yesterday I started directing for the World of Warcraft. So that's pretty good.
Laura: You did? (all cheer)
Matt: Congratulations, buddy.
Laura: That's so great!
Liam: I think it's gonna be ongoing and it was really nice.
Travis: Big deal.
Marisha: I'm so excited for you!
Laura: That's super exciting.
Matt: That's awesome.
Liam: Then anything right now?
Marisha: I'm so fangirly.
Matt: Anything you want.
Liam: All right, I also want to thank Pupgames from Twitter for sending me this.
Laura: Oh yeah.
Liam: Look at this. It came in the mail separate and I have a hood and now I can just, you know, I can go like that and no one will see me so thank you, Pupgames.
Matt: That's awesome!
Liam: Let me set it here. I haven't figured out how to wear it exactly, but I will.
Laura: (laugh)
Matt: (laugh)
Travis: Take all your clothes off and then figure it out.
Matt: It's warm on the chesticles.
Liam: And then, I just want to take a minute, I said thank you on Twitter, but I just want to thank everybody who for the last week has sent me well-wishes and today who has sent me well-wishes, and a lot of the Critter community got together and made a video just to, you know, just support, support me in-- I am having a hard moment in my personal life, not gonna get into it, but you guys kind of took my breath away today for real. So, thank you very much.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: We have the best fans.
Matt: This whole community is brilliant, so you guys.
Taliesin: So many of them in New York and in San Francisco this week, where we've been all over the place.
Marisha: Yes. Shout out to our New York and San Fran.
Matt: Yeah, we hit both coasts.
Marisha: San Francisco. Both coasts.
Matt: Yeah, in the same week. It's crazy. Yeah, we all went to New York Comic Con. We had a panel that went really well. We had a bunch of great critters come out and Team Hooman folks come and sit in the audience, ask questions. We had some fun banter back and forth. We gave out 'Critical Rolls,' these cookies that were our little meal deal.
Taliesin: That were neither critical nor rolls, really to be fair.
Matt: Right.
Taliesin: But they were good.
Marisha: But we're into it.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Imaginary rolls.
Marisha: Imaginary rolls.
Matt: Much like our realm is imaginary.
Taliesin: I may have hit a couple people in the face, for which I greatly apologize.
Laura: I definitely hit somebody in the face with one of those rolls.
Taliesin: Yeah, I like split someone's lip.
Matt: Completely unintentional, I'm sure.
Laura: I'm so sorry.
Liam: Her aim is excellent. She never misses.
Laura: Yes, I am an archer.
Travis: She Hunter's Marks that shit.
Laura: I Hunter's Marked your face.
Taliesin: And we played golf. It was quite nice.
Matt: Also, thank you guys for coming out to that event. Also, for those who came to see us at Forbidden Planet in New York, we had a great turnout, and that comic shop wasn't quite expecting what they were in for.
Travis: We weren't expecting that.
Matt: We weren't expecting, but they especially were like halfway through like, "Who are you guys?! What is happening?!"
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Travis: We are legion.
Marisha: We freaked out our Uber driver.
Matt: Yeah we did.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: We pulled up and got out of the car and all of a sudden it was like hundreds of people cheering and we all went "What?!" and the Uber driver went "What?!?"
Taliesin: I think his exact words is, "Is this for us?" (all laugh)
Matt: And even we were like "I don't know."
Laura: I don't know!
Matt: You guys were amazing. Thank you for that.
Marisha: I feel like we need to find and screen cap in the thread where we were like, 20, 30 people, guys. Let's not get our hopes up.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Well, that's who got back to me, was like, I don't know, 40ish.
Laura: Yeah, we thought it was gonna be like 40 people.
Matt: Yeah, that was a good turnout.
Laura: That-- pretty great. Was great. Pretty great.
Liam: It was pretty metal.
Taliesin: The internet went, nope.
Matt: Yeah. Other announcements  Coming up in I think the next couple weeks or so, the release of the Minecraft Story Mode.
Marisha: (whispers) Yeah.
Travis: (sings) Yeah.
Matt: Comes out on Xbox. Completely a fun show. We went to the Archlight Let's Play of it they did, which was really a lot of fun. I play the characters Aiden and Otis in it.
Marisha: Hundreds of screaming children. Screaming, yeah.
Matt: Yes, lots of screaming children. Yeah, so I play Aiden and Otis and a smattering of other characters throughout. I think Sam also worked on it. Anyone else?
All: Ashley.
Matt: That's right, Ashley Johnson, our very own Pike!
Liam: She's one of the mains.
Matt: Yeah, she's one of the main characters in that show. So if you're a Minecraft fan and you like Telltale and you have an Xbox, check it out.
Laura: Speaking of Telltale, the final episode of Tales from the Borderlands comes out next week.
Travis: Oh snap!
Laura: Episode five, what!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: Awesome!
Laura: Exciting.
Matt: (sings) Yeah.
Taliesin: Also in that role, if any Critters are in the Galveston area for Halloween, I will be at OniCon over Halloween weekend. So, you can come say hi in beautiful Galveston by the sea. Galveston, Texas.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: I'll be wearing a costume. It'll be great.
Matt: Perfect.
Liam: We have a gnome.
Laura: We have a gnome.
Taliesin: We have gnome? Oh god!
Marisha: You're in Minecraft, right? Story mode.
Sam: Yes I am.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: In fact you and I--
Matt: I think we have a couple scenes together.
Sam: We do something together, I don't know what. Or you're playing a version of me or something, I don't remember.
Matt: I can only assume that it's tawdry.
Sam: (laughs) The director told me something about you and I just assume we're probably having sex in the game.
Matt: Probably.
Sam: Yeah, okay.
Matt: It's just like an extended, fully interactive too. Talk about choices you make that affect the storyline. (laughs)
Taliesin: I blank out in the booth any time they mention his name.
Matt: But yeah, cool, guys. Any announcements anyone want to talk about, or shall we get things started?
Laura: Let's do it!
Matt: All right, let's do it.
Marisha: Do it!
Liam: Wait, where did Grog go?
Taliesin: Wait, wait, wait.
Sam: He'll be here.
Matt: Grog, he'll be here in a minute but in the meantime, let's go ahead and dial in for the next episode of Critical Role.
Taliesin: Dun dun dun dun. [opening credits]
Matt: Welcome back. So. Sh. (laughs) So, to go over the current adventure in its current sequence, we have-- the party recently had an encounter with the Briarwoods. Two individuals that were responsible for a lot of strife--
Liam: Dicks!
Matt: -- in the background of Percival's history. Seemingly responsible for the destruction of his entire family, and have for the past five years been essentially ruling his home city and castle. They were out for a political banquet with Sovereign Uriel in Emon and the party members of Vox Machina, they were all invited to be part of this. Didn't quite go as planned. There was a scuffle and the Briarwoods absconded back to Whitestone. They sent a couple assassins out to attempt to take out their driver, who was spilling information and essentially was going to be Vox Machina's way of being free of any sort of political issues based on their actions that evening, and after much discussion and preparation and purchasing a lot of mirrors, the party took their transit over to the east-northeast towards Whitestone, where they began to traverse the Alabaster Sierras to the north, using the mountain range as opposed to going directly through the forest. There they managed to avoid encountering a bunch of harpies that were distracted by eating the horses they left behind.
Travis: Damn.
Matt: They camped for the evening and began to make their way through some sort of a mountainous valley that led in towards the forest surrounding Whitestone. While they were traveling down this pass, there was a rumbling, and some sort of really fast, rapid-moving large blue creature that leaped down in front, catching them off-guard. And that is where we begin today.
Travis: Probably should have fucking researched that creature.
Taliesin: Did the creature look like that?
Matt: That blue creature.
Laura: Yeah, right? That would have been smart.
Taliesin: Okay, just checking.
Travis: I never do that.
Laura: I know. So dumb.
Sam: What's dumb?
Travis: I have a question.
Laura: That we didn't research that creature.
Travis: What did you roll on your beard check?
Matt: What'd I roll on my beard check?
Laura: I know, it's growing!
Marisha: It's metagaming, you can't. We're not allowed.
Matt: Well, obviously. (all laugh)
Matt: Well, No Shave 'Til 10k.
Travis: That's true!
Matt: And my Halloween costume requires a decent amount of facial hair.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right.
Travis: A sexy amount of facial hair, you beast! Be glad there's a table between you and I. (all laugh)
Liam: I was a little worried about some performance capture coming up, but it got moved back--
Laura: So you can shave--
Liam: Off to the races.
Matt: Yeah!
Laura: How far are we from 10K?
Travis: I gotta shave tonight.
Crew: 509.
Matt: 509 away.
Laura: All right.
Sam: So, like, tomorrow.
Marisha: Yeah, no.
Matt: We'll see.
Marisha: Tonight.
Matt: All right, so, everyone. As this huge, blue-scaled reptilian-like creature with multiple arms and legs comes skittering down the side of the cliffs, blocking off the entirety of this passage, snarling at you with sharp teeth and this sparking-blue electrical energy jutting out of the corners of its mouth. I want you all to roll initiative.
Marisha: So soon! Which one?
Sam: I add 20 to this, right, that's how it works?
Marisha: Not good.
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: See you guys in--
Marisha: Always cocked!
Travis: I didn't level up! What a dick.
Marisha: Still not great.
Liam: Wait, you did but you didn't, is what you're saying?
Travis: I did, but I didn't.
Liam: Add some hit points!
Laura: Yeah, add your points right now.
Liam: Add some hit points!
Travis: How many do I add?
Marisha: It's like--
Matt: 1d12 plus your constitution modifier!
Laura: 1d12!
Marisha: Barbarian, man!
Liam: Hey, we play D&D!
Laura: Hey, that's good! Plus--
Liam: Plus--
Laura: Whoa! 16 extra health points!
Matt: Whoa, what'd you roll?!
Laura: He rolled an 11 plus five!
Liam: Dang!
Marisha: That's hot.
Matt: That's pretty hot. So many hit points for the barbarian.
Liam: And, if you want, you can just boost to, are you at 12 now?
Travis: What?
Liam: Level 12? Are you at level 12?
Laura: Don't complicate things.
Liam: Just smash, smash, Hulk smash.
Sam: How many spells does he get?
Matt: All of them. All right, so initiatives we have-- 25 to 20, anyone?
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: All right. 20 to 15?
Laura: 19.
Travis: Me too. 16.
Matt: 16? 15 to ten?
Marisha: Ten.
Matt: Ten, Keyleth. Ten to five?
Liam: Eight! I consistently botch this roll.
Sam: See you guys in like an hour. I got a four.
Matt: Scanlan, you have consistently the best initiative rolls.
Sam: Oh, yeah. I save it for when it counts.
Matt: As you should, as you should. So, first up Percy. Instinctively, with your drive towards Whitestone and this creature in your way, you are already ready for this encounter. What are you going to do?
Taliesin: It's bigger than sin, isn't it?
Matt: It is considered a huge creature.
Taliesin: Okay, so, I'm going to alert everybody, get down! And I'm going to take three shots--
Sam: You're just going to start shooting.
Taliesin: Hmm?
Sam: You're just going to start shooting.
Taliesin: I'm just going to-- look at that thing!!
Marisha: Hey, Percy gonna do what Percy gonna do.
Sam: What if you could reason with him?
Laura: He is definitely--
Taliesin: Why doesn't it reason with me, is what I'm asking! It could reason with me!
Liam: There's a lot of heads in the way. Just aim true.
Taliesin: I'm aiming, I'm going to use the Sharpshooter for extra damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Three pepperbox shots.
Liam: I will be less handsome with one ear, I'm just saying.
Matt: With the minus five.
Taliesin: Yeah, so that's 17.
Matt: 17 hits. Just go ahead and roll the attacks in succession.
Taliesin: Hmm?
Matt: Go ahead and roll the attacks in succession so we know how many hit.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Second shot.
Taliesin: Second one, it hits, 18 plus seven.
Matt: It hits. Third one?
Taliesin: For the third one, I'm going to go for a head shot instead of a Sharpshooter.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And that's 21.
Matt: Okay, all three hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: The dark cloud aids his rolls.
Laura: (whispers) Vengeance!
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: 17 damage.
Laura: (whispers) Vengeance!
Taliesin: Better!
Travis: Vengeance!
Taliesin: 25.
Matt: All righty!
Taliesin: That went really well. The last one-- do I do any damage when I hit the head? Normal damage. So, last one is seven points of damage plus he's got--
Matt: Disadvantage on his attacks this round.
Taliesin: Yeah, disadvantage on attacks.
Matt: Gotcha. Do you want to stay where you are, or are you going to move?
Taliesin: Am I touching a wall?
Matt: You're right close to one. You can--
Laura: Stop touching me. Stop touching me.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to brace against a wall.
Matt: Okay. Brace against that wall, there. Gotcha.
Taliesin: And I'm going to mark all this off.
Matt: All righty. Okay. Next up is the creature.
Laura: Argh.
Matt: (Laughs) Because it rolled really high on its initiative. It's going to go ahead. Let's see, at a movement of 50 feet.
Liam: Oh god.
Laura: (gasps)
Travis: (whispers) Are we in a valley? Or are we--
Laura: We're in a freaking--
Marisha: We're in a death trap.
Liam: It crawled down the wall.
Sam: No, it's going to be fine, guys. We're like a--
Taliesin: We're outdoors.
Sam: The valley is like a taco shell.
Laura: Is it a valley, or is it like those are cliff sides and we could fall?
Matt: It's a valley. The cliff sides go up.
Sam: Yeah, it's like a taco shell and we're the meat.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: And we're-- Yeah. Yeah. (all laugh)
Matt: You could climb around it without a problem. But it's pretty sheer. You'd have to make climb checks if you want to--
Marisha: Yep, accurate.
Liam: We're in a tight spot.
Laura: Okay. Got it.
Liam: We're in a tight spot.
Marisha: Unless you're in Japan.
Matt: So it scurries forward--
Taliesin: Taco.
Matt: Lowers its jaw and rears its head back. As it does, you see its eyes flare with electrical energy and inside its mouth begins to glow with a brightish blue, white power.
Liam: Get down.
Matt: A bolt of electrical energy comes forward, hitting Grog, Vax, Scanlan, and Percy.
Travis: It's electrifying!
Laura: Electrified.
Matt: Well, let's see. Actually, no, it would move out to-- Hmm, that's only 20 feet, so to get maximum-- This, let's see.
Sam: Maybe it doesn't do math well.
Laura: Don't think about it, just go.
Sam: Maybe it doesn't know math well. Maybe it doesn't move right.
Laura: Don't calculate it, Matt. It's fine.
Matt: No, actually for optimal--
Laura: Fuck.
Matt: --optimal impact here, instead, it's going to go there.
Travis: I have to put my head in its mouth?
Matt: (laughs) Practically.
Liam: (laughs) Eh.
Matt: It will then do it on-- It would be Grog, Vex, and Trinket.
Sam: I approve of that.
Matt: I realized that its bolt is only 20 feet long. So, utilizing its optimal Lightning Bolt length, you guys were clustered together.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: All right, so I need you guys, you three, to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: With advantage?
Laura: With advantage because I'm in the mountains?
Matt: You do it with advantage. It only affects attacks, not for saving throws.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right. This is a magic save.
Travis: 19.
Matt: Good to know.
Taliesin: I probably should spend Grit.
Laura: 21.
Matt: All right. And Trinket?
Laura: Argh.
Liam: (Chewbacca sounds)
Laura: (growls) Eight. Yay.
Matt: He got an eight?
Laura: He got a eight.
Matt: Oof, okay. 33 points of lightning damage to both of you.
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: Wait, that means--
Matt: Trinket takes 66.
Sam: 66?
Laura: Trinket's fucking dead, yo.
Sam: What?!
Matt: Unconscious.
Laura: That fast?!
Travis: Which one  dead or unconscious?
Laura: He's unconscious.
Taliesin: Unconscious.
Travis: Don't throw around the "D" word, unless it's the "D" word time.
Matt: So, as there was a crackling of energy forward, you two brace yourself, managing to get mostly out of the way. Unfortunately, both of you dodging out of the way leaves an open shot for bear, that just takes the brunt of it, throwing Trinket up against the side of the actual mountainous cavern. And slumps to the ground, smoking off the fur.
Laura: Does Trinket have to make saving throws?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Death saving throws? Yes.
Marisha: No one has any resistance, spell resistance?
Matt: Not yet. Until we get to his turn. That will end--
Laura: Ooh, ooh, wait.
Marisha: Forgetting-- Your armor? I've got a spell you're--
Laura: He's only got 42 hit points.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: Technically, he should have more from leveling up. But, even more wouldn't be that much higher, so-- Okay, so that's rough. That ends its turn. Vex, you're up first. (all laugh)
Travis: She would like to rage.
Marisha: (as Matt) So that sucks, but--
Laura: Vengeance! Vengeance.
Taliesin: Say your soul is forfeit.
Laura: I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: And then I'm going to-- Why is he closer now? Sorry, Grog. I'm going to Hail of Thorns him.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Grog is always in the way.
Laura: Yeah, well--
Travis: I do need a good back tickle.
Liam: (as Grog) Got an itch back there.
Travis: Yeah. (laughs)
Laura: 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Laura: No, wait, that's wrong. No, 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Laura: (sighs) I'm so angry right now! Thorn's d--
Travis: It's not at me for once.
Laura: Ten. (sighs) 3d10.
Taliesin: For once, you're not the one doing damage to the bear.
Travis: That's good.
Laura: 18 plus two is 20.
Marisha: It's a bonus action, so we can do other shit if Scanlan and I both do it.
Laura: What is that?
Travis: 22.
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22 also hits.
Laura: No, that's the attack.
Matt: That's the damage. Okay, gotcha. And Grog, also--
Laura: Oh, yeah.
Matt: Because you're right next to it.
Travis: (posh accent) Would that be considered piercing, bludgeoning, or slashing damage?
Matt: (posh accent) It doesn't matter, you have not taken your turn to rage yet.
Travis: (posh accent) Oh fucking shit. (all laugh)
Matt: That would be full damage upon you, Grog.
Travis: Ow! (laughs)
Laura: Oh shit, I'm sorry. The other one was 27.
Matt: To hit? Okay.
Laura: Awoo. Ten plus--
Sam: Angry d10.
Laura: Plus 15.
Matt: 15. That's including the Hunter's Mark, right?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right, good.
Laura: Oh wait, no, I wasn't adding the seven. Wait no, that's a lie. That's a 15, 16, 17, plus five. 21.
Matt: 21, got it. So, as you look over and you see Trinket on the ground, smoldering spire of smoke pouring off of his body--
Laura: Can I pull him? Can I pull him out of the way?
Marisha: Smells like burnt fur.
Sam: Burnt fur.
Laura: Just pull him into the little crevice, for my move.
Matt: This way, do you mean?
Laura: For my move. Is that a move action, or would it be an action-action?
Matt: That would be more of an action-action, unfortunately.
Laura: Ugh. Oh no.
Matt: But you angrily turn around, release your arrow, firing a completely furious Hail of Thorns into the creature. As it hits, it shatters across its hide, some of it scattering onto Grog. You don't even care. You just focus the anger, pull out a second arrow, unleash this one. Actually jamming underneath one of the scales. You can see a little trickle of dark, deep purple blood beginning to pour from the wound.
Laura: I get out of the line.
Matt: Okay, where do you want to go?
Laura: Towards the little crevice.
Matt: Right there?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Did we lose--
Laura: But I still want to be near Trinket.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Getting ass-lit up with the Hail of Thorns, I go into a rage.
Laura: I'm so sorry.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Travis: I go into a Frenzied Rage!
Matt: All righty.
Travis: And I would like to attack three times with my flaming warhammer.
Matt: Certainly.
Liam: No more shopping today.
Travis: That is 24.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 21?
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Eee! 26.
Matt: That also hits.
Travis: Nice. Those were really good rolls. Okay. First one is 11.
Laura: I think I missed a box.
Travis: 13? First one.
Matt: 13 damage. Good to know.
Taliesin: Brought another sign.
Travis: 14 for the second one.
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Travis: Yes. 17 and 18, 19, 20, 21 plus the fire damage.
Matt: Good to know.
Travis: Including fire damage.
Matt: All right, so, going into the rage, you just see that same fury. You can smell the burnt hair in the air and you use that to fuel that moment of pain. You just (impact sounds) and just start bludgeoning the creature right up in its face. You can see it's thrashing and snarling at you and snapping with each blow. You guys are locked in this titan-versus-human battle right now. Cool, and are you going to stay where you are?
Travis: I'm going to move. Can I move towards you a little bit?
Matt: This way, there?
Travis: Yes, staying next to him, but just out of the way of other projectiles that might be coming up my butthole.
Matt: Fair enough. (laughs) Okay, Grog. Ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. I'm right next to Trinket, right?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Marisha: Okay, right? Where is Trinket?
Matt: Trinket's right there. You're over here.
Liam: Follow the smell.
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and go to Trinket.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: Oh, that's right. Make a death saving throw, by the way.
Sam: Oh, snap.
Matt: Almost forgot.
Laura: (whimpers) Oh no.
Matt: Roll a d20.
Liam: (sings) Roll high.
Marisha: He'll be fine. He'll be fine.
Taliesin: Roll like your bear depends on it.
Travis: You should pick a blood-colored one.
Laura: Why would you do that? He rolled a 19.
Sam: Ooh.
Matt: Okay, so not creeping closer to death yet.
Laura: Don't say that.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to go ahead and do a Cure Wounds spell on him.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Thank you, Keyleth.
Marisha: I'll just do first level.
Sam: Oh. Trinket's not worth second level?
Marisha: No no no no no. I'll give him a-- shut up, Scanlan. (all laugh)
Liam: Wake him up, wake him up, wake him up.
Marisha: I instantly felt guilty, dick.
Taliesin: You guilted her up to another level.
Marisha: Yeah, you did. Okay.
Travis: (laughs) That was the best.
Sam: I would've done a cantrip.
Marisha: (laughs) That's 2d8 plus ten.
Travis: Dick.
Laura: 2d8 plus ten? That's great. (all laugh)
Travis: Guilted it for an imaginary bear.
Marisha: All right, that's pretty good.
Taliesin: That's not bad.
Marisha: That's an eight and a seven plus ten. So--
Matt: 25.
Sam: 25.
Marisha: 25.
Laura: 25!
Matt: So Trinket's at 25 hit points, conscious.
Laura: That's great!
Matt: Prone, but conscious.
Laura: He licks her.
Matt: You hear the-- okay. (laughs)
Marisha: And then, as a bonus action--
Taliesin: Ack.
Matt: Mm-hm?
Marisha: Can I, looking at whatever the shit this is, pull out my spark stone--
Laura: (gasps)
Marisha: --that I got from my Fire Ashari.
Sam: That's a thing? Oooh.
Matt: Uh-huh.
Marisha: And (shattering sound).
Sam: (gasps)
Taliesin: Oh, wow! We're going there.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Is that, like, "Break glass in case of emergency"?
Marisha: Yeah, I don't know what it does.
Sam: (laughs) Oh, great!
Travis: We'll find out.
Sam: Hope I'm right next to you.
Matt: After you finish healing Trinket--
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: -- you pull up, reach out, and pull this. And you're going to hold it in your hands, you could feel it's warm to the touch. Almost too hot to hold. And there's this slight pulsing, almost like a heartbeat pulse to it. You hold it in your hands and just crush it, concentrating all your energy on it. As you do, what seemed to be hard and sturdy all of a sudden turns brittle in your fingers, and it cracks and breaks, almost like it was made of a very, very brittle earth. As it breaks and your hands come together, the "too hot to touch" becomes too hot to touch, and for a moment, your hands burst into flames--
Sam: Ah.
Matt: And you instinctively pull back like you want to go ahead and put out the fire--
Marisha: Ow!
Matt: -- but then it falls to a normal temperature again, but the flames remain.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: And you can now see your hands are now emitting flame from all the fingers.
Sam: Woo.
Laura: Is that permanent?
Sam: What does it do?
Marisha: We'll find out. And I go Minxie.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Yeah, Minxie! (all cheer)
Marisha: And I brought the hood. (all laugh)
Sam: Too hot to handle, too cold to hold.
Liam: That tiger's on fire!
Travis: They in control.
Matt: Keyleth transforms into Minxie! And as Minxie--
Travis: Bobby Brown.
Matt: -- appears, her form transitioning into this large, albino sabre-toothed tiger--
Sam: (sing) Well, I guess we're gonna have to take control.
Taliesin: (sing) Well, I guess we're gonna have to take control.
Matt: You can see both of the tiger's claws embedded into the ground of this rocky terrain are having licks of fire and flame curling off of the actual claws.
Marisha: Hell, yeah. I look like an Ed Hardy tattoo. (all laugh)
Matt: (laughs) I regret everything! (all laugh)
Matt: All right. That's your turn. Are you going to move, are you going to stay there?
Marisha: Well, I moved to Trinket.
Matt: Right, but you can break your movement up.
Marisha: Oh, yeah.
Matt: You've moved 20 feet, so you still have ten more feet to move if you want to.
Marisha: I'll start heading to try and flank him. To flank the blue beastie.
Matt: That should be there. Okay. All right, that ends Keyleth. Now would be Tiberius. Tiberius, who now takes the turn to cast Stoneskin on himself. Then backs up behind this side, there, preparing for the next round. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, Vax drops low. I click the boots of haste together, and for everyone who keeps asking, if I click my boots of haste together, I then get to attack three times. I get that question about three times a week. So that's how I do it. So, I click the boots of haste together, and then I'm going to crouch low and scoot. No, the other side of Minxie, and I should be able to go 60 feet without a problem all the way past the fucker.
Matt: Mm-hm?
Liam: Yeah, keep going, as far as I can. That's as far as I can go?
Matt: Yep.
Liam: All right. And I guess I will just dagger him in the ass, then.
Matt: All right.
Liam: So-- First is a--
Taliesin: I love that die.
Liam: Two, three, 24?
Matt: 24 hits.
Liam: Yes. And this would be Sneak Attack--
Matt: This is with Sneak Attack, yep.
Liam: Because he's with Grog.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Yeah!
Liam: So, here's the damage for the attack. Ooh. Two, seven, is nine, plus-- Ooh.
Laura: Ooh, oh no.
Liam: This is 13, 17, 19, 20, 26, 31 for the first.
Travis: Jesus.
Liam: Second attack go. Oh, that's not the right die at all. Second attack goes. Same. Eee, 23?
Matt: All right, that hits.
Liam: Okay. And this is--
Matt: Regular damage now.
Liam: Yeah yeah yeah. That's seven?
Matt: Seven, all righty.
Liam: And then the last dagger, the keen dagger, stabs him in the butt again, and that is--
Laura: Ow.
Liam: Ow, 16.
Matt: 16. That does not hit.
Liam: Whiff!
Matt: You actually go with a third one. The first one stabs through, and you can see you've actually hit some sort of an internal organ as you pull back and starts gouting blood. You see that, you stab a second blade in the same area and tend to open the wound another inch, inch and a half. The third one, you pull back, but it slinks around over its shoulder, its long sinewy neck curling over and staring at you. And your blade catches the hide instead and streaks off of the scales.
Liam: Oh, hi.
Matt: That'll end your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Do I have to heal Trinket anymore?
Laura: No, he's okay.
Sam: Okay. Then I will-- (laughs) Let's see here. Do we want to get him away from us, or do we want to hurt him? Let's do--
Laura: We want to hurt him!
Sam: Well, I don't hurt things very well. (laughs)
Travis: Do what you're going to do.
Laura: Do what you do.
Taliesin: You hurt feelings.
Marisha: You do you, Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. I'll do some Bigby Hand.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: I summon Bigby's Hand. (sings) Bigby's Hand! (all laugh)
Matt: This giant spectral hand, sparkling arcane energy appears roughly in front of your space.
Sam: It's in front of me. I can't make it go in front of him?
Matt: You can.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Like, I'm just saying, from a flavor standpoint.
Sam: Okay. Well then, I do one of these, the Sugar Ray Leonard. I do this-- (all laugh)
Sam: And then I throw my other hand forward. (all laugh)
Sam: And I'll just punch him in the face.
Matt: Go for it. (all laugh)
Matt: I like that.
Sam: Right? Because I can do the-- It says huge or smaller creature, at least with Grasping Hand. Is that only-- does that count?
Matt: Right. Oh. You can just punch something with it, no matter its size, to do damage.
Sam: So the Clenched Fisht, Clenched Fist.
Matt: Correct. Correct.
Laura: Clenched Fisht.
Matt: Clenched Fisht.
Sam: Clenched Fisht attack, Money Penny.
Matt: Thish ish the one you're talking about. Yes. All right, so-- For the Clenched Fist, make a melee spell attack. So roll a d20 and add your spell attack modifier.
Sam: (laughs) Nope. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: 13.
Matt: 13. As the fist swings out, it ducks out of the way. Its serpentine body ducking as the fist arcs off into the middle of the air.
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: Spinning around, preparing itself for a secondary round, hopefully.
Laura: Good try, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh boy. (laughs)
Matt: That's good.
Liam: Vax sees it fly over his head, and watches it pass. (all laugh)
Sam: I'll take a step to my left, so I'm not in the same line of fire as Percy.
Matt: All right.
Sam: And I'll also inspire Grog. (sings) He's Grog, he's Grog, he's big, he's strong, like wood. He's better than bad, he's good. (all laugh)
Laura: That's awesome.
Matt: (sings) Everyone wants a Grog.
Travis: That's amazing. Is that a ten? That's a ten?
Matt: d10, yeah.
Travis: Amazing.
Matt: d10 Inspiration die from the bard.
Travis: Thank you, Scanlan.
Matt: Top of the round again. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to scoot a little bit forward, just into that little crevice. I'm going to take three more shots, just to see what I can do.
Matt: Okay. You have the Sharpshooter feat, right?
Taliesin: With the Sharpshooter feat.
Matt: Okay, so yeah. Because it would have partial cover right now, but you ignore that with the--
Taliesin: I have Sharpshooter, so I can ignore cover.
Matt: Good to know.
Taliesin: Yeah, so. But I'm going to be taking a negative for these hits. Still three attacks per--
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. Just making sure I'm doing this right.
Matt: But you have to reload after this turn.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Oh no.
Travis: Misfire?
Taliesin: Misfire. (all groan)
Matt: First shot. As you pull up to the side, you pull your pepperbox out and go to fire. As you do, you pull the trigger and the actual barrel sticks out the side. Spins off, and (ping-ping-ping) on the ground.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: So that's your attack.
Marisha: Balls.
Matt: That's your turn because it'll take you the rest of the turn to collect the Bad News.
Sam: Just say, "Your soul is forfeit," just for coolness. (all laugh)
Taliesin: This normally doesn't happen to me. I don't quite know what-- (all laugh)
Travis: It happens to all guys sometimes. (all laugh)
Taliesin: So can I, at least, use my bonus to pick up the pieces and--
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to pick up the pieces and--
Matt: You collect Pepperbox and you pull your back up to it and mutter curses.
Laura: Oh no.
Liam: Make sure you grab your dignity as well.
Taliesin: I'm just going to leave that as an open target for a little while.
Matt: Fair enough. Okay. Now, on its turn--
Sam: Oh shit.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: First off, let's see here.
Liam: Damn it, attack attack!
Sam: We did great. (laughs)
Matt: But that does not recharge its Lightning Breath. It's going to move here. It's going to go ahead and make two attacks. It's going to turn around and its head that's looking at you, now, after you stabbed it in the back.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Reaches down, its giant jaws open. You can see, like, this thick saliva that's coating its fangs, and it, with serpentine speed, bites at you.
Liam: Hey, rogue's Evasion.
Matt: That's going to be a 23 to hit.
Liam: So, Uncanny Dodge, I can dodge for half damage, so it was a what to hit?
Matt: 23.
Liam: 23 hits, but I take half damage.
Matt: All right.
Laura: (as Vax) Half damage.
Matt: So, let's see. That would be--
Liam: Yesh.
Marisha: Does a bite attack--
Liam: Half. Not whole.
Laura: (as Vax) Half damage.
Liam: 152 hit points.
Travis: Stop rolling, Jesus.
Matt: (laughs) It would be 26 damage, so you take 13.
Liam: Ah, nothing.
Laura: Okay, okay.
Taliesin: Ain't nothing.
Laura: Don't say that's nothing.
Matt: Points of piercing damage.
Laura: Don't say that's nothing.
Matt: And then, as it bites, it turns around and its tail begins to snake around your body, Grog.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: And its whole body begins to try to reach around to constrict and crush you.
Travis: Oh shit.
Laura: What?
Matt: That is a 21 to hit.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: All righty, so. You take 21 points in bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Halved.
Matt: So that'd be 11 points of bludgeoning damage plus 21 points of slashing damage.
Sam: Whoa.
Travis: Halved.
Matt: As well. So a total of 22 damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And you are considered grappled and restrained, currently, as the entire creature begins to wrap around you. And you're currently (sound of struggle). You're trying to hold onto your axe but your whole body's being crushed by this large serpentine creature. (all laugh)
Travis: You piece of shit.
Matt: You feel every pulse of its muscles tensing. As the pain and ache, you can feel muscles and ligaments tearing and popping as it pulls in on you.
Travis: Not cool.
Matt: And it's going to, as part of its grapple, move you with it to there. And it'll end its turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. How does the Hide thing work? Do I hide at the beginning of the turn or at the end of the turn?
Matt: At the end of the turn.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to move out.
Matt: Okay, it has a reach of ten. So you are technically within its melee range. So you can run but you'll take attack of opportunity from it if you do. Just so you're aware.
Laura: Can I still arrow it from where I am?
Matt: You can, but you have disadvantage on all your ranged attacks because you are in melee range.
Laura: Does it cancel out because I'm in the mountains?
Matt: Doesn't affect your attacks.
Laura: Damn it.
Matt: Sorry. It's up to you, you can stay where you are and take disadvantage on all your attacks, or you could run past and it gets a free swipe on you. Your call.
Laura: I'm going to try to back up.
Matt: Okay. Over to here? Like, how far?
Laura: Oh no. Wait, I can't see. I forgot my glasses.
Matt: Okay, you're right here.
Laura: Uh-huh.
Matt: You can try and back up this way if you wanted to get away.
Laura: Yeah, I'll try to back up towards, who is that?
Matt: That's Scanlan there. Oh, here?
Laura: Percy? I'll try to back towards Percy.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Over here?
Laura: Sure, yeah. Why not?
Matt: Okay, all right.
Sam: What's Trinket doing?
Laura: Well, Trinket's healed, and he's going to come with me.
Matt: Okay. So Trinket gets up and used half its 40 movement. It can move--
Laura: Although he's angry about it, because he wants to fight, but I just won't let him right now.
Matt: Okay, so as you rush away, the creature takes-- Ooh, that's a 26 to hit.
Laura: Aw, Jesus. Really?
Sam: Oh shit, does it hit Trinket, too?
Laura: No, just me.
Marisha: 26.
Laura: Trinket was too far away.
Matt: So you take 18 points of piercing damage. Oh, it's 3d10, sorry.
Laura: Oh. (laughs)
Matt: 19. I rolled a one for damage.
Laura: Oh, yay!
Matt: 19 points of piercing damage as its mouth lashes out, takes a chunk of your shoulder for a second, and you wrench yourself away and keep running.
Laura: Ugh.
Matt: Take the rest of your turn.
Laura: Ugh, okay. I'm going to shoot him.
Matt: Yes, you are.
Laura: Okay. That is 22.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: Okay. 14 for the first hit.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Second one is through the blazing bow, at 22.
Matt: Second one hits, first one misses, or did it hit?
Laura: Oh no, 14 was the damage to it.
Matt: For damage? All right, second one, blazing bow?
Laura: And then, (noises).
Sam: (noises)
Laura: (noises) Ugh. 16.
Matt: 16 damage, all right. Okay.
Laura: Oh, and I hide.
Matt: You currently are completely in its visual range. You have to be behind something to reasonably become hidden.
Laura: I'm hiding behind--
Taliesin: But you are behind me.
Laura: Percy.
Matt: No, behind a person doesn't work. It has to be, like, behind a pillar.
Marisha: Human shield.
Matt: Or in deep shadow.
Laura: (groans) Oh.
Matt: Something that would break your line of sight to it--
Travis: Like me.
Matt: For a moment, to the point where it no longer knows quite where you are.
Marisha: It works.
Taliesin: It totally works.
Laura: I hid in the wrong place.
Sam: Who said that? Who said that?
Laura: I went to the wrong place.
Matt: But now you know.
Laura: It's okay. Next time I know.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Putting glass for the dog--
Matt: That's your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to try and break the grapple.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20, yes.
Marisha: I can picture that. Why did you do that?
Matt: Because you are restrained--
Taliesin: Kicking myself.
Matt: Need to check what effect the condition-- Here. Just to be safe. Okay, yeah. Go ahead and you're making an athletics check.
Travis: Natural 20. (all cheer)
Travis: Oh, that was good.
Matt: All right, so--
Travis: I bite its tail.
Marisha: Yeah. (all laugh)
Laura: You can.
Travis: Son of a bitch! Ahhh!
Matt: As your teeth sink into one of its scales and you yank it out with the sheer force of your muscly neck.
Laura: Throw it over my way. I'll catch it.
Matt: It unfurls for a second, you manage to pull yourself out of its grasp.
Travis: I'm so pissed that I broke free, that I would like to use Intimidating Presence on this creature.
Matt: Okay. All right. That is an action to do that, though, isn't it?
Travis: Is it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Travis: I reserve Intimidating Presence--
Matt: For a later time.
Travis: (laughs) -- for a later time.
Matt: But you have a bonus action, still.
Travis: I hit the shit out of it. (all laugh)
Matt: You gain another attack, go for it.
Travis: Okay, 21.
Matt: 21 does hit.
Travis: All right, that's 22. 22! Sorry, 22 hits?
Matt: Also hits. One more.
Travis: Oh, I get one more.
Laura: Ha ha! Also 22.
Travis: Also 22.
Matt: "Hit" meaning--
Sam: You hit once.
Matt: It was one better than your previous--
Travis: Oh, got you.
Matt: You hit once, yeah.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: Just one hit.
Matt: Just one hit.
Sam: Just keep rolling 22s.
Laura: Just keep rolling.
Travis: Nine, ten, 11, 12. 15.
Matt: 15 points.
Travis: With fire damage!
Matt: All right, so, as you pull away, you reach back with your hammer and slam it into its side, causing this giant burst of fire--
Travis: Bitch.
Matt: To emanate from the impact. It shrinks back for a second and (growls).
Travis: You grabbed me. You ask first.
Taliesin: This is a repair die.
Matt: (laughs) All right, Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: I'm going to do my Bite and Claw attacks.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to move in that crux a little bit more, one more, if I can?
Matt: There? All righty.
Marisha: Beautiful. I'm going to do my claw attacks first.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: To see what they-- what it does.
Matt: What was it?
Marisha: It was cocked.
Sam: It was halfway between two.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So that's 12, plus, it's always different. Okay, 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: I haven't been Minxie in battle for a while, 1d10 plus five.
Laura: Plus your flaming claws.
Travis: (laughs) I love Minxie.
Laura: Don't forget your flaming claws.
Liam: She's got the plan.
Marisha: Yeah, six, so 11 damage for the claws.
Matt: An additional 1d6 fire damage.
Marisha: Plus 1d6, oh wait that's actually-- What did I just say? I said ten, 11? And then an extra 1d6?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Ooh, another four, so what did I say?
Sam: 15.
Matt: So, any of your claw attacks or any claw attacks you do in any of your forms now get an additional 1d6 fire damage.
Sam: Nice!
Travis: Hell yeah!
Sam: Nice!
Marisha: Then I'm going to do my bite attack.
Matt: All right, go for it. Your bite does not get the effect.
Laura: I know, it was really loud!
Travis: It was a good one.
Marisha: 16, so plus-- 20, plus my six, plus seven, so 24.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage for the bite.
Marisha: Which is 2d6. Eight plus five, so 12.
Matt: Eight plus five is 13.
Marisha: 13, 14! Plus, I get an extra damage for my collar, so 14.
Matt: Right. Cool. So, your flaming claw strikes across its outer body, its legs pull away from the pain as you reach up and bite into the edge of its tail. As its tail tries to whip away, you catch it and it pulls you forward a few feet as you clench down on it. Eventually, it yanks its way out, taking a couple of scales with it, you can see a streak where teeth marks are on the back of its tail.
Marisha: (growls)
Matt: Awesome. Does that end your turn?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Nice, Minxie!
Marisha: (growls)
Matt: Tiberius is going to go around the corner again and is going to cast Telekinesis and send his glaive up spinning.
Laura: Glaive?
Sam: He has a glaive?
Laura: The thing that he killed the old lady with.
Sam: Oh!
Liam: It's the granny grinder!
Marisha: Granny grinder?!
Matt: Granny grinder?!
Travis: So bad.
Matt: Rolls a two, unfortunately, though. Just streaks off and spins back around and then, while it misses the creature and stops, hovering above his head with a slow spin. Sits there curling his fingers, grinning at the creature. And is going to the use of the rest of this movement to go back behind the rock because mama didn't raise no fool. Vax, you're up.
Liam: It's preoccupied, so I just leisurely walk backwards about 30 feet, looking at the same wound that I started before.
Matt: This way?
Liam: No, back up the chasm here. Even further away. Yeah! And I'm just going to throw three daggers into the wound I already hit, so I'm going to do that again. I know that hits because it hit the last time. That's a 23.
Matt: That hits!
Liam: And that's Sneak Attack because he's occupied. That's 11 plus--
Laura: Ooh, those are good!
Liam: 11 plus 17, 21, 26, 29, 34, 39 for the first dagger.
Sam: What, that's just the first dagger?!
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: Whoa!
Matt: Sneak Attack, man.
Liam: Next one doesn't hit, probably, that's a 17.
Matt: 17 just barely hits.
Liam: Just barely hits, yeah! That is an eight of damage. And just wait a second and go-- and throw it. And because I was such a cock it misses, that's a 16.
Matt: So, oh, perfect! Second dagger wedges in with the second dagger, opening the wound even more. You're like, perfect opening! You go for the third one, and it's grown wise to it, and turns around and rakes its claw out and deflects the dagger midair.
Liam: Vex, look at me! Oh, shit.
Laura: Nice one! Nice!
Matt: That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Oh! This is unusual.
Marisha: A turn.
Sam: I still have my Bigby's Hand up, so I do one of these where I say, oh, a wise guy, see? (taunting noises) and I just poke him in the eyes.
Matt: All right, as you say "Wise guy, eh?" as this giant hand's floating in the air, and its head snarls at it and tries to bite at the hand. Go ahead and roll your spell attack.
Sam: 19.
Matt: So, you get to go ahead and--
Sam: 4d8.
Matt: Yeah, 4d8 points of force damage.
Marisha: It's the eyes!
Laura: Into the eyeballs!
Sam: 19.
Matt: 19 points of force damage as you jam both its fingers into the sides of its head. Both of its eyes recoil on it, it reaches out and starts thrashing at the air around as the hand dodges around for a minute.
Sam: I hide behind Trinket, the smell of smoldering fur in my nose. As a bonus action, I will-- who's up next, who's coming soon? Is Percy next?
Taliesin: I'm up next.
Sam: I'll inspire Percy. Just doing this move--
Marisha: Sexy dance.
Sam: Going, pour some Scanlan on you! When you need a hand! That's all I've got.
Taliesin: Ugh!
Sam: And I get closer. Pour some Scanlan on you!
Matt: You begrudgingly take 1d10 inspiration dice from Scanlan.
Travis: Is the creature blinded from the pokey-poke?
Matt: It is not. It is a resilient creature, and the impact was mainly absorbed by the ocular sockets, as opposed to the eyes themselves.
Travis: Hey, I didn't ask for science. Jesus. (all laugh)
Matt: There's bone around-- never mind. All right. It ends Scanlan's turn. Percy, you're up.
Travis: (laughs) Just a little pokey.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to try and fix this broken piece of gosa.
Sam: Do I lose another spell for that, or is that just the same--?
Matt: No, you can maintain concentration.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: I hit a 12, which is just barely enough to fix it.
Matt: Okay. So you take your action to go ahead and repair the gun.
Taliesin: And I'm going to burn an Action Surge, so I'm just-- I finally get it, and it just starts going. And I'm just going to empty out the chamber.
Matt: All right, three shots.
Marisha: (laughs) It just starts going.
Taliesin: Ho, nelly.
Matt: Using your bonus action to reload.
Travis: I got my finger on the trigger, I got my finger on the trigger, gun!
Taliesin: I don't have to reload, yet, I've got six shots, so we're still three in the chamber.
Matt: That's right. We-- yeah, yeah.
Taliesin: Unless you, actually--
Matt: As part of the misfire, you would lose one, so you have two in the chamber right now.
Taliesin: I have two in the chamber?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Okay, so I'll do two, and then use the third one to reload.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Pew, pew.
Laura: (high-pitched) Pew, pew.
Taliesin: All right, so-- Ooh, this'll be fun.
Sam: Don't shoot me.
Taliesin: Sharpshooter shot. That's 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Travis: Nice.
Taliesin: I'll just take the second shot right now. That's-- really? Really? Really, are we going there?
Laura: Oh, no.
Sam: Did he misfire again?
Marisha: No, you didn't misfire, did you?
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: Misfired again. I rolled a two.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: I got one shot off.
Matt: You got one shot off. Go ahead and roll damage. Sharpshooter damage, so it gets the plus ten damage.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: That's fun.
Laura: Could you have added inspiration dice to that?
Taliesin: To a misfire? No.
Matt: No, misfire still hits. There is a lot of strengths to the gunslinger. This is the one penalty, is if you roll bad.
Taliesin: So that's, okay, at least this is a badass, as I at least did some damage. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 24 damage, plus four points of fire damage.
Matt: Nice. Okay. So, as you go, and you fix it-- It takes the first shot, with a burst of flame that shoots out the front of the barrel. The second shot, this time, the actual metal in the front arcs upward, and it looks like this is going to take a moment, to really seriously repair it. Pepperbox is coming through pretty rough in this fight.
Laura: Oh, no. Oh no.
Matt: So that's your turn.
Travis: But not as rough as Stitch over there, huh?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: We're in a group.
Matt: Yeah. (laughs) The creature does regain use of its Lightning Breath.
Liam: Right.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Oh, I was about to say, and--
Matt: So you wanna move anywhere?
Taliesin: Yeah, I wanna get a little further back. I wanna roll to the other side of the cave again, if possible.
Matt: Which way? You mean over here?
Taliesin: Yeah. Like, see that little outcropping of rock?
Matt: Right here?
Taliesin: Further back. Like that over there.
Marisha: That little chunky thing?
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Smart move, Percy.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: That thing scares me.
Laura: Why are you abandoning me?
Matt: Okay. That ends Percy's turn.
Taliesin: The beast.
Marisha: I don't like the dice that I have.
Travis: Don't think too hard.
Taliesin: That's not good.
Sam: No.
Laura: It just burps out lightning.
Travis: Jesus, I don't think we've ever seen anything this hard.
Laura: I know.
Liam: Guys, guys.
Sam: What is he doing?
Liam: Guys.
Marisha: Have you seen anything like it?
Sam: What is he doing?
Liam: Guys.
Laura: He's thinking.
Liam: Guys.
Sam: We broke the DM.
Laura: I know.
Travis: You know the silence before the storm?
Matt: Considering optimal--
Laura: This is bad.
Liam: He erupts.
Travis: He hasn't said anything.
Matt: All right. So. (all groan)
Marisha: You stared at that for a really long time.
Sam: Here comes the other three.
Travis: Here comes the boom?
Matt: So, this behir is going to shift back here. You get an attack of opportunity on it, Keyleth. So go ahead and take a swing.
Liam: Burn it.
Sam: Fire slap!
Marisha: So. 16.
Matt: 16 just misses. It gets right out of your grasp. The flames just lick across the outside of its scales. As it pulls back, rears down right in your face, Godzilla-style, just unleashes a burst of electrical energy.
Laura: Oh, God. Dodge it. Dodge it.
Matt: It hits you and Keyleth. I need you guys to both make dexterity saving throws.
Sam: With inspiration.
Marisha: Who, me and Grog? Okay.
Sam: With inspiration.
Travis: I don't need it.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: Dexterity saves? That's not good.
Travis: 19.
Marisha: Four.
Matt: 33 points of lightning damage to you, Grog. 66 to you.
Travis: Can I use my Stone's Endurance?
Matt: You can.
Travis: Okay.
Taliesin: What?!
Matt: What's the maximum health of Minxie's form?
Marisha: Looking-- I'm out.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm now in Keyleth form.
Matt: And how much damage goes over?
Marisha: Not that many, thank God. 12.
Matt: 12. Okay, so you-- As Minxie all of a sudden gets blasted, you can see the form shrink down to Keyleth's crumpled form on the ground, hands still flaming, little bit of singe to the back of her hair, and stands back up.
Taliesin: I'll take that. I'll take that. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: That'll end its turn. Vex, you're up.
Marisha: That felt like Shockwave.
Laura: Oh, God. Can I, as a bonus action, give Trinket a healing potion?
Matt: You can-- that would be more of an action to feed it to something else.
Laura: Okay, never mind. I am going to attack it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Okay. He's, oh, I missed. That's a 14.
Matt: A 14 does not hit, unfortunately. The first arrow just ricochets and shatters across the part of its body.
Laura: Great. Good times, good times. 16. Both miss. Fucking A. What a waste.
Matt: Both arrows just explode across its hide. It's too thick.
Laura: This dice is out for the rest of the game. I'm gonna run. Is there an outcropping where we are? I can't see.
Matt: Right here, a little bit. If you pull fully in on this side from where it--
Laura: I'm going to pull fully in on that side.
Matt: Okay. Don't forget your laser pointers, by the way, guys. It's good for letting me know exactly where you want to go.
Laura: I can't see.
Matt: I know. Just so you know. And Trinket's going to stay there?
Laura: He's gonna rest. And he's going to keep protecting Scanlan, because--
Matt: All right. Trinket's gonna stay right there, guarding the giant gnome.
Sam: Oh, thank you. Giant gnome?
Matt: Giant hand, small gnome. Grog, you're up.
Travis: (yells) I try and match the Godzilla roar, it's not really as good, and I swing three times with my fire hammer.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: That's a 18.
Matt: 18. That hits.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Travis: And 19.
Matt: 19 hits. Roll damage.
Laura: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: That anus! That's 13.
Laura: Eee, good.
Travis: 23, and 22.
Matt: All righty. How do you want to do this? (all yell)
Taliesin: But you never said he looked a little rough! I kept waiting for you to say it's looking a little rough.
Matt: It's hard to tell with this entity.
Taliesin: Damn it!
Matt: It's moving so fast.
Travis: I'd like to reach up with my firebrand warhammer.
Sam: Yes!
Travis: And I would like to smash it on top of its skull, and when it hits the ground, I'd just like to keep turning it into jelly and paste and sweet jams that I can bottle it up and sell later!
Matt: You guys watch this continuous barrage, this horrible bludgeoning. Every impact almost quakes the inside of this valley. Rocks are beginning to tumble and fall around it. And you can see, as each horrible, sickening smack, its head just collapses more and more. The mush begins to spill out from under it, this giant pool of, like, dark violet liquid and gelatinous mush that was once the inside of its head, begin to just grow around it as Grog just keeps hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting--
Marisha: Grog? Grog?
Matt: And hitting and hitting--
Laura: Grog?
Sam: I use Bigby's Hand to stop the hammer.
Laura: Maybe you unrage. Lullaby, Hulk. Lullaby.
Sam: It's over. It's over.
Marisha: Lullaby?!
Travis: Lullaby?!
Sam: Think of the beard.
Travis: What happened?
Taliesin: Well.
Laura: You killed it real good!
Travis: Oh, look, we made jelly.
Marisha: Speaking of jelly, I would like to go ahead and do a nature check to see if I can salvage some goods from whatever.
Laura: I run, I walk up to it and kick it, and say, that's for Trinket. Dick.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Can I roll a hit dice to recover some--
Matt: If you guys want to take a short rest, you can.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: That'd be great.
Taliesin: Yes! I would like to fix my gun. Just a giant pile of tools.
Laura: Do we need to hide? Do we need to climb up to its little cave that it was in, maybe? And hide.
Sam: Did it have a cave?
Travis: Was it in a cave?
Laura: It had a cave. Didn't it come out of a cave, when we saw it?
Matt: You saw it was up on a higher platform, you didn't see a cavern, or anything.
Laura: Oh, I thought it was a cave.
Marisha: I rolled a 21 to collect goods.
Matt: Okay, looking through the book that you have. You eventually take a while to look while you guys are having your short rest. You can use your hit dice to heal yourself. It is known as a behir.
Sam: A behir?
Matt: B-E-H-I-R.
Marisha: B-E-H-I-R.
Taliesin: Behir.
Travis: Be here.
Laura: Be here right now. Be present.
Matt: Behir. There are two things. Anything in the face and teeth are gone. They are just mush. The entire head is destroyed.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: The the two things in the book that are worthwhile, like, really worth money, are some of its hide can be repurposed for, you know, like, lightning resist-based armor, but currently it's unknown who has the speciality to actually work with that material. These creatures are difficult to harvest and a lot of their locations are unknown. A lot of them were hunted down for that long ago and almost thought to have gone extinct. (all groan)
Matt: However, yes, you don't know anybody, possibly Karin in Emon. The hide can be harvested. There is also a gland in its throat that it uses to charge its Lightning Breath.
Taliesin: I'd like that.
Marisha: I'd like that.
Matt: Go ahead and roll for the hide first, if you guys want to go for that.
Laura: Can I stealth and climb up and see if I can see a cavern?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: A little cave.
Marisha: Natural 20!
Travis: Oh snap!
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: I'll take it.
Sam: She gets advantage because mountains are her favorite terrain.
Laura: What do I add to that?
Matt: This would be, add your--
Laura: Acrobatics?
Matt: For climb, this would be athletics.
Laura: Athletics. Oh, really? That's not what it was; I moved it.
Liam: It was 14, I saw it.
Laura: Oh no, 12.
Matt: It takes you a little bit to get up there. It's steep, you slide down a few times. But eventually, because there's no immediate threat, you're given time to get up onto this upper platform. You can see that there are these various parts of the rock that jut outward, that have some short term passageways that this creature uses.
Laura: I'm so weak, but I'm holding to see if I see a cave.
Matt: (laughs) Roll a perception check.
Laura: (groans)
Matt: Once you're up there. You take time and with help from some other folks, you manage to harvest, I'd say about ten pounds worth of scales at most. It's not a whole lot. A lot of it has been torn and destroyed from the impact and damage you guys did. Parts of it are not really armory functional, but you manage to get enough to maybe make one set if somebody manages to work really well with it.
Marisha: Here, Grog, bag of holding.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23? Currently, you have no eye shot on any particular--
Sam: Don't eat it, Grog.
Matt: -- tunnels. Nothing that resembles an abode or a cavern from this position.
Taliesin: Lick it.
Laura: (groans)
Liam: I see my sister's struggling.
Laura: Oh god it hurts.
Liam: I climb up next to her.
Laura: You're almost as weak as I am, dude.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Here we go.
Liam: Acrobatics? What is it?
Matt: Athletics.
Laura: Athletics.
Travis: Athletics.
Liam: Athletics? Oh, shit. Acrobatics would have been much better.
Travis: Oh yeah, c'mon.
Laura: I know, I don't think so.
Liam: Can I flip up there?
Matt: Eh, it doesn't work like that.
Liam: No, no-- (all laugh)
Travis: No, I can't.
Liam: Wait, I'll use Luck. I'll do it again to get--
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: You're going to use one of your Lucks?
Liam: -- to get past that one.
Laura: No, we were about to rest. Wow.
Liam: Oh, no, I didn't.
Laura: Oh, really, you rolled worse than me.
Liam: Oh no, my fingernail, that really stings. Damn it.
Matt: The twins give a--
Marisha: Just terrible.
Matt: -- terrible display of rock climbing in the middle of this.
Travis: I laugh heartily.
Taliesin: Parkour! Parkour!
Matt: Go ahead and roll for the glands.
Marisha: The glands?
Liam: Stupid video game moment of like jump, jump, jump, jump.
Laura: Like Skyrim trying to get--
Marisha: Glands? 18 is not bad. I'll take that 18 for a 28. Hey, Vax, can I see your dagger?
Liam: Yeah, here you go.
Sam: He's up a hill.
Laura: Nice. We didn't even get up a little bit.
Matt: It takes most of your short rest. You will not be able to use your hit dice for healing on this, because you spend your time harvesting instead. But you manage to-- thankfully, the damage that Grog had inflicted upon its head destroyed most of its matter, right up to the throat gland which is mostly untouched. It's salvageable. You don't know how much it's worth. Probably a decent amount, as the book says that they're rare. Especially to find intact.
Travis: That Grog, what a dick.
Taliesin: We have jars. I'm going to put that into the jar and put it away.
Travis: There's not even like a tooth. Like one broken tooth? A piece?
Matt: You did a number on that one's face.
Travis: When Grog goes to work. LIAM Boom. Kill the behir, take its glands, money.
Taliesin: I may have something I can do with this actually.
Travis: With what, the gland?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Maybe, yes. (electricity noises)
Taliesin: You're very clever, yes. We'll work on that.
Travis: Hello? I don't speak your language.
Matt: You place it within a preservation jar.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Back in the bag of holding?
Taliesin: Back in the bag of holding.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and fix this mess, for a minute.
Matt: Go ahead and make your check.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18. It does cost you half the--
Taliesin: It wasn't a dual fail.
Matt: Oh right, just a single fail. It was a dual fail, but it was separate.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You take some time with it during the short rest to tinker with it. You manage to bend the metal back in place. Test it for a bit. Make sure the aspects that move move smoothly as they should. Eventually, you get pretty confident that it is back to a functional piece of weaponry. All right, so, as you guys finish this rest--
Travis: I'm rolling one more hit dice.
Matt: Go for it. The sky is starting to get a little bit into the orangish color. Though you can not see the sun from its current location, you gather you have about an hour and a half or so before full sundown.
Sam: Let's get out of this little taco in case that was the daughter of something else.
Matt: Wait, you guys stayed the night-- never mind, in the cavern. So actually, no, I take that back.
Sam: Oh?
Matt: I just realized you guys stayed the night last time over on the seaside cavern and walked here--
Travis: That's right.
Matt: -- and it only took you a few hours to get here. So, no, it'd be about mid-day noon.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So, I take that back. Never mind.
Liam: Ah.
Sam: We should still go.
Matt: Can see the sun, it is straight above.
Taliesin: We should still get out of the taco.
Matt: There is some cloud cover coming in.
Travis: Definitely should still leave.
Matt: From the north side, it doesn't look like anything too dense.
Marisha: Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Marisha: Do you know how much longer we need to continue on this path?
Taliesin: Honestly, I've never taken this road before. This is further east than I've ever come.
Marisha: Can we see how far ahead-- does it look like it goes on for a while, this chasm?
Matt: It moves around, so it's hard to get to much of a visual of the--
Taliesin: The geology starting to look familiar?
Laura: Does my tracking tell me anything?
Matt: You can go ahead and make a nature check.
Liam: For all of this, I'd like to--
Matt: With advantage.
Liam: -- walk about 40 feet in front of everyone and creep along.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 17.
Liam: Cloak up.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Sam: He's a weird loner, that guy.
Travis: He is.
Liam: It's my job.
Matt: Make a stealth check. The mountains here got its name for the white stone mountains. The rock--
Taliesin: It's starting to look like home, though?
Matt: Yeah. The mountain range here is a large part of the material that is mined, well, was mined beneath the-- It's very rare white quartz-like rock that is used for many purposes. And it's generally only found in this mountain range. It's what a lot of the Whitestone's original economy was based on.
Liam: 22.
Matt: 22, good to know. All right, so.
Laura: 17 on nature.
Matt: Okay. I mean, you gather the same thing. The rock formations here match the same as the coastal mountains. The mountain here is all made of the same material, few deposits here and there of just normal bits of granite and other forms of simple stone.
Laura: Granite.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Simple stone. (all laugh)
Travis: That was so much better than shopping. (all laugh)
Matt: As you guys are pressing forward, at this point, you guys are taking your time waiting and Tiberius is getting impatient, and is crossing his arms. "I feel like I should have gotten more materials. I don't think I'm quite prepared enough for this."
Laura: What? Tiberius, you prepared a lot.
Liam: Tibs.
Matt: "Not enough. Never enough".
Liam: You brought along a sack of mirrors, I think you've got enough. What do you need?
Matt: "I have an idea. I'll be back in a few days."
All: What, no?
Sam: Don't leave.
Matt: He sits down and starts making his teleportation circle.
Laura: No, no, we need that!
Liam: Tiberius.
Laura: We need that.
Liam: Tiberius.
Laura: We need that. Tiberius.
Liam: You are a heavy hitter, we don't know where we're going, what we're doing. He's strong. You're strong, in a way, maybe hang out a little bit longer.
Laura: He's actually got a lot of hit points, really.
Travis: Yeah, he's got a lot.
Matt: (laughs)
Liam: More than I do. You're stronger in frame than I am. Sure you want to go?
Matt: Tiberius leans in and whispers to you in a strange tongue and it sparks in your ear somewhere. (whispers) "The player's not here and the DM's trying to not make it too complicated for him to keep track of an additional character for this session." (all laugh)
Laura: I understand that.
Liam: (whispers) I know, but I'm just trying to give you a hard time. (all laugh)
Matt: I'll remember that.
Laura: Oh, no.
Taliesin: I grab Lockheed and we hold him hostage. (all laugh)
Marisha: You can't leave! (all laugh)
Laura: We need you.
Matt: "Don't worry, I'll be back soon and now I know how to find you."
Liam: (whispers) Send an iPad with Pike on it. (all laugh)
Matt: He finishes his teleportation circle and with a whoosh, with a flash, vanishes.
Laura: Shit. Really, Tiberius, really?
Marisha: He does that a lot.
Sam: It's very much in his character.
Laura: (groans)
Travis: Where'd Tiberius go?
Liam: He went to get an army, I think.
Laura: (groans)
Travis: That's fine.
Taliesin: Or more mirrors.
Marisha: It might be more mirrors.
Taliesin: Or an army with mirrors.
Marisha: An army with mirrors.
Liam: I can do magic. I do this great coin trick thing where I flip it on my thumb and then it lands in my hand.
Laura: And then, you pull it--
Liam: That's the end of it.
Laura: -- out of someone's ear.
Liam: It's right here.
Laura: Whoa!
Travis: We start walking.
Marisha: That's fun.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, I'm walking.
Matt: Progressing forward--
Marisha: It's a start.
Matt: -- you begin to--
Travis: Jauntily stealth ahead.
Liam: 40 feet out, yeah.
Travis: Like a beagle.
Laura: I keep a perception out to see anything.
Taliesin: I'm keeping an eye open for anything familiar.
Sam: Can I just bump into Vex and ask her to maybe scan ahead for dragons?
Laura: What do you think I'm doing?
Sam: Dragons, though. Six miles.
Laura: I'm scanning.
Sam: Don't you have six miles of dragons or something? Thank you.
Taliesin: Do you have to do the hands?
Travis: Is that your scanning face?
Matt: It's good to help out in the--
Laura: I'm thinking.
Sam: Six miles of dragons.
Laura: I'm wanting to see if I see any dragons. Do I see any dragons?
Travis: I thought you did a different technique last time.
Matt: You take a moment and anticipate the circumstance, and there is, within-- what's the distance on it?
All: Six miles.
Matt: Six miles?
Liam: Yeah, man.
Matt: You ascertain that there are quite a few sources of life in this vicinity, of some sort of dragon kin or dragon-like entity.
Laura: Was the behir a dragony sort of thing?
Matt: No. Technically not, from what you can gather, but you do gather there are a few blips that are three miles off north, at the center of the mountain range. You don't know how big or how dangerous, but you sense there are some dragon or dragon kin sources.
Laura: There's a dragony something.
Sam: Could be dragon eggs.
Marisha: Dragonborn?
Laura: I don't know, Scanlan.
Marisha: You're not picking up Tiberius six miles away?
Laura: There's dragony things, though.
Sam: Listen. When I poo somewhere, I can see everything.
Laura: I didn't poo. I'm sensing with my mind.
Travis: Listen, if we do run across a dragon, remember we have the dragon slayer longsword, which is a plus one to attack and damage rolls, and if you hit a dragon or a dragon creature, it gets an extra 3d6 of damage.
Laura: What are you reading? How did you even know that?
Taliesin: That's the most complicated sentence I think I've ever heard you speak.
Travis: Sorry, I blacked out for a little bit. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Nothing.
Laura: Nothing. You're good, Grog.
Travis: What do you have to do to attunement?
Matt: Attunement, you take a short rest with the weapon, learning its properties.
Travis: Caressing it?
Matt: Essentially. Stroking it, making sure it feels comfortable.
Taliesin: Buying it dinner.
Matt: Nice spread so it feels welcome.
Travis: That's more than I usually do.
Laura: Maybe a steak, some salad. Shrimp cocktail.
Travis: Just in case you need a sword.
Liam: As we progress, I say into my earring, Scanlan, I've seen some of the logs she's left behind. They're not small.
Laura: (gasps) You are seriously. What?
Taliesin: Wow.
Laura: That's disgusting.
Travis: I missed it. It must be good, though.
Sam: She usually buries them quite well.
Laura: Really gross, both of you. Enough.
Liam: They don't sense anything.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: Well, we're not heading north.
Sam: We're not?
Matt: You guys are heading eastish.
Taliesin: Westish. We're heading westish.
Laura: Nothing that I can sense.
Travis: Can we keep walking?
Matt: You guys came up on the eastern side-- sorry, the western side of the mountains. You're now heading eastward.
Taliesin: Oh, we came up on the western side of the mountains?
Laura: There's nothing that we're going to run across.
Liam: Just flip that.
Marisha: Western side of the mountains?
Taliesin: Western side of the mountains? So Whitestone's to the east?
Matt: Whitestone would be to the east of you guys.
Taliesin: Oh, okay. I thought we went up the eastern side of the mountains. I'm so confused. You wouldn't think I'd lived here before.
Matt: That would have brought you through the forest, and you were trying to avoid that. That's what I thought you said last time.
Taliesin: No, that's very true. Oh, god.
Travis: West side's on the shore side, right? Ocean's there?
Matt: There's a giant peninsula to the north. Either side would have been coast.
Laura: So we're not going to run into any dragons?
Sam: At least we're not going north.
Matt: You're aware that they're not anywhere close to you to currently be an issue, no.
Laura: Okay, we're fine.
Taliesin: In two or three miles, we'll take another check.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: (laughs) He winked at me!
Matt: All right, so.
Travis: It's like being blessed.
Sam: We're going to just keep going towards the town.
Matt: You guys press on, following this winding path that narrows at certain points and then widens for a bit. You come across, partway through, the twins at the front notice, around the edges as it begins to descend down into the beginning of the valley descent, you see an edge of the mountain that looks more angular than the usual natural formations of it. It almost looks like it comes to a point, like a very sharp edge, and a smooth side.
Liam: I'm not sure I understand. We see a drop-off?
Matt: It begins to descend towards the valley, and on the side of one of the giant--
Travis: Chasms?
Matt: Chasm you guys are at the bottom of. You see an outcropping ahead that's angular and pointed.
Sam: Like, designed by man?
Matt: Like it was sculpted, constructed.
Travis: That might have sentries.
Liam: Some sort of outlook or something. Something that was not formed by nature here.
Taliesin: Do I know what this is?
Matt: You--
Taliesin: History check?
Matt: I'd say, make an intelligence check. Roll and add your intelligence modifier.
Travis: I could do it with you, if you want.
Matt: You can make a history check. You know many things that exist here in the mountains, but at this distance, you don't see enough of it to actually--
Laura: (shocked noise)
Travis: He's not going to let me do it.
Laura: He rolled a natural 20.
Matt: For?
Travis: An intelligence check, because I'm an idiot.
Sam: He doesn't know the--
Taliesin: I kind of want Grog to speak truth right here.
Laura: He's an expert on mountains.
Matt: Actually, this works out interestingly. As you guys are walking forward and you're seeing this, and you're keeping back, Grog, you instinctively look over and go, oh. That's a stone giant fortress.
All: Oh!
Marisha: Shut up!
Travis: (laughs) I did something smart! (all laugh)
Matt: With your bloodline and knowing where you come from, and you've had a few close encounters in the Cliffkeep Mountains with a few of this kind, you've seen a few fortresses, and from the details of it, the way of the roof, and the scope of its design, and the way the mountain range lends itself to that type of topography, yeah. This is obviously a stone giant fortress.
Travis: Oh, and I drank some of that nasty dank in the fight with the Hammer, round two.
Sam: Wait, should we-- those are bad guys, right?
Travis: Yeah, that's bad.
Sam: We should not go that way.
Laura: We should definitely stay away from that.
Travis: Maybe go up on the other side of the chasm opposite of it?
Matt: Or you can move around the side, you're welcome to.
Laura: Maybe hide and make sure we're hidey-hidey?
Sam: We could stealth through it, we could invisible through it.
Marisha: Pass Without a Trace.
Travis: Pass Without a Trace.
Laura: I have Pass Without a Trace.
Travis: And climb along the opposite side.
Laura: And do we have invisibil--oh, no.
Taliesin: No, we don't, no.
Laura: You have--
Sam: I have some invisibility. Not great, though.
Travis: I have dust of tracelessness.
Laura: Maybe we'll stealth it.
Liam: Can I hide Scanlan under my cloak? Can he use his invisibility on someone else?
Matt: If he was to cast Invisibility on you--
Liam: No, on somebody else, so I'd just hide him.
Travis: What about one of those things that always works on me--
Matt: You could--
Travis: -- a diversion?
Matt: You would move very slow and you would have disadvantage on your stealth checks because you guys don't have a way to move quietly.
Liam: All right, all right.
Laura: No, I don't want to bring any attention.
Marisha: I could create a diversion.
Sam: What kind?
Laura: Like what?
Marisha: I mean, I could-- What's nearby? Is anything nearby? Any animals? Have we seen any wildlife?
Matt: There have been birds that fly through, an occasional harpy, in the distance you hear screeching and you guys keep quiet until it vanishes and disappears. (screech in the background music)
Taliesin: Wow.
Travis: That was perfect timing!
Laura: How'd that happen? How did that frickin' happen?
Travis: His ways are mysterious, my love.
Laura: You are magic.
Matt: I am lucky.
Taliesin: Holy cow.
Matt: What were some seafaring like seagulls and various coastal birds have slowly been disappearing and turning into more eagles and hawks, things that eat small rodents, more of a lush side of the hill. You see as you get closer to the valley itself that the actual forest that surrounds Whitestone is more and more of these birds of prey are beginning to show up. Other than that, you see very few small things other than occasional lizards about that big in your hand that live on hot rocks.
Taliesin: Should we observe this encampment for a bit, just to see what's happening as we slowly make our way around it?
Laura: Can we see any kind of movement? It's really far away, or--?
Travis: Couldn't hurt.
Matt: It's still a ways away right now, you're just catching the edge of it.
Sam: Are we a mile away? A thousand feet away?
Matt: I'd say you're about a good 600, 700 feet from it.
Liam: That's not that far.
Travis: You know, we could try to work our way up the opposite side of the chasm.
Taliesin: That would also allow us a good view of it as well.
Marisha: I happen to have Hallucinatory Terrain right now.
Sam: What does that even mean?
Marisha: It means exactly what it sounds like.
Sam: I don't speak your language.
Marisha: I can make terrain that's not real.
Liam: Do you remember when we psyched out the duergar--
Sam: It would block their view of us maybe? Perhaps?
Laura: Is it movable?
Travis: Yeah, it can't move with us.
Marisha: It could block their view of us.
Liam: Can you make some shrubs to come along with us?
Matt: You guys actually used it previously to camp for a night along a cliffside.
Laura: Right.
Matt: And made the cliff extend further than it was.
Liam: Yeah, we lured a bunch of duergar into a chasm that the ground extended over.
Laura: Let's try to climb up the other side and then see what we can see.
Marisha: I mean, I can do a lot of things, I can make a thunderstorm, I can make a sleet storm.
Sam: That would keep them in their fortress.
Travis: Could you make it fire?
Marisha: I could.
Taliesin: Or very cold if they came out.
Laura: They like cold.
Taliesin: Oh, yes.
Marisha: I could, I could make a big storm.
Travis: We're also on a chasm, so if it gets wet and slippery and muddy we might all go down.
Taliesin: That's true.
Laura: Maybe get up at the top of it and then do this.
Taliesin: I like the plan of going up the other side of the chasm.
Laura: Can we try to climb the other side?
Matt: Certainly.
Liam: Giants like to throw fucking boulders.
Laura: Yeah, I don't wanna be down on the bottom.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: As you guys make your way up the other side, you're helping each other, I want everyone to go ahead and make an athletics check.
Sam: I put on my climbing gear, which I definitely own.
Marisha: An athletics check?
Matt: Okay, giving you advantage on your athletics check.
Laura: I actually own climbing gear too, does that help?
Matt: That would help you, yes.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: I have mine too, so I'll put that on as well.
Marisha: I don't know if I have climbing--
Taliesin: I don't know if I have climbing gear.
Travis: Attached to a rope and a grappling hook that's in my hand.
Sam: And it was the same. (laughs)
Matt: All right. So.
Sam: What am I doing? Adding what?
Travis: Fuck yeah! Nipple tits.
Matt: You have advantage, you add your strength modifier. Or your athletics is what it would be.
Sam: Athletics.
Laura: Do we add anything because of the climbing gear or is it?
Matt: You get advantage because of the climbing gear.
Laura: Ah, that's important.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26.
Liam: We were all using climbing gear or just--
Matt: No, those who have it.
Laura: I give you my climbing gear because I already get advantage. How about that? Does that count? No.
Matt: Because it is mountain? All right, I'll let you do that.
Laura: All right.
Liam: All right, well, I got 19.
Matt: 19.
Laura: Oh, so you don't need that.
Liam: Yes I do, I need it.
Sam: 11.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26. Vex, what did you get?
Laura: I got 15.
Marisha: 11.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: Okay. A couple of missteps and almost sliding, Keyleth, at one point, you grasp her by the hand and Grog pulls her back up onto the platform.
Travis: No, no, up here.
Marisha: Thanks, Grog.
Matt: Over time, you guys make your way along this very rocky and precarious, anywhere from five to three to two feet in width, sometimes even lesser than that and you guys are having to shimmy across. You make your way around and you can see this large fortress that is built out of extremely large and in-place stones and stonework. It looks ancient. For size-wise, it's two stories for a giant, which means it's probably close to six or seven stories of height.
Laura: Whoa.
Matt: Built into the side of a mountain, and it goes down almost like two giant steps. It's built on essentially where the giant bowl, the caldera if you will, of where this valley of this mountain range would be. It's built on the inside of it, so it's actually constructed, as you continue to descend into the valley. Looking at it, you can see openings, windows, there are areas up top where you see giant piles of rocks and boulders that are used for anti-siege, for throwing off the top, stockpiles of that. You do see boulders around the ground that may have been thrown and not picked up. Everyone make a perception check.
Laura: I feel-- (whispers) Should I say?
Liam: (whispers) I'm not gonna tell you.
Taliesin: That's an intimidation check.
Laura: How did Trinket get up the cavern?
Matt: Hm?
Laura: Can Trinket climb?
Matt: Trinket--
Taliesin: Bears climb!
Marisha: Bears are good climbers.
Laura: They're good climbers?
Taliesin: They can get up a tree.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Roll an athletics check with disadvantage.
Sam: Disadvantage.
Laura: I'm sorry! But it felt wrong to lie.
Matt: Rangers.
Sam: Of course. It's an honor system.
Liam: Could I have given the climbing gear to Trinket?
Laura: No.
Travis: No. (all laugh)
Taliesin: You could've, it just would've been adorable.
Laura: But we could tie the rope around Trinket's waist.
Matt: Roll your dice.
Laura: With an athletics check?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Does he get an advantage because of mountains?
Marisha: I love that he says 'roll your dice' like it matters.
Matt: Nope. He gets disadvantage because he's a big bear.
Travis: I told her not to say it, why'd you say it?
Laura: I'm just trying to be honest!
Matt: Which is appreciated.
Laura: Strength modifier? He got a 15, too.
Matt: Okay. It's been difficult, and it slowed your guys' progression, but you've managed to keep Trinket along with you; this large bear is now like pushing against the side. He's managed to keep up, but it's been a harrowing experience.
Liam: I've been behind him the whole time, pushing on his buttocks.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: You got this buddy, you got this.
Matt: So, once again, perception rolls.
Laura: Sorry. Yes.
Taliesin: 20.
Marisha: 19.
Sam: 17.
Liam: Can I use passive perception?
Matt: This is active actually looking for something; the passive is more--
Liam: Well then, I get-- 26.
Travis: 15.
Laura: 19.
Matt: All right. You got 26, you said?
Liam: Yep.
Matt: Looking from this distance, and keeping the best visual you can see, there is no movement, at all, from the interior of the fortress. The two front doors, you see these two large stone doors that are the entrance to it. One of the doors is actually broken in half and left partially ajar and open.
Travis: We gotta go in now.
Laura: No, no, no.
Sam: They could be dead in there.
Laura: If something could've taken out giant giants. What could it be that could've done that?
Travis: Vampire giants.
Taliesin: It could've been the Briarwoods. We should see everything that's up here.
Sam: (sings) There are giants in the sky.
Travis: How awesome would that be?
Laura: (sings) There are big, tall, terrible giants in the sky.
Travis: Can we please go see? Can someone please--
Sam: You want me to go in?
Travis: Vax!?
Marisha: I can bird it. I can bird it and go in.
Taliesin: I can't believe I'm about to say this.
Marisha: Bird in and do a recon mission real quick?
Sam: You're going to bird in? They're going to see you fly in.
Laura: No, but she's a bird.
Marisha: I'm a bird.
Sam: It doesn't matter, they're still gonna see you.
Laura: Recon it.
Marisha: I'll go bat!
Laura: Yeah!
Taliesin: Now you're not going to be able to see anything because they have terrible eyesight.
Marisha: Not in a small--
Taliesin: I'm kidding, they really don't. That's a myth! That's actually a myth!
Marisha: They have echo vision!
Taliesin: They have actually very reasonable eyesight. That's a myth. You can look it up on Wikipedia, it's true.
Marisha: (laughs) Very reasonable eyesight.
Liam: You could also be a sparrow.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So, at about the two in the afternoon day sun, 'cause that's what it is. But you're fine. You become a bat--
Marisha: Bats come out during the day!
Matt: I know. She makes her way, down through; you swoop up to one of the windows and you glance inside and look around. You can see most of the furniture inside is in tatters. There are large, giant-sized tables and chairs that have been broken in half and strewn across the room. Make a perception check.
Laura: Ooh, come on, Keyleth!
Sam: Come on, oh yeah.
Taliesin: Oh yeah!
Marisha: Oh yeah! 28.
Matt: 28. Glancing inside you also see there are--
Marisha: (squawks) That's my echovision.
Matt: -- splatters and puddles of blood. Large bits of blood across the ground that is dried, but from your current vision from this, there is no sign of any living or individuals or bodies. There was a battle that took place here, but there is nothing present to signify who or what.
Marisha: How big is this room?
Matt: This room is about 25 feet tall
Marisha: Does it look like it goes deeper?
Matt: It does look like it goes deeper, there is a slight-- this is the upper floor, there is a grade, almost like a slow-- the word escapes me for a second.
Marisha: Like a downgrade.
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Like a ramp.
Matt: A ramp!
Sam: A slope.
Matt: Thank you.
Matt: A ramp that disappears below and into the lower floor.
Sam: A siggle.
Marisha: I'm gonna go into that-- (all laugh)
Travis: Careful. Oh no no no no! Don't roll! Don't roll! (all shout)
Taliesin: We turn on him.
Marisha: Fear of god.
Liam: Grog sacrifices the gnome. (all laugh)
Matt: So yeah, you do see the ramp, that's downward.
Marisha: I'm going to go into the room that I see is for sure empty, and go toward the threshold of the ramp.
Matt: Okay. Make your way down to the threshold of the ramp, looking down. Downstairs as well, it looks like there are some fur rugs set aside that have been kicked aside and bunched up on the edge of the room.
Marisha: Like it's been ransacked, or just a really nasty fight?
Matt: Like some sort of a major fight went down. No sign of any bodies or body parts. No sign of leftover weapons or armor from whatever giants lived in here. You just see large amounts of dried blood across the stone floors.
Marisha: Like something came in and slaughtered and completely stripped the place.
Matt: Or the giants slaughtered something horribly here and are currently out and about, you don't know. But--
Marisha: Can I tell if the blood looks-- how dusty is this shit?
Matt: Did you want to land and make an investigation check?
Sam: Call us in.
Travis: Do it.
Liam: Do it, Batwoman.
Taliesin: You are the night.
Marisha: How much dust goes pff?
Travis: (laughs) You are the night.
Matt: Quite a bit; a little puff.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Not a huge amount, but enough where it's not fresh, and a closer look, the blood's been dry for a while. Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: What is the sound of a bat coughing?
Marisha: (squawking and coughing noise)
Taliesin: Thank you. It's the simple things.
Travis: What did you get?
Marisha: Investigation. What about a 12?
Matt: 12. You can't really make it out, unfortunately. You know it's dried, it's been a little bit, but you can't quite gauge how long it's been.
Marisha: All right, I'm gonna go ahead and-- are there any other rooms, or is this it?
Matt: There's the upper floor, the lower floor. They're two large rooms on their own. It looks like-- You haven't actually gone down the grade yet, so.
Marisha: You said seven stories, so it's like room, downgrade, room, downgrade, room?
Matt: Seven stories for your size, it's two stories for a giant size. It's a large top room, and a large bottom room.
Laura: Ooh.
Marisha: Is there another room going off the bottom room?
Matt: There are just two rooms  top floor, bottom floor. You're currently on the top floor, looking down.
Sam: Split level condo.
Marisha: I'm gonna go out to the front door.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Nice flat, upper east side. Land, and I'm gonna bamf out of my bat form, and say, all right, it looks like the coast is clear if you guys want to check this place out.
Sam: Yeah, let's go check in.
Taliesin: Let's check it out.
Matt: All right, the rest of you make you way back down towards the front of the fortress and enter the inside. As you go through the front door, you see that the impact that destroyed it was from the inside out.
Sam: Oh!
Laura: Ooh.
Travis: Really?
Matt: So it's not like it was beaten in, it was beaten from the inside out.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: And there is a streak of dried blood against that portion of the door. Looking inside too, you see there are a large cluster of matted hides and furs, like it made for bedding for close to four or five giants put in the corner, and there is a musty smell of whatever they were using to make it comfortable and ripe for their own personal needs.
Liam: Stealth!
Laura: Yeah, yeah, let's stealth.
Travis: Can giants become vampires?
Laura: I don't know, I hope not. You should use the dust of tracelessness, Grog, just so our footsteps aren't seen.
Liam: 17.
Matt: 17, okay. So what do you guys want to do in here?
Laura: Stealth.
Sam: I'm going to go downstairs.
Marisha: How dark is it?
Matt: You are downstairs at the entrance
Sam: Oh. Down the grade, I mean.
Travis: I want to look for any weapons that are lying about.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Liam: I want to ransack the joint.
Matt: Actually, it'd be more of an investigation check.
Travis: Me, investigate? That's funny. Eight.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Investigate or perception for me?
Travis: I find dirt.
Matt: You find a giant's fortress.
Liam: Investigate or perception?
Matt: For this? Perception is just seeing things at first glance. Investigation is going through and rummaging through to find things.
Liam: I'll investigate.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Shall I for downstairs?
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Liam: 17.
Sam: 23.
Matt: Okay. As you guys are going through, looking at the blood and the way the splashes are, the blood that was spilled here was very thick, and large amounts of it, and it's probably been anywhere from two to three months since this entire fortress was ransacked.
Travis: Wow. MATT You do notice that some of the blood is dragged through, like something was dragged out of the puddle. But not for a long distance. Whatever was there was cleaned off at some point, or lifted up and carried out from whatever was originally pulled through those puddles of blood. You also do notice that in the pile of furs and refuse and there are bones of things that were left there to rot in the corner. You find roughly 120 gold pieces.
Sam: I give it to Vex.
Matt: Over time you find a number of shattered glass vials that look like they once contained various elixirs, there is one that is unshattered.
Sam: I take it.
Matt: All right. And underneath all, covered in quite a bit of filth, but a little bit of metallic sheen streaks through, you see what looks to be a very, very well-crafted longbow.
Laura: (gasps) What is that?! What is it? What did you find?
Sam: Nothing, nothing.
Laura: What is it? What is that?
Liam: Here you go
Laura: Ah, what is this?
Liam: What are you going to do with it?
Laura: What is this?
Sam: I'll use it as a hammock.
Liam: Shoot yourself?
Marisha: Does it look like it's magic-y?
Laura: Can I tell what it is?
Matt: Taking it, it appears to have some sort of magical radiance to it. It looks like it's very well crafted. You recognize the construction is elvish in nature.
Laura: Hey, look at this.
Matt: And there are bits of mithril scrolling all throughout the bow itself, with platinum caps on the edge of the longbow.
Travis: Is it evil?
Laura: I don't know. Keyleth, do you know anything about magic-y stuff? Tiberius bamfed out.
Marisha: I can try, I'm not as good as he is, but I'll try.
Laura: What about you, Scanlan? Do you know anything about arcana?
Marisha: Ooh, 20!
Matt: Natural 20?
Marisha: No, 18; 20 total.
Matt: Yes, this is definitively a magical item, it is enchanted.
Marisha: It's definitely magical.
Matt: If you want to take a short time to work with it and attune yourself to it, you could get a better idea of what its effect is.
Laura: Okay. Thank you. Can we do that?
Taliesin: I'm going to look around a bit more, anyway.
Laura: I'm going to think about it real hard.
Liam: Probably shoot a couple dummy arrows out of it
Travis: Can I walk out the front door?
Laura: I'm going to buy it a steak and I'm going to--
Travis: Can I walk out the front door and keep post on the porch?
Liam: I'm following Grog and I'm doing the same.
Matt: All right.
Travis: And I want to look in the direction we want to be walking.
Taliesin: I'm looking around, I'm trying to find out what happened to the bodies.
Matt: Investigation check for that. Here are the potion and the bow you guys managed to--
Laura: What is it, what is it?
Sam: I took the potion, I took the potion!
Matt: (laughs) Give that to Scanlan.
Taliesin: I know, apparently, from this roll that I'm in the mountains.
Laura: What is it?
Taliesin: I got a six.
Matt: A six. It's hard to tell. It's a very strange scene, and you have no inclination as to what may have transpired here. Who is the winner, who is the loser, and what has been done with the bodies.
Liam: Sorry.
Marisha: What did you find, what did you find?
Taliesin: Vex is making happy noises.
Liam: She's taking the bow for a spin.
Travis: She's attuning.
Liam: Seeing what it can do.
Travis: Do we see anything outside on the porch?
Matt: Over time the only thing you catch is occasionally you see flocks of birds moving through and swooping through the area. You watch one flock come up and begin circling a little bit.
Laura: Should we get out? Should we leave?
Matt: And then make its way down toward the valley.
Travis: Stealth.
Laura: Just leave. Let's leave. Stealth it out? Stealthy out-ie?
Matt: This is for Grog who is outside, roll a stealth check.
Liam: I'm out there too, and I rolled a natural 20.
Matt: Yes you did.
Travis: I might use your inspiration on this.
Sam: It's probably not in effect anymore.
Laura: (groans) No, you're in the mountains!
Travis: I am in the mountains.
Matt: Which means you have knowledge of mountains.
Laura: You don't get advantage?
Travis: I don't have advantage on--
Matt: Let me double-check on this, actually, what the specifics of the goliath's-- You don't take issues with cold climates, because you're at high elevation. You don't actually get advantage on anything mountain-wise; that is a ranger ability.
Travis: So can I add an inspiration on this?
Sam: I inspired him quite a while ago. How long does that--
Matt: It's been a while, how long does that last?
Sam: 20 minutes?
Matt: Yeah, that would've faded by now.
Travis: That's a one.
Matt: Oh, well, if it's a natural one it wouldn't have mattered.
Liam: Yeah, it doesn't matter, you can't add shit to one.
Matt: So while you sneak off to the side, you see these birds. There's a lot of birds there! You start yelling out to everyone, there's a lot of birds out here! Shouting it loudly back into the fortress.
Laura: Aw, shit.
Marisha: Grog, Grog, those might be centurion birds!
Travis: (loudly) That's what I said, birds!
Marisha: They might be spies! They might be spies.
Travis: (loudly) Yeah, I spy birds, they're flying everywhere. (yells) Go away!
Laura: Grog, Grog, inside.
Marisha: Inside!
Matt: The birds immediately start circling the fortress very close. You can hear the screeching. You can see the birds now, they're crows. A very, very thick murder of crows, probably close to a hundred of them, cawing.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace.
Marisha: Wait, wait, wait.
Sam: I'm still down there, investigating.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Sam: I pull a David Caruso and say, It looks like these giants had... big trouble. (all laugh)
Matt: You hear an echoing sound, yeahhhh! Formless, sourceless. You all stand there confused for a moment, then continue to try and stealth.
Travis: I run back inside.
Matt: Back inside. Eventually the crows take back to their original path.
Marisha: Oh, oh, but before the crows leave, before the crows leave--
Liam: Yeah?
Laura: Yeah?
Marisha: Can I do something?
Matt: Yep. What are you doing?
Laura: Do it!
Travis: Do it!
Sam: Kill them all.
Marisha: I'm gonna go like Storm and I'm gonna Sleet Storm them. I'm gonna start conjuring a Sleet Storm over the top of this mountain, right where the crows are.
Taliesin: It's been so long since you've killed something innocent! Let's bring it!
Laura: Do it, do it, Keyleth!
Matt: As Keyleth concentrates for a second, you see her eyes, the actual color of her irises, begin to fade to this cloudy white and then the entire eye itself becomes this icy blue. A slight cold mist beginning to drift off the corners of her face.
Laura: Badass.
Matt: You start hearing this pounding sound on the top of the fortress as sleet and hail begins to rain down. Go ahead and roll damage for the spell.
Marisha: Oh, jeez.
Matt: Sleet Storm? Oh, it's just a dexterity saving throw. It says heavily obscured, but doesn't actually do any damage.
Laura: But it knocks them all down.
Marisha: I know, they're like frozen though, right? Don't they get frozen with Sleet Storm?
Matt: Sleet Storm knocks things prone, makes the area hard to see.
Marisha: Knocks them prone
Matt: Douses flames.
Marisha: They're in the sky, I wanna hear birds hit the floor.
Matt: And a few do. There are a few birds that get pelted and knocked to the ground, encased in sleet, but most of it immediately takes note to get away from the storm and vanish and disappear back to--
Travis: Do they fall to the porch?
Matt: I'll say one does.
Travis: I run out there and I grab it.
Laura: No, no, no!
Travis: I rip its head off with my teeth. (all laugh)
Matt: Grog, you run out there and grab the one on the ground, it's struggling, and (squawks), there's ice gathered everywhere.
Travis: Yeah, shut up!
Matt: You grab it and you pick it up, you hear Vex go "Grog!" and you go (chomp) as she's staring at you. Silencing the crow. You hear the cawing of the crows dissipate in the distance and silence eventually takes the fortress once again, and you're left amongst the smell of death.
Laura: We should get the eff out of here.
Marisha: I think so.
Taliesin: We should probably leave.
Laura: Now. Stealth and out.
Laura: Dust of tracelessness. Hide ourselves.
Travis: Dust of tracelessness.
Matt: You make your way out of the fortress and begin to follow the path down into the outside of the forest and just as you make towards the base of the mountains where the forest canopy begins to take your vision, you can see just over the edge, a couple of small castle towers and what looks to be a single central spire of the castle of Whitestone.
Laura: They know we're here now. They know we're here.
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: I think they might.
Laura: That was a sentry.
Travis: Why? They were just birds.
Marisha: Yeah, but we don't know--
Sam: Don't worry, we still have the element of surprise. Oh wait, no, we don't.
Matt: And with that, we're going to go ahead and take a break. All right, guys, we'll be back here in about 20-25 minutes.
Laura: Oh yeah!
Matt: Let us begin where we left off.
Laura: Oh, we're looking at the city.
Sam: There's the city! Shall we storm it?
Taliesin: It's a chalkboard.
Laura: I was pointing at you!
Taliesin: Well yes, so I can now recognize where we are.
Matt: Yes, you know this area very well. This entire forested area, the Parchwood Forest that encompases the entirety of this valley, toward the center of it, center north, is where Whitestone sits and for your reference as well, since you've been here before, you would know the city relatively well.
Sam: Maps!
Taliesin: This is the most exciting map I've ever been handed. Whoa!
Laura: What the what?!
Matt: Hold that over by your seat there for people to take a look at.
Sam: Don't. Just don't.
Taliesin: It won't fit in my folder.
Matt: That is a basic rundown of the size, design and shape of Whitestone, with Castle Whitestone toward the top, built on top of a leveled off mountain that marks the southernmost point.
Sam: This is the castle, this is the town?
Travis: And we're at the southern part of that?
Matt: You guys are actually coming in from what would be the northwestern side of the city
Marisha: So over here?
Matt: A little bit further down. About that angle there. That's the direction you're coming in from.
Travis: That's a detailed map, man.
Matt: I don't have any free time anymore. (all laugh)
Travis: They sell those stock, right?
Matt: Oh yeah, totally.
Taliesin: What's this little outcropping?
Matt: The little outcropping to the east of it was the graveyard to Whitestone. It's where most of the regular denizens were interred. It's been expanded over the years as the city itself has been around for quite a few generations.
Marisha: Does this graveyard have catacombs? Tombs? Underground passages?
Matt: Do you ask this of Percy?
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: Does it?
Matt: That graveyard does not--
Taliesin: That graveyard does not--
Matt: -- it is a surface graveyard.
Taliesin: -- it is a surface graveyard.
Matt: There is a mausoleum--
Taliesin: There is a mausoleum--
Matt: -- but that--
Taliesin: -- but that--
Matt: -- is actually contained beneath the castle.
Taliesin: -- is actually contained beneath the castle. (all laugh)
Travis: Riveting.
Sam: So knowledgeable, Percy.
Laura: So Percy, do you know of any secret passages to get actually into the castle?
Taliesin: I was wondering that myself.
Matt: There is one, one that you took to escape.
Taliesin: Yes, there is one!
Marisha: (laughs) Stop.
Matt: He has an aneurysm. Yeah, it is to the very western edge of the mountain precipice the castle was built on. It was built to be specifically an escape in case the place was under siege. Unfortunately, the circumstances that the evening happened so rapidly, and with creatures that seemingly were unnatural, the family didn't have time to make it out. And even you weren't fully aware of it. Cassandra, however, had overheard discussions about the passage and took that as your escape route. It's a hidden tunnel at the very base of the mountain.
Taliesin: I say we scope out the hidden entrance, see if it's guarded, see if they've discovered it.
Sam: To the town, or to the castle?
Taliesin: The hidden entrance to the castle. Instead of using it, I think we should possibly spend the night and get a view of the town, see if there's anything unusual.
Laura: I agree, can we camp out and hide?
Sam: Watch from afar? What's that going to tell us?
Travis: We could send one in.
Taliesin: We could send a bird in. Or an invisible gnome.
Sam: Or both.
Taliesin: Or both. An invisible bird-gnome.
Travis: Just to see if the town is normal or not.
Sam: It could be all vampires. Or it could be a totally normal town.
Taliesin: If it's all vampires, it'll be empty right now.
Sam: Because it's daytime.
Laura: Because it's daytime.
Marisha: We should do a fly-by.
Laura: We should definitely attack during the day.
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: We should send one by air and one by land.
Laura: What?
Marisha: Do you want to do that?
Sam: How far away are we?
Matt: You guys have been travelling through the forest, and it is a very dense forest, but it is mostly cold-weather trees, pines. And there is, you can see once you get inside the forest, the ground itself is very thick and there are elements of melting snow on the top of the trees, there was recently a snowfall in this area but it seems like it's been a while and most of it has turned to slush and water. You have about two hours of travel into the forest, and you all immediately catch the sound of distant howling.
Sam: Is it nighttime?
Matt: No.
Sam: Oh. That's scary.
Marisha: Distant howling? Does it sound like wolves? Can I make a nature check?
Matt: Yeah, make a nature check.
Laura: Stealth?
Matt: If you want to make a stealth check
Marisha: 26.
Matt: 26. Those are wolves. It sounds like a pack of wolves, probably close to anywhere from five or six.
Marisha: Would I think it's weird that they're howling during the daytime?
Matt: You gather that it is strange that they're out. Though it is getting later in the day, you are pushing four or five in the afternoon, the sun is starting to get closer to the horizon. It is strange that they're out this early, you're not sure what the reasoning would be for that.
Marisha: Odd.
Taliesin: I say we hide in the trees.
Laura: Up high.
Travis: Like up in the trees?
Laura: I like it.
Travis: We're gonna climb some trees.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: We're gonna Hobbit this shit.
Sam: We're just hiding in the trees, we're not going in to investigate?
Taliesin: Well, it's about to be nighttime, so we'll send a scout.
Sam: How long would it take to get into the town from where we are?
Matt: About two more hours of travel.
Sam: Ew. We'll get there at night. That's all right though, it's early evening.
Marisha: How long would it take me to fly over if I was a bird?
Matt: About an hour.
Sam: Vax.
Liam: Yes?
Sam: Can I ride you into town?
Liam: You want me to jog into town?
Marisha: You could ride me into town.
Sam: Well hello lady.
Marisha: Man, every time, Scanlan, every time.
Taliesin: Now that just got weird.
Laura: Could you turn yourself and fly?
Sam: Yeah, I guess I could fly.
Marisha: You wanna go invisible and jump on my back and I can eagle up?
Sam: Whatever you're into, baby. (laughs) I've become Austin Powers.
Laura: Ridiculous.
Marisha: Let's do it.
Liam: If the coach driver was any indication, there are going to be people--
Laura: Normal people.
Liam: -- in town.
Sam: What about this  I'll make us both invisible and you fly us in.
Laura: I like it.
Travis: Yeah, get on the ground, not just above.
Matt: All right. Now, Invisibility  how long does it last at full duration?
Sam: Looking. Up to an hour. Ooh, and it takes two hours just to get there?
Matt: Well, flying takes an hour. So, it's one of those things you could do once you approach it. It'll last you awhile, as opposed to doing it now.
Sam: How long can you be Polymorphed for? Forever? Concentration?
Marisha: For half of my druid level, we discovered.
Matt: So somewhere around six hours, five hours.
Sam: Okay, so you fly us in, and I'll Invisibility us right as we get to the gates.
Travis: And as they're going out, we get in the trees.
Taliesin: Make sure you bring an earpiece.
Marisha: He's got an earpiece.
Travis: Do we, the four of us, all go up in the trees?
Liam: Everyone get your own tree.
Laura: Everyone get your own tree?
Matt: Everyone who's in a tree, please roll a stealth check.
Sam: Except for Trinket, who can't climb up.
Laura: Trinket can climb trees! Bears climb trees!
Matt: Roll an athletics check.
Laura: I'm casting Pass Without a Trace. How long does it last?
Sam: You have to roll for Trinket.
Laura: Okay, fine! I guess I'll cast it tonight, never mind.
Travis: Plus ten to stealth?
Laura: Why are you being a dick, Scanlan?
Matt: Well, she did not cast it.
Laura: I'm not casting it yet.
Travis: 14.
Laura: What are we rolling?
Travis: Stealth.
Liam: I already did. Those are good rolls!
Laura: 21 for me, and what do I-- just nothing. 19 for Trinket.
Matt: Okay. We'll say you guys all manage to slowly get yourself up into the tree the best you can, as you guys take off. While you guys are away, making your way towards Whitestone, the rest of you look down, and just from a passive perception standpoint, you pick up the most detail: you can see there is indeed a pack of about five wolves and/or dogs a little ways away, but they're being followed by one humanoid. They're being guided, there is a pack out here for some reason, whether it be a hunting party or whatever other reasons there may be. It isn't a wild pack.
Laura: And they're close to us now?
Travis: I've been doing the dust of tracelessness.
Laura: So, I'll cast it on us now that they're closer.
Marisha: I wonder if that's the ground search party.
Laura: Maybe.
Travis: We'll see.
Laura: So, should we add ten to all of our stealth rolls that had been, or do we have to roll again?
Matt: You'd have to roll again.
Laura: Shit balls.
Liam: So we're stealthing again in the tree?
Matt: Because she's casting Pass, or you won't get the benefit.
Liam: I'm already at a 32, man!
Travis: I'll take it.
Laura: You don't have to.
Liam: Let's do it, let's roll again.
Taliesin: Let's roll again.
Liam: What do we add?
Laura: Ten to whatever we roll.
Matt: Go ahead and just add ten to the previous roll. (all cheer)
Liam: Good.
Marisha: We want to keep our good rolls.
Matt: So, about five breathless moments pass as the dogs, wolves all get relatively close. One of them comes up and returns back to the pack. You don't get a good view of the individual that is currently guiding the pack, and you see them disappear between the thick trees in the distance. Make an active perception check for you, Vex, if you don't mind.
Laura: Not advantage. Mountains?
Matt: Is forest? No, you're in forest, now.
Laura: Oh wait! That's another!
Matt: You're sure that's a favored terrain? Then go ahead and roll again.
Laura: That was worse than the first one, that's great.
Matt: So your total is?
Liam: I rolled 20.
Laura: Okay, well, you didn't say you were doing it. 18.
Matt: 18, okay. It's hard to make out the details at this distance. You check out, it does appear to be a female form.
Laura: Oh, it's a chick!
Matt: Best you can tell, you can't tell specific race or details. Then, another minute passes before the barking and the howls fade and the hunting party seems to have been eluded.
Taliesin: There was no way to get a good look at who it was.
Matt: No. Do you want to make an active perception check?
Taliesin: Actually, I would love to.
Matt: Normally, if they'd passed by now--
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Travis: What?! Really?
Matt: A natural 20?!
Marisha: I'm looking at it!
Taliesin: This is an 'I love you' for those awful rolls earlier.
Travis: The golden snitch wins again.
Taliesin: That may be its name now.
Matt: You see the female form, it's not someone you particularly recognize. But the woman does appear to be older, probably in her late 40s, early 50s. She has some hunting gear over her shoulder. She has a short bow that's strapped over her, she has a quiver of arrows. She looks like she's hunting for food.
Sam: If she was a little older, Tiberius would kill her. (all laugh)
Sam: Give her ten years.
Matt: Give her ten years.
Taliesin: I don't recognize her, though?
Matt: No, you don't have an immediate lead of visual recognition. In the meantime, you guys make your way. Swooping down, you can see that cluster, that murder of crows circling out. It's making a large pass over this entire valley. You take this cue as you get to within visual range of the city to cast Invisibility on both of you. Is that a 3rd-level spell?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Okay. Both of you vanish from view, which is a strange feeling for you because you cannot see Keyleth, you're grasping onto something you can't see.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Matt: And you just look like you're gliding through the air.
Sam: Can I do one of these?
Matt: Yeah, you grab on very tightly.
Marisha: (choking noises)
Matt: -- without choking. The eagle does not have--
Sam: Damn it!
Matt: -- human physiology. You get two fistfuls of feathers. And you really don't want an eagle to buck you angrily at this height. I don't think you have Featherfall so that wouldn't go well. Looking over Whitestone, you can see outside of the city there are some areas where the trees are carved out, and there is farmland set up specifically to grow food and to till to maintain sustenance for the people that live there. You can see that there's a small area that's also being cut for timber. Not a perpetual thing, but the wood here is, you've heard previously, one of the major exports here is very high-quality timber from this type of tree that is used for very exquisite woodcraft and furniture. So that's one of the major exports of Whitestone as well as the quartz from the mines itself. There are people in the city, but sparse. Make a perception check.
Marisha: Can I also make a perception check?
Matt: You may.
Marisha: With my eagle vision?
Matt: (singsong) You may.
Marisha: 14, so that's 24. And I have Keen Sight, which means I have advantage on all perception checks.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Marisha: I'll take that 14.
Taliesin: She'll take that 14.
Marisha: As opposed to that one.
Matt: Total of 14?
Marisha: 24.
Matt: 24. Okay. As you get close enough to start scanning over details, you can see that a lot of the buildings appear to be closed or empty. There are people working in the fields. As you make your way to the center of the town, there is a town square. There is a tree there, a very large, old tree that is twisted, with all these various gnarled branches that reach out. You recall Desmond mentioning something called the Sun Tree that is the centerpiece of this area. And you get a view enough of the tree to see that there are eight humanoid bodies of varying ages swinging from it.
Sam: Ooh.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: You also notice that, patrolling through the city at very slow paces, there are a few larger than normal humanoids.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: You see what appear to be approximately six giants patrolling through the town, but you can see some of them are like wrecked and broken. One of them is missing an arm and is dragging a foot behind it.
Laura: They're zombie giants?!
Matt: Apparently, whenever one of them is moving through, most of the denizens of the town keep a very wide berth, and generally avoid them entirely and go about their business, at a distance.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: I miss Pike.
Travis: Six?
Sam: No problem.
Matt: Like over all of the entire city. They're pretty well scattered about. After you do a full pass over the city, those are most of the details you can make out at this height. Anything further, any specifics, you want to go for before heading back?
Sam: You want to set me down so I can go talk to people?
Marisha: You want to talk to people?
Sam: Well, or at least eavesdrop. We don't know if they're all vampires or not.
Marisha: Does it look like there's a central part where there's a lot of people gathered?
Matt: Farmlands look likely to be the largest cluster of people. You can see, since it's getting to the end of the day, there are folks finishing up gathering the crops that were available to them or sort of planting as they go through. And you can see there's about five or six people that are all in one group. Most everyone else seems to be relatively solitary and trying to go about their business as fast as possible.
Marisha: The town square's emptying out?
Matt: The town square? Nobody is in the town square. People are avoiding it like the plague. There's eight bodies hanging from the tree, and nobody wants to be there.
Marisha: All right. I'm going to swoop down and find a tree, where the five or six farmers are, and perch, see if Scanlan can get a good--
Matt: There actually are no trees by the farm, all the trees have been cleared out to make the farmland. So there's actually a bit of the forest that's been cleared for that purpose.
Marisha: It's just open and empty.
Matt: Yeah. You can go to a tree that's nearby, but that's like 300 feet away.
Marisha: A rooftop? A wall? Anything I can perch on?
Matt: There is a wall. There is a wall on the outskirts of Whitestone.
Marisha: I perch on the wall.
Matt: Okay. You swoop down and you perch on the edge of the wall there. It's about 25 feet up.
Sam: I'm just going to walk down there. I won't be able to see you, so I'm going to leave a little--
Marisha: I'll keep an-- Oh, wait, I can't see you.
Matt: And you can't talk right now, you're an eagle.
Sam: I leave a little, like a canteen or something, right where she's perched, just so I know where to find her.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Smart.
Taliesin: Leave the mug.
Sam: Yeah, my stein. And then I'm going to walk down and see if I can stealthily eavesdrop on some conversations.
Matt: Okay. You make your way down the 25-foot wall she's perched on.
Sam: Oh, shit. Am I going to fall?
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check to climb.
Taliesin: You say that out loud?
Sam: Athletics?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: 17.
Matt: 17. The stonework here is old and you manage to not lose your footing entirely as you bring your way down. Thankfully, you're light enough, and the stones are not too large, so you can get some good handholds. You do, over the next 12 minutes or so, make your way to the base of the wall.
Sam: It took me 12 minutes to climb 25 feet?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Nice. I suck.
Marisha: Maybe whistle for me when you come back.
Matt: A lot of moments of (gasps) 'whoa, okay'. But, you catch yourself. I mean, you can just jump if you wanted to make it less. But, the duration of your invisibility-- you have about 20 more minutes before it dissipates.
Sam: Oh shit, I have to do this quick.
Matt: You look over the edge, and you can see that they have carts up and that they have what vegetables they have, and a lot of vegetables, even at a close look, a lot of them look withered. It looks like there is a general sense of frustration that the land itself is not producing quality crops. And even the people look unhealthy and gaunt by nature. Whether it be the cold winter recently or just their general spirit is broken, but there is a feeling about these people that life here is not what it used to be. There isn't a whole lot of conversation, there's mutterings here and there. "We have to make sure we get these back in time. Fill the cart, we have two carts we have to get in." And the other one's, "I know, I know, I'm trying," And they're putting it over there and there's a little bit of frustration among them.
Sam: He's doing walla. (all laugh)
Matt: One of them ends up counting the last bit of crop. "That's it, that's all we have. That is the entire pull for the day." And the older gentleman, who is overseeing it, grinds his hands and goes, "Sir Kerrion is going to have my hide."
Sam: Wait, wasn't that one of the people--
Matt: "At the very least, let's gather it together and hopefully Pelor will protect us." And the people take the carts and begin making their way towards the outer gate on the southeast side of Whitestone, where you guys are currently at.
Sam: Okay. I'm going to hustle back to the roof.
Matt: All right. Make an athletics check.
Sam: Jesus.
Marisha: I can come get you.
Taliesin: You'll hear a thump.
Sam: Eight. (all laugh)
Liam: Hopefully he lands on his lute.
Sam: No, it's nine.
Matt: Okay. 15 minutes. After five minutes of eavesdropping you realize that you are not going to make it up that wall, and you feel the magic of your Invisibility illusion about to fade. At this point, by the way, the sun has just hit the edge of the mountains, the sky itself is a vibrant, reddish orange slowly turning to purple and sunset is upon you.
Sam: I want to spend the night here. No.
Marisha: Can I see him?
Matt: He's invisible, no.
Sam: I will sneak around the corner a little bit, wait for an opening, and I lose Invisibility, which will drop it on her as well, and I will Dimension Door back up to the roof.
Matt: Okay. As you pass to the side, the illusion fades, you step into a small opening of dark, purplish energy and then reemerge on the top of the wall--
Matt: Grab the canteen.
Sam: Grab the canteen.
Matt: --and hop back on the back of her.
Sam: Oh, shit. Invisibility again.
Matt: Okay. Okay. You guys vanish, and Keyleth, you take off back in the direction you guys traveled from. In the meantime, guys, what do you want to have been doing? Are you just waiting, are you traveling further in, are you staying where you are?
Travis: (snores)
Taliesin: We have to wait.
Laura: Yeah, keeping an ear out for the wolves and just chilling in a tree.
Travis: (yells) I fall out of the tree.
Laura: And also, I'm restringing my new, awesome bow.
Matt: With the--?
Laura: With the blazing bowstring.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Which, by the way, is a longbow of sky sentinel.
Sam: Sky sentinel, what does that mean?
Laura: Once per long rest, I can use a Storm Arrow, which means that the next arrow I fire splits into three arrows. Roll an attack for each of them, they all get 1d6 extra for each one that hits. It's amazing!
Sam: Every time you use it, or is at a one-time--
Laura: It's one time per long rest.
Marisha: That's awesome!
Matt: Once per day, she fires an arrow and the arrow splits into three, and each one bursts into thunder damage, bursts of them.
Laura: Say what?! So, is it lightning damage or is it--
Matt: Thunder damage. It should say on there.
Laura: It says lightning damage.
Matt: Oh, then it would be lightning damage.
Marisha: It's a taser arrow.
Taliesin: It's basically a taser.
Matt: So yeah, it's pretty fun.
Sam: Thunder!
Laura: Thunder!
Matt: What's that from?
Sam: I don't know.
Matt: So, the night falls and the crickets begin to emerge, the slow mist begins to form.
Laura: Wait, our friends aren't back yet. It's already night and they're not back?
Liam: I just want to say that I pulled my hood down, and put on my calamari hat, and pulled the hood back over it.
Matt: Okay. So you take the partially rusted over, but functional, metallic skull cap that Clarota was wearing when you guys met in the Underdark, that Clarota no longer needs.
Travis: Because he's dead.
Matt: You place it on your head and it's a little loose. As you place it on, it rattles for a moment, and then it form-fits to your skull. Your hair being pinched beneath it and just emerging from underneath, almost Loki-helmet-style.
Laura: Looking snazzy, Vax.
Travis: Nice bonnet.
Sam: (imitating Clarota) I'm on your head.
Matt: There's a weird buzzing vibrational feel as its magic attunes to you over the next hour or so as you're waiting, but you get the sensation that it will offer some decent protection from impeding charm effects.
Liam: It tingles.
Laura: It looks like you have a mullet.
Liam: Yeah, dude.
Matt: A Loki mullet. You start to get really nervous about the arrival of your friends, until eventually you hear the flapping of wings. You look up and you can see, since it has taken an hour to get there, the illusion just fades, both a giant eagle and Scanlan appear in the moonlight, right above the canopy of the forest you guys are close to, and return to the place you were.
Laura: Keyleth, question. Can you make it look like we're not here with your foliage shit?
Marisha: I drop my Beast Shape, holding onto a branch.
Laura: You know, the illusions.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Good, good.
Laura: Can we camp up in the tree? So nobody can come towards us.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: What if we fall out?
Marisha: I Druidcraft some spiderweb hammocks.
Laura: Ooh.
Taliesin: Sticky.
Marisha: And, as usual, light some sage.
Matt: Takes about an hour or so, but you manage to pull from the surroundings these really nice, thick spider silk hammocks, that should be able to support your respective weights. Grog is the only one that might be questionable with the sheer amount of weight that is his form.
Travis: I like it.
Marisha: Maybe take a rope and tie it.
Travis: Nope, this is a trust exercise.
Laura: I'm using Hide in Plain Sight to make me and Trinket extra, extra hidey.
Liam: I have a question. The only reason I have this question is because I posted that video from a couple of years ago. Do I still have the unending rope?
Laura: I have the unending rope, motherfucker.
Liam: Why don't we reinforce with the rope?
Laura: Sure, why not.
Travis: You don't like the trust exercise?
Laura: That's where all the rope comes from that we ever use.
Liam: I'm sorry I brought it up. I'd love you to fall on your head.
Laura: Let's reinforce the spiderwebs.
Travis: No, I'm good, thank you.
Marisha: Whoa, Vax. Nice helmet. Don Quixote called.
Liam: Aerodynamic, isn't it?
Marisha: He wants his bowl back.
Sam: Before we slumber, we did a little intel, a little recon.
Laura: Oh, yeah. What's up?
Sam: Turns out the town is full of humans, except for these six vampire giants-- zombie giants.
Marisha: They all appear to be fairly miserable people.
Sam: However, this could be useful. Everyone in the town, the farmers anyway, seem to be gathering produce to deliver to the Briarwoods. We could pose as some sort of farmer troupe with a basket of goodies, and maybe get through the front gate.
Laura: Don't you think they would know all the farmers around at this point? They've been there for a long time.
Marisha: They did reference Sir Kerrion by name. Oh, they referenced Sir Kerrion, Percy.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Sam: We could make ourselves look like some of them. One of us has a hat of disguise.
Marisha: Also, there was something other really important.
Sam: What?
Marisha: The town was pretty much empty.
Sam: Oh, yes, this.
Marisha: And that Sun Tree, that what's-his-name-- Who said that? Jarett?
Matt: Desmond.
Marisha: Desmond. Looks like there were some executions that took place. There were about eight bodies hanging from that tree.
Laura: Why is it called the Sun Tree?
Sam: It's really lovely. I don't know, maybe it gets sun.
Marisha: I don't know. Why do they call it the Sun Tree?
Taliesin: Can I go with this? Unless you have a particular reason to--
Matt: I mean, you can go with-- There are maybe many reasons it's called the Sun Tree.
Laura: There's reasons. Maybe we need to battle them at the Sun Tree.
Taliesin: Legends say that before the castle was built, that the journey into the valley was treacherous and stormy, and the original builders of Whitecastle feared they would die. And this one, great tree stood in the valley, and it was underneath it that they took shelter. And as they began to take shelter, the storm broke. And the storm did not return until the castle was completed.
Sam: That's a lovely story.
Taliesin: We hold our festivals there every year.
Sam: And now it's being used as a--
Taliesin: As a gallow, yes.
Laura: Does it get a lot of sun?
Matt: You do know, and this ties into your story as well, because the guidance in forging the city of Whitestone, that tree was representative to them as a guardian of Pelor, the god of the sun. The protector of light, holiness--
Sam: Who that?
Taliesin: A very serious god.
Travis: That could help.
Laura: That could help us, because vampires hate the sun.
Sam: Why would they make camp in the place where the god of the sun--
Laura: Maybe that's why they're hanging bodies from it, to taint it.
Liam: Maybe that's why it's protected. Maybe--
Sam: Are any of us religious with that god, or--?
Marisha: Can we call Pike through your magic poo?
Laura: Would she be able to hear us?
Taliesin: Tablet of Apple?
Sam: I can at least see what she is up to.
Liam: Keyleth, would you be able to revive the tree?
Laura: (gasps) Bring it back.
Sam: What would that do?
Marisha: Yeah, I can, actually.
Laura: I don't know. Bring up the god of the sun again, I don't know.
Sam: We're not religious people. We can't summon the gods willy-nilly.
Liam: We can please Pelor.
Laura: Don't tell us what we can and can't do, Scanlan.
Sam: I'm sorry. We can do all of those things. Yes, let's go in the middle of the vampire-infested town and do some arbory to try to heal the tree, and then we'll just say, oh, sun god, please rain down sun here.
Laura: I like it. Let's do it.
Sam: That's a great plan.
Travis: Can we at least try cutting down the bodies and running, and seeing what happens?
Sam: We could.
Taliesin: I say, in the morning we take a look at the passage, see how well-guarded it is. And if it looks dangerous, sneak our way into the town. If people are not enthralled, if they are being forced to work, then maybe we can find some allies.
Marisha: Find allies in the town?
Taliesin: I don't think they're happy.
Laura: I think they're terrified. And I don't want to let them know we're here, for fear they'll turn us in, in hopes of saving their own necks.
Marisha: That's what I'm thinking. Yes, they're terrified, but this whole town's being ruled by fear.
Liam: I have a feeling we can revive that tree somehow. It may weaken the Briarwoods' hold on the psyche of the villagers here.
Laura: This is true! It could help out. Let them know the god of the sun is on their side.
Travis: I heard you're supposed to pee on a lemon tree, so.
Laura: Probably you and Scanlan are on that, I have a feeling.
Travis: Can I make a nature check to see if that's true?
Taliesin: I really wanted to ask. What does peeing on a lemon tree have to do with anything?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: 19! That's 17.
Matt: In your experience with the roving band of barbarians, you guys enjoyed very much peeing on very colorful trees, of all sorts of plant life. All of them, generally, didn't seem to, over time, react well to the process, whether it be the fact that you all drank a lot of the time, so the content of your urine was probably not very hospitable.
Liam: It's known as a lemon party. (all laugh)
Matt: That's a whole different kind of festival.
Marisha: You killed Percy.
Laura: You killed Percy.
Taliesin: Thank you for bringing the text chat all the way back around.
Travis: Operation tree rescue.
Matt: The lemon party is held on the far, far southern continent of Tubgirl, the region of Goatse.
Travis: I have an idea. Should we wait until the sun comes up, create a distraction, so all the undead giants come looking, and then we have someone go cut the bodies off the tree, and--
Laura: And bring it back to life!
Travis: -- let Keyleth give it a little love.
Marisha: And then what happens after that?
Travis: I don't know. It's an experiment, all right?
Laura: Then we get the fuck out.
Sam: Won't they know we're here? Won't the people see us doing things?
Marisha: I know. I feel that's the equivalent of putting dish soap in the fountain on prom night.
Laura: No! Didn't you say that all around the Sun Tree nobody's there?
Marisha: Yeah, we did that. What?
Laura: Didn't you say nobody's around the Sun Tree?
Sam: That's true. But we still have to get in.
Laura: We'll fly up and over. You just did the same thing.
Sam: I know, I know.
Laura: Fly up and over, land, bring the tree back to life, get out.
Sam: Are you sure you don't want me to be a carriage driver, and you'll hide in the hay of my carriage and I'll go straight up to the Briarwoods.
Laura: I feel like they know all the townspeople.
Sam: I will put on my hat of disguise, I will be someone completely different.
Travis: They can see through that.
Liam: I'm telling you, they looked right through me.
Laura: When he was invisible!
Liam: Invisible. They saw me.
Laura: They probably saw you!
Sam: So while he was transparent, they saw through him?
Liam: No, but I was heavily stealthed.
Laura: No, you were invisible.
Marisha: Oh, wow!
Matt: No, the invisibility faded when he attacked the guard.
Liam: When I beaned the guard. They should not have been able to see me.
Sam: I'm not talking about getting past the Briarwoods. I'm talking about getting past the guards that guard their castle.
Marisha: Here's another issue. It's going to take me a minute to do the tree.
Laura: How long?
Marisha: It might take a bit.
Laura: How long's a bit?
Marisha: Well, I mean, it's one of those things where the longer I do it the better it'll be. I can do it for up to eight hours.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Marisha: If I do it for up to eight hours, I enrich the land over half a mile radius, centered on a single point, and the land becomes enriched for a solid year.
Laura: I don't want to enrich all of the--
Liam: Question. What time was it when they were doing their little scouting thing they've just told us about? The sun was going down?
Matt: Yeah, they probably would've gotten to Whitestone around seven o'clock, and leaving right as the sun had fully set.
Laura: If we go right when the sun goes up--
Liam: Yes, we get there at sunrise, take those fucking beasts out, and you start at eight AM.
Sam: But then what?
Laura: We just sneak in. Here's the thing. I don't know if you want to get all the crops all fancy, because it'll just feed the Briarwoods. Maybe just do the tree area, which will be like two hours, maybe.
Marisha: Yeah? I think if I have a solid hour or two hours with it.
Sam: Once the tree is healed, we have no one of religious power to summon any god. We don't know anything about this god, none of us do!
Taliesin: I do, in theory, if I'm from--
Matt: Go ahead and roll a religion check.
Taliesin: A which?
Matt: A religion check.
Laura: A witch?
Matt: A witch.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16? Okay. Pelor is the god of the sun and agriculture. It's a good deity and is generally worshipped by farmers and simple folk and people that live off the land, and generally it's the most nature-based deity of the main spectrum, outside of Melora, which is the deity of nature.
Marisha: Oh. Well, dope! Would I know stuff like that too, then?
Matt: You know of Pelor, yeah. There are elements of Pelor's following that bleeds into your druidic nature, though you don't necessarily follow a deity.
Marisha: Right. We're free.
Matt: You believe that the essence of nature in itself is your patron.
Marisha: Totally.
Matt: You are not a religious man by nature, and you know that there is a strong following of Pelor in the town. The entire graveyard that you talked about earlier, that one is largely built around the imagery of Pelor. And of all the gods that are worshipped here, Pelor's probably 75% of the population of Whitestone where, in some shape or form, if not devout worshippers, at least were like, yeah, Pelor's cool.
Marisha: Here's my question. I feel Pike's energy tonight. Maybe, while I'm meditating, I can somehow reach out to her, and maybe ask her to get in touch with Sarenrae, and maybe Sarenrae can call up her homeboy Pelor.
Laura: Do you think that works?
Marisha: I don't know.
Travis: This is like phone a friend?
Marisha: We're not organized religion people, we Ashari.
Liam: The tree is called the Sun Tree. It's Pelor's tree. I'm not a cleric of Sarenrae, but these shitbags could not have set up camp in a temple of Sarenrae because there is too much goodness there, as there was around this tree in this town, and it's why it is dead. It's why it's being surrounded by a bunch of giant undead things, as you described. You need faith, Scanlan Shorthalt.
Sam: Me? I am the antithesis of faith.
Liam: Then you need to shut up and let us fix that tree.
Sam: And then what?
Travis: Who knows?
Sam: We're going to fight off a million monsters to heal a tree, and then we're going to say, "Okay. Bring out the sun," or something.
Marisha: Hang on! What did you just say?
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: That thing you just said that no one heard because we were all shouting and arguing? Rally the townsfolk?
Taliesin: Rally the townsfolk. This is something I think-- I don't think that sneaking in is necessarily the answer. I'm not saying go in, guns blazing, but I say we let them know--
Marisha: You want to build a militia?
Taliesin: I want to build a rebellion.
Laura: I like it. They would recognize you, wouldn't they, Percy?
Taliesin: I have a plan.
Travis: You have a plan?
Sam: Does it involve healing the tree?
Taliesin: It does.
Liam: I don't think there is any sneaking in, thanks to those birds, so we make a stand out here.
Travis: Tell us your plan.
Taliesin: My plan is, we do our best to sneak in, we find cover. Obviously, you said there's abandoned buildings. We find cover. We heal the tree. I have some other ideas. We take those zombie giants out one by one, quietly.
Sam: We're going to be insurgents?
Travis: Shh! Let him finish the plan!
Sam: I kind of love this.
Taliesin: Okay.
Marisha: It's like Attack on Titan. That's cool!
Taliesin: Let's start finding our friends, and we start making friends. We let them know we're back.
Laura: I like it.
Marisha: I like having the people. It feels less like we're the United States.
Travis: Okay, where do we start?
Taliesin: I have some parchment. I have the thing I want to build, while I'm in the tree. It's very simple, and I want to show you what it is.
Matt: What is it?
Taliesin: I want to take some gunpowder and basically--
Sam: Make a pipe bomb.
Taliesin: Basically attach it to a piece of parchment. I want to wet it into a piece of parchment and let it dry so that when I set fire to that piece of parchment, I get a burn scar. I'd like to create a burn scar.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: Yeah, that's totally doable.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a tinkering check, just for the sake of a possible epic failure.
Marisha: A burn on yourself?
Taliesin: No, it'll scar anything. It just creates a very high heat.
Sam: Like a mark?
Marisha: Like a brand.
Sam: Like our mark.
Taliesin: Like a mark.
Sam: Like our mark.
Taliesin: Not our mark.
Sam: The resistance.
Taliesin: The resistance.
Sam: I need a beret. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I rolled a 23.
Matt: While the rest of you end up taking your evening's rest, Grog, you immediately snap your hammock and fall 15 feet to the ground.
Travis: (pained groan)
Matt: But you manage to make your way up there and just bear hug the tree trunk for rest. You're used to sleeping in uncomfortable situations.
Liam: I throw five or six pine cones at his head.
Matt: Over time, or at once?
Liam: At once.
Travis: Fucking gravity.
Matt: You manage to complete three pieces of parchment, roughly page-sized, with your black powder treatment, successfully. The mist rolls in and gets thicker and thicker, to the point where you cannot see the floor of the forest. The little bit of moonlight that manages to make its way through the boughs of the trees trickles through and then vanishes into these slowly-shifting bits of fog. Your breath, every time you exhale, is visible, as the cold night air begins to take. You find yourselves instinctively shivering, as you cannot grow close to each other for heat, nor build a fire. The night, while uncomfortable, you do manage to get an evening's bit of mostly uncomfortable rest, but rest nonetheless. Eventually coming to as the morning sun comes up and heats it up, the fog begins to fade away and burn away. You're at about an hour past sunrise as you all unrestfully come to consciousness as the temperature shift hits. You manage to relieve yourselves of your spider silk-based hammocks and/or tree grasping. Both you and Trinket have found this way of clutching onto the tree. Trinket's used to the wild.
Travis: This is, like, sunup, right?
Matt: It's about seven, 7 30 in the morning.
Sam: Can I do a quick scry back to the poo jar that I left back in our kitchen?
Matt: Certainly.
Sam: Just to make sure that our home base is okay.
Matt: You take a moment and concentrate on the kitchen. At this point in time, you can see early morning. Laina is currently in there, yawning, and is cleaning about and starting to make a small breakfast for all the guards. You can hear in the distance, some conversation in the distant room. It appears to be a couple of your various employed mercenaries having a conversation as she's making breakfast.
Sam: So they're fine.
Matt: They seem fine.
Sam: So I knock that one off, and I'll try for Pike.
Matt: Okay. Concentrating on Pike-- about two minutes of hard concentration. There's no connection.
Sam: They wiped my poo away.
Matt: You gather, due to the relatively fresh and unstable nature of this potion you had concocted, you can only have one source connection up at a time, so when you left it in your keep, it seems that the one you had at the temple of Sarenrae was alleviated of its magical presence. What was once a magical scry poo is literally just Scan-scat at the temple.
Sam: Which some could argue is magical in its own right.
Matt: Sure enough. With a high enough persuasion roll.
Laura: Teacher. Teacher.
Taliesin: Does it change color when it loses its power?
Matt: You don't know.
Taliesin: Damn it! I want to know.
Sam: Only one way to find out.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: Ask Pike when you see her again. (laughs)
Taliesin: Your poo power may come in very handy. This is good to know.
Travis: Let's go find an abandoned building and set up.
Liam: Could we throw in a Scanlan grenade and be able to see through it?
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: A scat grenade.
Liam: A scat grenade.
Sam: Sure.
Liam: Scatlan.
Marisha: Scatlan!
Taliesin: Scatlan!
Sam: I could get in, shit in their bedroom, and leave.
Liam: You shit in your hand, and you toss it.
Sam: Oh, yeah. That, too! Pull the pin. (all laugh)
Laura: Yeah. Remember that. That's awesome.
Travis: This is what happens.
Laura: You could fly overhead with Keyleth.
Sam: Yes?
Laura: Drop it like a bomb!
Sam: And then we'd have eyes in there.
Laura: I like it.
Sam: I like this a lot. Give me something to eat.
Marisha: What?
Sam: I need some fuel.
Travis: Holy crap.
Laura: I have a sweet potato right here, Scanlan.
Sam: Sweet potato? That's good, yes. Some prunes?
Marisha: Yeah, something hearty.
Liam: All right. We're off the rails.
Travis: Step one of this.
Matt: So, you make your way down into the forest. About another hour and a half of travel before you start getting to where the trees begin to clear up a little bit, and you can see the base of the cleared-off mountain that Whitestone Castle is built upon, and the pathway that descends into the outer wall of the city of Whitestone.
Laura: How far of a travel is it down into the city?
Matt: It's maybe a quarter mile.
Laura: So we can do that a little amount of time.
Matt: Space-relation-wise, you guys are just getting to this side of the forest right there. Right there, and this is the mountain.
Laura: So if we're going to try stealth this shit in--
Travis: Do we take the stealthy one or the invisible one?
Sam: Wait.
Marisha: Wait. Wait. Which plan are we doing first?
Travis: First part is getting an abandoned building.
Laura: So that we can be near the tree to protect you.
Sam: So that we can be townspeople.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Right?
Taliesin: So you can get a beret.
Travis: Abandoned building, part one.
Sam: We're setting up shop.
Laura: Get into the town.
Travis: So who goes and finds the abandoned building?
Sam: Percy is known here.
Taliesin: Which is why I'm going to be wearing-- I haven't been seen in years, and when I was seen, I was much younger, and honestly--
Marisha: Yes, but the Briarwoods knew who you were.
Taliesin: I had different hair. Yes, they do.
Marisha: The Briarwoods recognized you instantly.
Taliesin: They did, which was disorienting.
Sam: But they're not on sentry duty.
Travis: We need a forward operating base, so who wants to be stealthy or invisible and find an empty building?
Liam: Question  for the Assassin path of rogue, at 9th level, if I have seven days, which is way too much time, I can impersonate anyone I want. In half a day, could I just be a dirty nobody?
Matt: Yeah. You'd be able to disguise yourself.
Sam: We also have the hat.
Matt: The disguise kit?
Sam: His hat of disguise. Percy knows this town. Perhaps Percy should wear the hat.
Travis: Does it require attunement?
Sam: Just a few minutes, I think.
Taliesin: I already have the hat.
Sam: Yes, you had it from the dinner party.
Taliesin: I've been trying to think of what sorts of buildings would be the most defensible and the least likely to arouse suspicion. Things with basements?
Matt: A lot of the houses have basements. There are varying degrees of it. There are larger homesteads that were reserved for the actual nobles that ran the day-to-day life of Whitestone when your family was in power. As you heard from Desmond, probably the places where the new nobles live. Those are the ones that have the gates surrounding them: the larger homesteads scattered throughout the town.
Taliesin: That's too obvious.
Matt: It's far too obvious. There are many small abodes and even some farm-based hovels. The poor end of town is the farming side, which is the southwest, which is the closest area to where you guys made your stop earlier.
Taliesin: I would almost say a shopping district. If there's an abandoned storefront.
Matt: The shopping district is the center of town around the town square.
Laura: Around the Sun Tree?
Matt: Yeah. Right there.
Taliesin: Might be too close.
Sam: Before we go marching in there, finding an abode to live in is not going to be too difficult. We'll need food.
Laura: Are we living in there?!
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: We're not going to be there for long.
Travis: We have dried food rations.
Taliesin: We have food rations. We have options.
Laura: We've got food for days.
Sam: We might be there for days and days.
Laura: We've got food for days.
Travis: We've got dried food rations.
Sam: We also have to go around town and, forgive me if I'm going too far with your plan here, but aren't we trying to win allies among the people?
Taliesin: I have a plan.
Sam: But we'll need to communicate with them. How?
Laura: He has a plan.
Travis: He has a plan.
Sam: (sighs) All right.
Travis: Come on. Drop your pants and get with the plan.
Marisha: What time is it? Have we gone to sleep, or are we waking up?
Matt: You guys are awake. After this discussion, I'd say it's about 8:00 in the morning. 8:30.
Taliesin: Let's make our way in.
Liam: This is the time.
Laura: We should stealth in.
Marisha: Are we doing the tree thing right now?
Matt: Actually, your travel to the city and you're on the outskirts of it now. It would be closer to 9:30.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Yeah. We try to get in.
Taliesin: We find a place to at least set up our operation.
Marisha: Well, that's what I was going to say. Do we want to find operations, try and recoup--
Liam: We don't really know what we're going to find this morning. Those big guys could still be there; we don't know.
Taliesin: We don't.
Liam: We don't know if there are people in the pocket of the Briarwoods here.
Travis: It's like 12% of a plan.
Marisha: If we take a day to get in and get settled, I can do a Heroes' Feast and then I start crack of dawn in the morning?
Liam: I think that's a good idea.
Taliesin: Let's get in and set up.
Liam: Hole up. Let's find a place.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: Wait, we're just going to walk into the city?
Taliesin: No, we're going to stealth into the city.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: We're going to cast Pass Without a Trace on everybody.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Beard check?
Travis: That was an eight.
Matt: Stealth?
Travis: Beard check.
Matt: Oh. (laughs) Your beard is pretty much at the fullest it'll ever be. You gather you can probably get a little more thickness to it, but your beard is at maximum, Grog. The fact that you even have a goliath with a beard is a feat of magic in its own right.
Travis: Amazing.
Liam: You would be a freak.
Travis: Is it like that Vidal Sassoon commercial? Whip it.
Marisha: That's dope.
Taliesin: Isn't that dope?
Sam: Grog, I've heard that no one in this town wears a beard.
Laura: Oh, natural 20 on stealth!
Travis: You can forget it. I won't go in.
Matt: So you guys are traveling as a group. I need stealth checks from everybody.
Taliesin: Do we have Pass Without a Trace?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Can we each take a little bit of time to look more like commoners?
Taliesin: I'm wearing my hat, too.
Travis: Look like commoners?
Sam: I rub dirt all over my face.
Travis: Shit, I'm a goliath.
Laura: Plus, we have a bear.
Sam: You should try to look less handsome.
Marisha: Yeah, we do look like quite the motley crew.
Liam: I'm wearing a natural 20.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Did you roll a natural 20, as well?
Liam: I did.
Matt: Both of you guys rolled natural 20s in stealth?
Liam: Had a little help with Luck, but I got it.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: That's really good, because I rolled a one.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: We've got Pass Without a Trace, so 28.
Taliesin: 11.
Marisha: Still a failure.
Travis: Are we all going together? Are we not sending one person in to go find an empty building?
Sam: We're all going together.
Matt: You guys are all going together. You dirty yourselves up a bit. You're still a large goliath. You're still a few half-elves, a gnome.
Laura: There's still a bear.
Matt: Outside of illusion magic, you're still going to stick out like a sore thumb.
Laura: Could we cast illusion magic? Do we have it?
Sam: What's illusion magic?
Liam: I'm walking 50 feet in front of everybody else.
Laura: Seeming! To make Grog and Trinket look like commoners.
Liam: I'm 50 feet in front of everyone else.
Laura: Yeah, do that!
Marisha: Oh, yeah! Seeming us?
Sam: Sure. All right. I will cast Seeming on us.
Matt: This is a legit use of Seeming, too. Okay.
Sam: We'll all look like dirty--
Marisha: As opposed to the cows? Come on.
Sam: -- dirty, ragged peasants.
Matt: Trinket, as well?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Trinket looks like a donkey.
Laura: No, he'll just be a really drunk peasant.
Marisha: A donkey. A mule.
Sam: Can I just say this? Can we just leave Trinket behind--
Laura: No!
Sam: I don't want to walk in there with a bear!
Laura: He'll look like a fucking donkey, or he'll look like another commoner.
Sam: I think I can only make us all look the same.
Laura: Then he'll look like a fucking commoner.
Matt: Of similar size. I believe, as far as Seeming is concerned-- If not, then I'll allow it for the purposes of this.
Laura: He'll look like a commoner--
Marisha: A Clydesdale!
Laura: -- a weird commoner.
Travis: Leave the bear.
Taliesin: A milk cow!
Laura: I'm not leaving a fucking bear on the outside of town where there's hounds around, and there's fucking vampires and birds flying around, fuck you!
Sam: Oh, wait, no! You can give each target a new appearance.
Matt: Yep!
Sam: So I can make everyone look a little different.
Matt: Each creature can seem a foot shorter or taller, or appear thin, fat, or in between.
Marisha: Make him look like a milk cow.
Matt: You can't change their body type. So, Trinket will still be a four-legged creature, but you can make him look like a different four-legged creature.
Laura: There you go!
Sam: Okay. He's a milk cow.
Liam: Real talk, real talk, Scanlan. My sister will cut you.
Travis: Or do you want him to be a donkey, something we can move. Milk cows are slow.
Liam: Bring the bear.
Taliesin: Donkeys can move more quickly. This is true.
Sam: All right. Donkey.
Laura: All right.
Sam: He's an ass.
Matt: All right, so Trinket takes on the form of a donkey.
Laura: (laughs) So are you darling, so are you.
Travis: Just like her owner.
Matt: The rest of you are a smattering of various humanoids, you--
Laura: (fake coughing)
Sam: I make myself look like a weird hunchback, sort of, not all there.
Matt: Okay, so you guys look like pretty rough peasants, dirty faces. You know, hair a little razzled. It looks like you've been living the harsh life on the outskirts of the slums of Whitestone for quite some time--
Travis: I wanted to be a model.
Matt: -- with a donkey.
Taliesin: (goat bleat)
Matt: So. You guys, utilizing your stealth checks and the Seeming, you make your way up to the-- which side of Whitestone are you coming in from?
Taliesin: Thank you for the double 20.
Matt: Percy?
Laura: Where are we coming up?
Taliesin: Coming in from the west.
Matt: Okay, so you come into this entrance here. You make your way into the center of town, blending in best you can. There are a few folks who see you enter, just give you a strange look. You all are unfamiliar to the denizens of Whitestone--
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: -- but you don't look like a threat, per se. So you are noticed, and some people seem to just stop and watch you pass, but no one seems to make any active mention, note, or change in behavior towards it.
Travis: Are we checking buildings while we're walking through?
Laura: I have passive perception of 21; I'm always looking.
Liam: I walk over to just one random person on the street and say, anyone hiring hands? On farms?
Laura: Our farm burned down!
Matt: (laughs) Make a deception roll. I'll give you advantage on it because the Seeming does give you the visual perspective of being close to their type.
Liam: That is a four-- No, hold on--
Laura: No, no, no.
Liam: I'm gonna use Luck, that's the Luck.
Travis: Was the first number gonna be a 40?
Liam: No, it's not 40. So it's 14.
Matt: Okay. That's two Luck rolls, by the way, that you've spent.
Liam: Yeah, I know.
Matt: The woman you approach who's probably in her early 30s, pale blonde hair, looks like she actually might be losing it in some places, gives you a look and goes, "You poor people shouldn't be here."
Liam: We just need some work.
Matt: "You'll find it, but you're not going anywhere else. Welcome to Whitestone." She turns around and walks back, joining arms with apparently a man that she's paired with, and the two of them just walk away, a bit dumbfounded that people walked into Whitestone. As this happens, you glance over your shoulder and you see coming from the northern edge from this side wall-- (sounds of booming footsteps)
Laura: Oh, we should avoid that shit!
Matt: A very tall, noticeably undead giant with its jaw broken off and hanging from the hinge, dried, caked blood across its chest, it's just dragging this large club behind it.
Liam: Where are we? What are our surroundings right now?
Matt: You right now, you're in a T. To the right and left are roads that go along the inside of the wall that surrounds Whitestone, to the front of you is the path that leads further into the city.
Laura: Let's go into the city!
Travis: We casually begin--
Taliesin: I wanna head through the city, possibly in the direction of the cemetery.
Matt: Cemetery's over here.
Taliesin: Yeah, I wanna head in that direction.
Matt: All right. So you guys make your way through--
Laura: Keeping an eye out for, you know, buildings that look clustered and abandoned that we can hide in.
Taliesin: What's changed?
Matt: What you've noticed has changed is, one largely, the population is far more sparse than you recall. What was once a bustling city, you're now seeing about half as many people as you would would see this time of day. Going through, everyone seems to be in relatively poor health. There are a few buildings that look long-term abandoned, immediately in this area here, in the outskirts, catches your guys' eye. You do notice that the corner lamps that you had set up at the different corners of the streets appear to be shattered.
Travis: Interesting.
Matt: There would be like, you know, glass oil lanterns that at night someone would go around and light them after the sunset. The posts that hold them now are all either broken, or the glass itself has been shattered.
Marisha: They want it to be really dark.
Taliesin: They want it to be really dark. I'm also thinking about that cemetery.
Sam: We're not gonna live in a cemetery, that's super creepy.
Marisha: As opposed to all of the other things we've done?
Taliesin: Everything here is super creepy.
Laura: Is there any other abandoned buildings around?
Marisha: As opposed to sleeping in the Underdark?
Matt: There are plenty of buildings that look dark and mostly untouched in this section here, as you begin to move closer and closer inward.
Taliesin: Let's get east of the center square and set up camp.
Laura: Okay. Where's the castle? Is it on the top of the--
Travis: It's north.
Laura: Oh, it's that thingy? Okay.
Sam: We're trying to shoot for here?
Matt: Okay. You guys move this way, as you push towards the center of this here. You--
Sam: You speak Giant, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: You move past the center here and to the left of you, you can see the town square and there it is, the Sun Tree. Very, very large, you imagine beautiful tree at one time, full height was probably about 40 feet tall. The branches twist out, and almost look like they're hanging loosely, the ends, everything looks droopy and desolate; there's not a leaf on it.
Marisha: Can I do some sort of a check from a distance to see if I can recognize what kind of tree it is?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Marisha: 18.
Matt: Okay. It's hard to tell from this distance, there are a number of types of trees it could be. It's not indigenous to this land. The fact that it grew here means that either it was transplanted, or it was some sort of--
Marisha: Magical grower.
Laura: (sings) Divine Intervention!
Matt: -- magical creation for its presence.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: And you do see the silhouette of the eight figures slowly swaying from beneath the branches.
Travis: We continue on. Don't pay too much attention to it. Find a place to post up.
Marisha: Right. Don't get emotional.
Laura: If you, if you do your nature-y spell from inside a building, does it still do the same thing or do you have to be next to the tree while you're doing it?
Travis: That's a large radius, right?
Marisha: So the way the spell works, I can do it one of two ways. I can do it instantaneously, essentially grow up a whole bunch of plants and brush and shrubbery around me, or I can wait and I can concentrate for a while and instill a plant with vibrant--
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: -- life energy and heal the farmlands and it would stretch out for a really far radius.
Laura: Let's keep moving.
Marisha: I'm gonna probably wanna do more the second one.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Do it from inside a house.
Matt: Did you guys want keep moving down this path, to go through the square, closer to the tree, do you want to go southward?
Marisha: I don't know, it's a central point.
Laura: We avoid the tree a little bit and just keep going straight.
Matt: Okay, so you're going this way.
Laura: Yeah?
Liam: There's a larger building, isn't there? I can't see--
Taliesin: Actually, I would say let's get a good look at the tree, let's walk by it.
Sam: Oh, we're gonna walk by the tree?
Marisha: Look like it's no big deal.
Travis: I know.
Matt: You guys turn left, and you make your way towards the town square. And as you enter the square, looking around, you can see there are what would have been carts and small booths set up for selling of meats and other goods, what was a small, you know, barter-and-sale based hub of this town-- nowhere near on the scale of Emon's bazaar, but you know, enough to support this town-- desolate. All look to be closed down and untouched for quite some time. As you get a closer look to the-- actually I'm gonna have you guys all roll perception checks. You're not getting too close to the tree.
Travis: Five.
Sam: Nine.
Liam: 26.
Laura: 19. No, that's a-- yeah, 19.
Marisha: 14.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: As you guys are keeping on the outskirts of the square, it's hard to make out the details, and the weathering has muddled the figures that are hanging there. Percy and Vax, you guys notice the figure on the far left--
Liam: The body.
Matt: The body on the far left has red paint smattered across its face and its arms. It's wearing a dirtied, green, vest-like robe that dangles below it as it hangs there, loosely. Immediately to the left of it you see what looks to be the body of a child. The child is dressed up in a purplish, billowing shirt, very fine silk shirt and pantaloons, and is dangling there next to it. To the left of that you see what appears to be a female, adorned in greens and browns, looks like red paint has been driven through the hair, and dangles to the left of that figure. Next to that, you see what appears to be--
Taliesin: I am walking the fuck away.
Matt: -- you see what appears to be another woman, dressed in dark blacks and browns, leathers, some furs across the top, dark hair, dangling. To the left of that you see another man dressed similarly, dark greys and blacks, long dark hair, dangling. To the left of that you see a rather large man, older, rotund, probably in his forties, clothing padded but mostly open chest, hair completely shaven bald, it looks like there are dark scars placed across the face, hanging. To the left of that you see, this figure is actually not humanoid, you see what appears to have been--
Marisha: Oh my god.
Matt: -- a recently hunted bear, who is dangling.
Marisha: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Sam: Wait, what? Is that us?
Marisha: It looks like us.
Travis: What?
Marisha: It's us!
Sam: They killed people they thought were us, or they killed--
Liam: Or it's a message.
Sam: Or it's a message to us.
Marisha: Do they look like us or were they just dressed like us? Are they made to look like us?
Matt: Do you want to get closer and look?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm a little curious--
Travis: Do you want to get closer and look? Are you sure--
Taliesin: Is there anything around the tree other than us?
Travis: They're probably watching the tree.
Taliesin: Is there something at the base of the tree, is there anything?
Matt: From what you can see now, nothing but just rocks and stones and piles of loose cloth rotting below it. Approaching, it looks like each one of these bodies has been dressed up. It looks like the color in the redhead's hair has been smeared through with paint. It looks like the person who has been painted red has been slapdash. You gather with a moment of looking at it that these were not individuals that were caught this way. This was set up as a message.
Laura: (whispers) My god.
Sam: Oh shit.
Laura: Keep walking, keep your head down and keep walking.
Marisha: Oh, my god.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Marisha: Oh, my god.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Sam: You mean in town? Of course they are!
Travis: No, remember they have to, like, be where the soil they came from is?
Laura: No, they have, like hideouts, they don't have to be where the soil they came from is.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Sam: Holy shit.
Liam: They're in their keep, buried deep.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: You guys continue past, down this pathway. There's other buildings you see in the vicinity that, you know, look abandoned or for the most part unoccupied. I'd say about one in every three buildings looks like it's in disuse.
Liam: Did we see this big building right here as we walked by? Yeah, that big one.
Matt: You guys came-- made this path-- you can see a little bit, you can see is a--
Taliesin: I should know what it is, anyway.
Matt: -- iron fence, it used to belong to one of the noble families of Whitestone. Each one of these large buildings here, these three, and you remember this, were the three families that ran the town.
Taliesin: We can't go anywhere near those buildings. We have to stay as far away as humanly possible.
Marisha: Question. You said there were eight bodies?
Matt: Eight bodies.
Marisha: Is there one that looks like a gnome cleric and one that looks like a dragonborn sorcerer?
Laura: That was the first one.
Matt: The one's painted all red--
Travis: The one's painted all red--
Laura: There wasn't a gnome cleric one there.
Matt: No. There was a bear.
Liam: There was no cleric when we faced them before. All of us who stood against them in Emon.
Travis: We're all there.
Sam: Body of my guy. Is he sort of handsome?
Marisha: But, it does mean that it was because of when they saw us in Emon--
Matt: Think of an eight-year-old child.
Laura: It was a kid, yo.
Sam: Oh, it was a child? Oh, god.
Marisha: -- because Tiberius wasn't here with the crows.
Travis: No, it was because of Emon.
Marisha: It was because of Emon.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: So, can we get like a vague idea of how long these people look like they might have been here?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: (whispers) Fuck, I'm not good at this shit.
Taliesin: Can I help?
Matt: Sure. It would be advantage on that check for you.
Marisha: Oh, that, you know, that wasn't bad. Woo!
Taliesin: Oh! Never mind.
Marisha: I'll take that 19, 21?
Matt: 21? You gather these bodies have probably been here for the better part of a week, week and a half? There is some mild decomposition starting to settle in, there is a bit of bloating to some of them. Couldn't have been much longer than that.
Sam: A week? That's before we set out.
Marisha: Why would they put a warning for us here in the city?
Sam: They assumed we would come, but they don't know that we're here.
Taliesin: They invited us.
Liam: Those birds might have told them we were here.
Sam: This was a week ago, this was before we were even close.
Travis: Let's stick with the plan.
Taliesin: Sticking with the plan.
Sam: Let's go find a building.
Taliesin: Going to go find something that's a decent distance away from the three noble households, that has a reasonable view of the tree.
Travis: Yeah, 150 feet from the tree.
Matt: That would probably be somewhere in this vicinity here, as the three main houses are right there.
Taliesin: Something with a second-floor view, but with some distance.
Travis: Preferably three bedroom, three bath.
Matt: (laughs) I'd say make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Meh. Six.
Laura: Can I look out too, I've been on the lookout for a building the whole time!
Matt: Yeah. I'll say, I'll say it takes the better part of the next hour or so, and you do a little bit of meandering to find it, you guys are being stealthy best you can through alleys and such, but even so you are out in the open, midday, but you are also, you know, under Seeming.
Marisha: Does it look like there's a covering nearby, roughly, 30 feet or so from the tree?
Laura: 30 feet?!
Sam: 30 feet?
Matt: No.
Sam: What about 150?
Matt: No, the tree is out in the center, and essentially the nearest building is probably anywhere from 100, 200 feet away from it. It's the tree out in the middle of the square, and the square, which used to have probably more things towards the center, more temporary establishments, have all been put to the sides and put to disuse.
Sam: Maybe underground stuff.
Matt: You do manage to see what appear to be what was once a tavern or an inn of some kind that is silent, closed, the doors locked and chained. The windows look dusty.
Laura: Can we sneak in the windows, so it keeps chained?
Matt: Okay. You go around the side of it, to the alley.
Taliesin: Dust of tracelessness.
Laura: Yeah, Dust of tracelessness.
Sam: Are you guys going in?
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: This is where we're going to hole up.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I kind of want to talk to the tree.
Laura: Then go talk to the tree, Keyleth.
Matt: The window is locked.
Sam: Wait, not now. Not now.
Travis: No, no, no, no, no, not yet.
Sam: Let's find a place first.
Travis: Let's post up first.
Liam: What am I, stealthing right now, or checking for--
Matt: Continuing your guys' stealth as your going, this would be your attempting to unlock the window.
Liam: Oh, unlock, okay. So that's a 22.
Matt: 22, okay. It takes a bit to jostle it in a way, because the lock is on the inside, but there are ways that you could shimmy the glass and get something underneath to push it aside. You manage to get the window open, and as you pull it up the dust billows up around you, you set it aside. You step in and the place smells stale, musty. Dark. There are, you can see, candlesticks set around that have not been lit for a while, and the oil lanterns that normally light the interior of the main tavern social area have been long in disuse.
Laura: Is there a cellar here?
Matt: If you guys want to look around. Are you all going in?
Taliesin: Yeah, we're all going in.
Travis: Yeah, we're all going in.
Matt: You as well? Or are you talking to the tree?
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Come inside.
Marisha: Does anyone want to come talk to a tree with me?
Taliesin: Not yet.
Laura: Not yet, not just yet.
Travis: Don't bring that-- don't mess with that thing.
Liam: Yeah, come with us. Keyleth, come with us.
Marisha: All right, all right.
Travis: Once we do it, it's like ringing a dinner bell.
Marisha: All right, all right, all right, I'm coming, I'm coming.
Sam: I'm gonna look for a brothel! (all laugh)
Taliesin: That's going to be the saddest brothel.
Marisha: The saddest brothel!
Matt: You find your way inside the abandoned tavern. And it is what was this giant L-shaped building, right here in the corner of the town square. There is a second floor, approximately runs 20 rooms. They are all currently unlocked, some of them left open, the bedding covered in dust, some of it looks like it was left in a hurry.
Travis: Yeah, we'll take it.
Matt: There is a cellar.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You find the cellar, and down there, there are a number of empty barrels, and a couple of ones that are still full.
Sam: Ooh!
Matt: One that appears to be a heavy whiskey barrel, probably about twenty untouched wine bottles. A little bit of ale, but it looks like a lot of ale was either completely used, or taken with whoever left and abandoned the premises.
Laura: I think we can definitely use these for explosions, if we need them.
Marisha: Ooh!
Sam: Or to drink.
Taliesin: Muscle relaxers. Is there a view of the tree?
Matt: Going from a number of the rooms up top, not every room has a window, but it's like every third room on that side of the building does have a view of the entire square.
Marisha: Can I get an eye as to how far away it is?
Matt: I'd say probably about 200 feet? 250 feet?
Laura: Can you go invisible and still talk to the tree?
Marisha: Hmm?
Sam: I can make her invisible if she can talk to the tree.
Laura: Can you talk to the tree if you're invisible?
Matt: If you cast a spell while invisible, unless it's Greater Invisibility, then it will drop the illusion.
Sam: I can make her invisible.
Marisha: I got an idea.
Sam: We can burrow under, we can--
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: -- find something closer.
Marisha: Actually, what are we up to right now? Are we doing anything? Are we busy?
Sam: Well, there are windows on the first floor, right?
Matt: There are some windows in the tavern; there was one on the second floor.
Laura: We're in the cellar, that's why I went to the cellar.
Marisha: Oh, there's a cellar?
Sam: I'm gonna just find some old rags, or anything I can find, tablecloths, and just cover the windows.
Laura: But make it not obvious, because it doesn't want to look like we covered the windows.
Sam: True.
Liam: I've watched you pass through solid stone and earth. How long can you do that for?
Marisha: I mean, I can burrow us a tunnel right now.
Laura: Do it!
Liam: Can you get us close to underneath the tree?
Laura: That's what she's going to do.
Marisha: I'm going to do it right now. I'm going to cast Move Earth.
Laura: From the cellar.
Matt: You're going to start carving a tunnel--
Marisha: To the direction of the tree. And I want to be careful, I don't want to damage the roots of the tree at all. So, as I start getting closer, I want to start looking for the roots of the tree.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough to find old rags; all of them have that stale, musty towel scent to them. You get them a little wet. There's no water here; all the water here has dried out.
Sam: We use the wine.
Matt: You'll have to use the wine; it'll probably kill some of the bacteria. There are wells throughout the towns you see, ground wells that are set in the city. There is no nearby river. The closest river, the one you know about, is about a 30 minute walk south.
Taliesin: It's a bit of a ways.
Matt: Yeah. You use that to coax them out a bit. It's easy enough for you to go around and put cloth over the windows. It's a dark interior, so it's not like an immediate--
Taliesin: Just so light doesn't leak out.
Liam: But, just in case, I think I'll hang back. I'm not going down to the pre-made tunnel, I'll just keep an eye above ground.
Travis: I am, too, I'm staying up in the tavern.
Laura: I'm going with you to the tunnel.
Taliesin: I'm going to tinker a little thing. Can I borrow an arrow?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Thank you. I'm going to tinker a very little, easy thing.
Travis: You want the top floor, I'll take the bottom floor.
Taliesin: I want to be able to fire and ignite one of the parchments on an arrow. So that I can--
Laura: Do you want me to shoot the arrow for you?
Taliesin: -- set a burn mark at a distance.
Matt: Interesting. Okay.
Taliesin: It would be a spark, as opposed to actual flame. It would just be concussive force.
Matt: Right, it's more getting the parchment there without it tearing or the arrow leaving it behind, because it is a thin, flimsy piece.
Taliesin: It would be coiled.
Matt: Coiled and then--
Taliesin: Hit, release.
Matt: That's going to be a really intricate-- go ahead and roll a tinkerer's check.
Liam: 20, 20, 20.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: Okay. You toy with it for a while; you think you have something that may work. You're uncertain as to on its release if it'll function or not. So, write down 'Parchment Delivery Arrow' with a question mark next to it.
Sam: Maybe there's a simpler way.
Taliesin: There might be, but just in case there's not, I want to make sure this works.
Marisha: You could always slap it up there and shoot it with a flame arrow.
Taliesin: I've got three of them, so I've got options. But I just want to make sure--
Marisha: How's my burrowing going? 200 feet.
Matt: All right. You continue to burrow through the ground, moving the earth aside and the tunnel opens before you like the clay slowly melting away. And it is wet earth. Eventually, you start getting to a few thick roots under the tree.
Laura: Can you talk to it from here, Keyleth?
Matt: The roots that you see, they continue past the tunnel. They go very, very deep into the ground.
Marisha: Awesome. I'm going to clear out a little more area, and I'm going to touch the roots and cast Speak with Plants.
Travis: Holy shit.
Sam: Speak with Plants?
Liam: Haroom haroom.
Taliesin: The only superpower more pathetic than Aquaman's.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Shut up.
Taliesin: Sorry, had to.
Laura: (kid's voice) Gee wiz, I wish I had some water.
Marisha: (kid's voice) The sun is so bright today!
Laura: Too bad we don't have Tiberius with us with his endless water fucking pitcher.
Liam: It's Ent voice. Haroom haroom!
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Laura: Sure, sure, sure.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Sam: I can go to one of the wells and get some water.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: Hey, he's cool sometimes.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: Sometimes.
Taliesin: It's what fish say. Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: That's what fish say.
Liam: That's all they say.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Matt: You finish the spell and you reach out and you touch the root and you instill the force of your nature-based divine energies into the root. Silence.
Sam: Oh no.
Matt: This tree is dead.
Travis: No!
Sam: Dead?!
Laura: You can bring it back!
Marisha: I can bring it back. Should I?
Sam: You can do that?
Marisha: I'm a druid, that's my-- yeah man!
Sam: You can bring dead things back?
Marisha: Yeah, it's called Plant Growth!
Sam: What?!
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: This I gotta see.
Marisha: Should I? Okay. But it's dead. What time is it now?
Matt: Right now, with all the traveling you guys have done, I'd say it's past noon, probably. Including the time you've spent inside the tavern, searching it through and preparing it as your base of operations.
Laura: Try it.
Marisha: Should I start it up now?
Sam: Yeah!
Liam: Go for it!
Laura: Go for it!
Travis: Go for it!
Marisha: I'm going to start my Plant Growth. I'm going to drop. Can I try to clear out an area where I can-- I should be fine.
Laura: Reach up in its junk.
Taliesin: Put your hand in it.
Marisha: I'm going to strap on my gloves.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Turn and cough.
Marisha: Hope you guys are ready for this.
Sam: Is it going to be loud?
Marisha: No, it's just going to take a long time.
Travis: Vax and I are guarding the tavern, so if anything comes--
Sam: I'm going to get provisions ready to spoon-feed her.
Marisha: Actually, before I do that, can we all have one last meal together and eat a Heroes' Feast?
Laura: I like it.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Certainly.
Taliesin: Let's eat.
Matt: So, you've made the purchase within Emon for how many of the requisite chalice for the Heroes' Feast?
Marisha: How many did I buy?
Taliesin: You have at least one.
Marisha: It gets used. It's expensive.
Laura: It's $1000.
Marisha: It's $1000.
Matt: It's a gem-encrusted bowl worth 1000 gold pieces, which the spell consumes. So, we'll say how many of those did you purchase in Emon, knowing you'd be casting this in the future?
Marisha: How much gold do we have?
Sam: Not a lot.
Laura: Is that for each person, or 1000 gold for the whole party?
Matt: For the whole feast.
Laura: How about you did three bowls?
Marisha: Three bowls.
Matt: Mark 3000 gold from the group's queue. And you have three gem bowls, using one now. So you have two bowls left at your disposal. And you prepare a Heroes' Feast for the group to consume.
Marisha: I take some of that leftover wine, use that to make it fancy wine.
Sam: This is great. This is awesome.
Laura: Are we eating in the cellar?
Marisha: So you get, I believe, 2d12 additional hit points on top of your maximum hit points.
Sam: Wait, forever?
Laura: No, no, for how long?
Marisha: For 24 hours.
Matt: It lasts for 24 hours.
Sam: 2d12?
Matt: So, until about--
Sam: What the fuck is a d12? I've never rolled a d12.
Matt: -- 2PM tomorrow. So mark that down, somebody note that it lasts until 2PM.
Laura: An additional 2d12?
Matt: 2d10?
Marisha: Oh, I'm sorry, 2d10.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Laura: Overall hit points.
Marisha: And, you should have- Ooh! I got two tens!
Laura: Ah, badass!
Matt: Trinket can also benefit from this, by the way, too.
Laura: Yay! Nice.
Taliesin: You also get other bonuses.
Matt: Yep. You are immune to poison, and diseases, and being frightened, and all wisdom saving throws are made with advantage. Feast is awesome.
Sam: Why don't we do that right before we go see the Briarwoods, also?
Laura: We have another bowl.
Marisha: We have two more bowls.
Sam: Because that is fucking awesome.
Marisha: Doing that right now, just in case the Briarwoods decide to come say hello.
Taliesin: Or any of the other terrible people who live in this town because there are terrible people in this town.
Travis: That was a delicious feast.
Sam: The tikka masala was tangy!
Marisha: So, we're immune to poison--
Matt: And disease and frightened. So, feast consumed, you now take your next eight hours--
Marisha: I'm going to go meditate. I'll be back in eight hours.
Matt: --to work on this. As she sits down to begin the ritual of cleansing, or bringing plant vitality enhancement to the vicinity of Whitestone. We're going to go ahead and end today's session there. Pick up at the end of that spell at the beginning of next week.
Taliesin: I love you all so much. I love you so much.
Matt: This is getting real interesting.
Marisha: What time is it?
Liam: It was like eight in the morning-ish when we found that building, yeah?
Matt: What?
Liam: Was it around eight in the morning when we got to that house?
Matt: You guys got to town around nine, 9 30.
Laura: So the spell probably started around 11.
Matt: Walking around, seeing things, finding the tavern. And then getting in there and cleaning it out. I'd say you're getting close to one, two o'clock now. You've also taken it slow, you're also being stealthy and not trying to be conspicuous as you move through.
Laura: Right, so we'll start the fight in the morning the next day.
Marisha: Well, I'm meditating now. I dropped into my meditation--
Sam: We're not starting any fight, we're forming an insurgency.
Marisha: Hopefully nothing happens and y'all don't have to defend me while I'm doing this shit. That's what I'm hoping for.
Taliesin: I have stuff to give you, too, 'cause, yeah.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: Man.
Taliesin: Thank you for letting me roll with that, by the way.
Matt: Of course. It fit right into my--
Taliesin: I had a funny feeling it would.
Matt: All right, guys. So we'll pick up from there next week, right in the center of the--
Marisha: A tree full of dead us? That's fucked up.
Laura: That's mean, Matt.
Taliesin: That was some mean shit, man.
Liam: That's what you call a giving tree.
Matt: It's a friendly place, Whitestone.
Sam: And the tree was happy. But not really.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, so that was it.
Matt: All righty. Well, I guess we have the announcements.
Zac: We have some donations.
Matt: Yeah, you guys are awesome.
Zac: And I wanna thank the chatroom for being on their best behavior tonight.
Laura: Thanks, guys.
Zac: Avoided the banhammer.
Sam: The what?
Zac: They avoided the banhammer.
Taliesin: There was no banhammer?
Zac: Not by me, anyway. There's always a couple trolls that find their way.
Matt: Yeah, it's the internet. Trolls happen. But yeah, guys, thank you for being respectful.
Taliesin: Guys, thank you, oh my god, I'm so happy to be sharing this.
Zac: You know what makes you guys so awesome? Donations for charity! (all cheer)
Matt: All right, so we have Maxine Palaquin donated leet, $13.37. That's fantastic, thank you so much, Maxine. Matthew Robinson donated $25, Matthew, brilliance. Elizabeth Lee's donated $100. Thank you so much, Elizabeth, that's incredible. Arthur Still donated $50, thank you so much, Arthur, well-played. Two anonymous people donated $15 and $25. Thank you guys. You're awesome, whoever you are. Sam Falco donated $25. Sam, you're rad. Kristen Wilhelmy donated $20. Way to go, Kristen. John Reed donated $15 and Sarah Hannah donated $100, John, you're awesome, Sarah, you're $100-awesome. Killer Penguin, another $20. Killer Penguin, always a good one. LoveMyMom donated $22.
Taliesin: Yeah we do.
Matt: Thelosthikers donated $25. Hikers, hope you find your way. Brian Wheedler, I think it is, donated $3, thank you so much, Brian. And any amount helps, by the way. Seriously guys that's great. Thank you so much. Patrick Toro donated $1,337. To Extra Life charity. That is fully a leet donation. Wow, Patrick.
Sam: Wait, maybe the decimal place was wrong?
Zac: Well, that would... sorry?
Taliesin: Thank you, we're very sorry!
Matt: I mean, that's incredible, Patrick, seriously. Malachi Olden donated $25. Thank you, Malachi. Emma Angfwist donated $50, sorry for ruining that, but thank you so much, Emma, that's wonderful. Ryan Kerr donated $25, Ryan, you're great. Emma came back with another $25 donation again.
Marisha: Double-dipping.
Matt: Thank you so much, Emma, I really, really appreciate that. And love to you this week. Anonymous donated $35.10, anonymous, whoever you are, love you too.
Zac: We'll go back to the beginning.
Matt: Got you, no worries. Richard Redmond donated $35. Richard, well-played, well done. Jordan Goland donated $15, thank you, Jordan, you're awesome. Another anonymous person donated $25. Whoever you are, hearts. Tim Pearson returns with a $25 donation. Thank you so much, Tim, you're rad. Steven Sudeban Davis donated $100. Steven, thank you, that's incredible. Onna Nelson also donated $100. Onna, you're awesome, that's incredible. Anna Law donated $25, thank you Anna. Well-played. Louis Lovelan donated $560. Louis. This community has so much people, so awesome.
Zac: An interesting note, they said they wanted to donate $20 per episode, 'cause they just caught up.
All: Oh!
Laura: That's a lot! Lot of episodes.
Matt: Chris Black donated $35. Chris, you're fantastic, thank you so much, buddy. Kash Brown donated $50. Kash, yeah. Steven Duggan donated $5. Is that the Dugganator?
Marisha: Yeah, that's Dugganator. Steven Duggan? Yeah.
Matt: Well, $5, thank you so much. James Ramsey donated $25. James, you do encourage goodwill. Tim Nicholson donated $25. Thank you so much, Tim Nicholson. Another anonymous, #pumpkinspicethisbitch donated $25. Thank you so much. Sidney, oh, Rokushepard, Sidney, who we met in New York actually, donated $15. Thank you so much, Sidney. Great to meet you. Arthur Gibbs donated $50. Arthur, you're fantastic, buddy. Joseph Allen donated $25 to Extra Life. Joseph, thank you so much. Another anonymous donated-- Oh, it's Megan! Donated $5. Thank you so much, Megan, really appreciate that. Joseph Ulbricky donated $25. Thank you again, Joseph, that's amazing. Descentfromgrace returns with a $50 donation, Descentfromgrace, yay! Thank you so much. Vin Call donated $10, Vin, thank you so much. GhostKaidan donated $15. Thank you so much, GhostKaidan. And one more that just came in, I believe. Tyson Poirier. I'm sorry if I ruined that. But Tyson, you're awesome, you donated $40, really appreciate that. Donated based on critical fails and natural 20s.
Laura: That's kind of awesome.
Matt: That's kind of a cool way to do it. Guys, you're all continuously fantastic in your support for this community, for the charity causes that we put this out for, ever-humbled.
Zac: Another big charity cause tomorrow. Where you're on drums. So tomorrow the Battle of the Bands from 5-7PM. Your team, in case you don't know, is you, Felicia Day, Tom Lenk, and Josephine, one of our mods. See, Felicia was doing this thing where she was like, what team could I put together that will immediately win fan-favorite without doing any actual work? So we saw your plan, Felicia, and we came back with our team of Lucas, Mr. Spoopy in the back, running the tech board.
Matt: Heck yeah.
Zac: Augie, who is a professional drummer, Hector, and Amy Dallen, and we know, between Amy and Josephine, our chat room is definitely going to be split on who's the chat room favorite, so.
Matt: So is the professional drummer on bass?
Zac: No. Definitely not. He is not on bass.
Taliesin: You dropped Whitestone.
Zac: He is not on bass. Lucas is able to play all songs on Expert on guitar, I think you guys are gonna have your work cut out for you. For sure.
Matt: It's all good.
Zac: For sure. They also work here almost all week, and practice after all the shows. (laughs)
Matt: That's cool.
Taliesin: Is that what you do?
Matt: I prefer to light my opponents on fire while they're drumming, 'cause I find that's a good challenge for their skillset.
Zac: Oh, that would make sure a good show. I'm very okay with it. Like, let's go for it. It's for charity, let's just do it.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: I wanna say, we had a studio audience for this show as well, which we're very thankful for.
Matt: Yes we did, actually.
Marisha: Fellow critter! Alec!
Zac: Come on up real fast. Yeah.
Marisha: Go next to the DM!
Matt: Come here real fast!
Travis: Duck down low!
Matt: Come on down here and say hello.
Alec: What's up, Twitch chat? How you doing? These guys are exactly as awesome as you imagine them to be. I have to say, completely blown away. Absolutely blown away.
Laura: Oh, you.
Taliesin: Thanks for just stopping by. That was cool.
Marisha: Yeah. Yeah.
Matt: Seriously, man. Thank you so much.
Alec: Thanks for having me.
Matt: Of course, buddy. And guys, thank you all so much for tuning in. Hope you enjoyed it. We'll be back next week, Thursday. I guess we'll end here with a is it Thursday yet? Have a good night, guys.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, and good evening everyone, to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. Tonight's going to be an interesting evening based on how we left off last week, so we'll get to that here in a moment. First and foremost, let's get through our announcements. At the top, we are excited. This episode and the episodes of this month are brought to you by our new sponsor for this month, Loot Crate. (cheering)
Matt: Me and Marisha have been Loot Crate--
Marisha: --purveyors for like three years.
Matt: But they've been awesome enough and interested in helping us sponsor this next month of content, so that being the case, if we want to go ahead and open some of these boxes real fast, and see, so you're aware of the kind of stuff that Loot Crate does. While they're opening this, Loot Crate is a monthly subscription box service that's 20 bucks a month and you get six to eight unique items that are based on a specific theme every month.
Laura: Leeloo Dallas Multipass!
Taliesin: This is the one that comes with the Harry Potter socks.
Laura: Sorry, Matt, you were talking.
Matt: That's okay. You guys show off what you got.
Liam: I have a little cute facehugger for the face.
Marisha: Yes, a drinking horn!
Sam: I got a shofar! I'm still saying we should rename the show Crate-ical Role for this month. I'm just saying.
Matt: No, I'm good. I'm good on that, thank you.
Taliesin: This fabulous Labyrinth t-shirt, which Travis is sporting.
Travis: I think if David Bowie can't keep you alive, I don't know what can. Original War of the Worlds and The Day the Earth Stood Still prints?
Matt: So, the cool thing about this is, they send you a new crate every month that has a certain theme and the content in that is based around that theme. If you go to www.lootcrate.com/criticalrole, you can enter the code 'criticalrole', one word, to save $3 on your new subscription, so if you're thinking about it and you want to try it out for a little while, go ahead and use our code and get yourself a nice little discount, which is rad.
Liam: The other neat thing about Loot Crate boxes is you can turn them inside out and they become something. This one's an arcade machine.
Marisha: This one's got a maze on the inside.
Taliesin: I keep all my stuff in these boxes.
Marisha: Yeah, they're good storage boxes. Or regifting boxes.
Matt: That the invasion box?
Travis: Yeah. There's an invasion box, a quest box, and a power box, but we don't have that yet.
Matt: Not yet, power box, I think, is this month.
Ashley: There's so much X-Files stuff in here. This is awesome.
Matt: (laughs) That was a good month.
Laura: I think May is World of Warcraft, DBZ. It's got all these amazing things and I was like, I'm a part of all of these things and I want it!
Matt: I like how it's essentially a really tiny pre-stream Critmas.
Sam: Guys, you could watch us open stuff all night.
Matt: I've already lost control of the episode.
Travis: Go to Loot Crate, click the link. Show some love.
Matt: So, yeah, lootcrate.com/criticalrole. You can put in 'criticalrole' as your code there and you'll get 3% off your subscription.
Marisha: $3 off.
Matt: Or yeah, sorry, $3, not 3%. Much better than 3%. I'm so stupid. $3. It's awesome. Thank you, Loot Crate! Next announcement we have, for those who missed it previously, it is now available: the latest issue of Rat Queens, in which Vox Machina make a cameo appearance during a certain bar-crawl portion of the issue. And some wayward bard ends up trying to buy a drink for one of the members.
Travis: He's got glorious hair, though.
Matt: He has glorious hair, which, mine is shorter now, but it'll grow. Don't worry, those of you who freaked out. I've already gotten people who're like, "You cut it!" and I'm like, "It's hair! I live in the Valley where it's hot."
Laura: Well, it's not really hot right now.
Matt: Yeah, not today. Today, the weather's been nice. So, yeah, next up on the list, Taliesin. Supposedly, for those who haven't seen it, the next run on Signal Boost, the show that Marisha writes and produces for, has a new person hosting the next series of episodes.
Taliesin: Who's hosting the new series-- Oh, fuck. I'd better start working on that right now. Oh. It's going to be great. No, I'm having a lot of fun. We're putting it together, and--
Marisha: It's going to be weird. We're going even weirder. So for everyone who already hates how weird it is, buckle up.
Matt: All right, so, look for that. All right. Also, there is a new series of Geek and Sundry website content coming up called Ask Vox Machina, in which Vox Machina members have been written to by various people living in the world of Tal'Dorei, asking how to solve their problems. Our wondrous players here are answering them in character. I believe the first one is going to be Sam, right?
Sam: Yeah, Scanlan got some great letters from the fans, and he replied with some award-winning advice. So, check that out tomorrow on geekandsundry.com.
Taliesin: Participation awards all around.
Matt: (laughs) Did you say anticipation awards?
Taliesin: Participation.
Matt: Oh, I like anticipation awards, too. There's a video game that some people may have heard of called Uncharted 4 that's coming out. Reviews have been coming out and everyone's giving it the best game of forever.
Laura: It's amazing!
Matt: So, and I believe one of our own Vox Machina plays a rather awesome role in that, Laura? (cheering)
Matt: Nadine Ross in the story.
Laura: Yeah, she's a villain, so you get to face off with her. It's really fun.
Matt: That is exciting.
Liam: You are a good actor.
Matt: And in the multiplayer you might hear me try and kill you a couple times.
Liam: Yeah, kill him a lot for what he's about to do!
Sam: You also might hear me try to heal you a couple times.
Matt: Okay, so between us, we got you.
Laura: That's right, I remember when we were going in for multiplayer, it was like, we've got several members of Vox Machina as the multiplayer characters, which is pretty ridiculous.
Matt: Should be fun. All right. Also, we put the new full title intro on Facebook yesterday, so you guys can get it in hi-def glory at your request. And we've already hit a million views on it in a day.
Travis: (laughs) Which is weird.
Liam: Dungeons and Dragons!
Matt: It's a good time when you can dress up as your D&D characters for a weekend and people on Facebook are like, cool. Like, that's the weirdest thing ever.
Taliesin: A million people go, huh.
Matt: Huh. That's a thing. (laughs)
Laura: Although I did get made fun of already.
Matt: Did you?
Laura: Some fan pointed out that I looked stupid.
Matt: Did they really?
Sam: I wouldn't call that person a fan, necessarily.
Matt: They say that (funny voice) I love the intro but Laura Bailey looks stupid.
Laura: (fake cries)
Sam: I'm sorry I wrote that.
Laura: It was Sam.
Matt: All right, last couple things here. The title song actually for that intro, written by our wondrous friend of the show, Jason Charles Miller, who you saw play as Garthok, the half-orc rogue a number of episodes back, who wrote our original theme and the new one, has it up on iTunes. So if you want to have the most badass, nerdy ringtone and/or music to play on repeat until you start bleeding out of your nose, that is now available on iTunes, so you can search for the Critical Role intro music. It's awesome. All right, Liam, you want to take it away?
Liam: We've come a long way to get here tonight. It's true we may die, and when our bones are turned to dust, carry them away in Wyrmwood gaming boxes, the finest wooden boxes for carrying the remains of the dead ever. They're great! Oh and you can put dice in 'em too, which is probably their intended purpose. And if you like them, they have many different kinds of woods, you go to wyrmwoodgaming.com. And if you want to pay for shipping, you can, but if you don't want to pay for shipping, use the code 'critrole'.
All: Critrole!
Liam: Feels so good. And you'll get free shipping. And then also, lastly, this is the last couple of hours for their kickstarter for the sentinel box. You can get our logo onto any box, like this, or you can get the real swag and get the master box. It looks like this on any wood. And you put your dice in it, cards in it.
Ashley: My favorite part of Wyrmwood Gaming is the magnets. Magnets, bitch! (laughter)
Matt: It's so satisfying.
Liam: So, that kickstarter, a couple more hours, then finito if you want to get in on that. Okay.
Matt: Cool. And last but not least on my list, it says 'death to all puppies'. I don't know who wrote that.
Travis: Who would write that?
Laura: It was you, Matt. It was you!
Matt: I'm going to assume it's Sam. It's usually Sam. All right. Well, then, let's go ahead and bring this down now to get in the mood for tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. So! Leaving off from last week's episode, the party of intrepid adventurers, Vox Machina, trying to save the whole of Tal'Dorei from the Chroma Conclave, a collection of chromatic dragons that have destroyed many of the main cities here, have gone about searching for items called the Vestiges of Divergence, magical artifacts from a war of ancient times that apparently hold some great power that could aid in defeating these dragons. One of which, apparently, is being held by Kevdak, the leader of the herd of roaming tribal barbaric individuals that Grog once belonged to, and had beaten the crap out of and left Grog for dead long ago. While the dragons had destroyed part of Westruun and left it behind, this tribe utilized that time to take over the town, enslaving or keeping most of the people under their thumb, and making an accord with the one black dragon, Umbrasyl, that is currently in a tenuous relationship right now with these herd members, Herd of the Storm, as they're known. You, having sent a few of them to their death via a trap on the outside, found your way into the city, saved some of the individuals that lived there, as well as Kaylie and Dr. Dranzel, and Grog went ahead and issued a challenge to the Herd to meet with Kevdak himself. After some fairly decent intimidation checks, it was agreed, and while most of the party stealthed behind, you made your way to the very center of the town square, where Kevdak leapt off the top of the ex-Margrave's homestead and the two of you began to do battle in a pit of spikes that was gathered in the center of the town square, surrounded by a number of the clan watching on. During this fight, it went back and forth a bit before Grog felt that this was a losing battle should it continue in this way and decided to, at least it seemed to me, call out to his friends for aid with the classic Shakespearean battle cry of, "Vox Machina, fuck shit up!"
Liam: That's from Coriolanus.
Matt: Oh, sorry, Coriolanus, thank you. And that is where we're picking up. So--
Sam: Before we go, I have to inspire everyone with this. (laughter)
Matt: Holy shit. What the-- what?
Taliesin: What are you? What the fuck are you? Oh my God!
Liam: I want a d10!
Sam: And look, Ashley's, like, somewhere, I can't even see.
Matt: Please tell me that was a gift from somebody.
Sam: No, I made this myself, because I wanted you all to know how passionate I was about tonight.
Liam: Sam? Could you kiss your right gun?
Ashley: Kiss it! Kiss it!
Sam: Mm. Tastes like strawberries. And sweat.
Matt: Inspiration granted and immediately taken away.
Travis: Do your pants also have photoshopped lightning coming out of the crotch?
Sam: No, my pants are just jeans.
Ashley: Wait, how far down does it go?
Sam: All the way, baby.
Matt: That's the first step of the process. The pants come soon.
Laura: Did you just do that at home with a--?
Sam: Yeah, I just penciled it in.
Matt: I can't even. That's a thing. All righty, so, with that, we are going into the realm of battle. Let's go ahead and kick on the proper music for this. So, with Vox Machina currently on the rooftops here and hiding within the bottom of this building, we have the four archers that have appeared on the rooftop of the Margrave's house. We have most of the individuals that are surrounding this, along with the few innocents, which just for the sake of appearance, here, I will go ahead and attempt to mark with a few markers so you know who you're looking for, innocents-wise.
Liam: We're the innocents, Matt. We're the innocents.
Matt: No, you're not. Not anymore. All right, so, the red markers are going to act as markers for the innocent, just so you're aware.
Travis: Percy. Percy! Taliesin! You're on that roof, right?
Matt: Percy's over there. All righty, so, that all being the case, guys, as Grog shouted, at this moment the individuals in the center of the square start looking around, confused, not knowing where to come from. At this moment, a few of them manage to catch up a glance at the individuals that are on the rooftops. I need everyone to roll initiative, along with you, Grog, because combat has begun again at this point at the top.
Marisha: Wait, all of us?
Matt: All of you guys. This has started.
Taliesin: I mean, that's not amazing. That's better. 14.
Marisha: You're still ahead of me. You rolled a nat 20?
Ashley: Why's he laughing?
Travis: Because he's fucking evil.
Matt: 'Because he's fucking evil'? Is that what you said?
Travis: Who said that? I will beat him with my fists.
Matt: All right, so, for the sake of this one, we have 25 to 20.
Laura: 27.
Liam: 24.
Sam: 21.
Matt: 21, okay, so we have-- let's see.
Liam: All the people who wanted to go first are going first.
Matt: All right, 20 to 15?
Travis: 18.
Matt: All righty. 15 to ten.
Taliesin: 14.
Marisha: 13.
Ashley: 12.
Matt: Pike, getting into the double-digits!
Ashley: Oh, you know. Moving on up.
Taliesin: I'd rather have my low roll here than for anything else.
Laura: Oh god, oh god, oh god, oh god.
Travis: It's like a roller coaster. We're just going tick-tick-tick-tick-shooom.
Matt: A lot here I'm keeping track of, guys. All right, so, the surprise round affects all the archers. It affects everyone except for these four individuals, or these two individuals with the clubs, and these two women here with big swords, and Kevdak. So, top of the round, Vex.
Laura: Does the second story of the house that I'm in have windows? Can I see?
Matt: The second story does.
Laura: Can I run up the stairs, then, so I can get a better look at the playing field?
Matt: Actually, this one was supposed to go this way for the entrance point there. All right. So you are currently now looking out the side of the window.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to-- I'm already hiding, right?
Matt: Right, no one's seen you at this point.
Laura: Okay, then I'm going to Hunter's Mark Kevdak. And I'm going to hold my turn--
Matt: Putting a green on him for the Hunter's Mark.
Laura: I'm going to hold my turn until it seems like he's better incapacitated or until something happens. I'm going to hold my turn.
Matt: Hold your action until--?
Laura: I think until Scanlan goes.
Matt: Okay, so that finishes your turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Am I at a window as well, downstairs?
Matt: You are by a door.
Liam: Am I half on a street? In a door?
Matt: You're inside the house right now. The door is technically partially ajar because you guys did slip in.
Liam: All right, I'm going to click my boots, crack the door a few inches, and I'm going to hold my turn until one of our magic-users pulls a trick or Kevdak takes a swing at Grog.
Matt: Okay. That'll end your current actions. The archers are surprised. They do not go. It is Kevdak's turn. Kevdak sees you shouting out. He rolled a natural 20 on his initiative.
Laura: No, he didn't! That's why you shook your fucking head.
Matt: Yeah. I was like, man, all right. Let's start this right.
Marisha: Fucking Wheaton!
Matt: They had Wheaton come in and touch all my stuff. All right, so he's going to go ahead and, seeing you shout like this, he looks about for a second. He's going to continue his rage. He glances about, looks over and he sees nothing immediately on the rooftops, but looks down at this individual now shouting out for help before him, prostrate, and he gives you a glance and says, "Well this seems real familiar, doesn't it, Strongjaw?" At which point he's going to go ahead and take two of his reckless attacks against you. That's going to be a 28 to hit.
Travis: I'll have to look, but I think it hits.
Matt: Yeah. Second attack is a 30 to hit.
Travis: These aren't Great Weapon Master, right?
Matt: No, these are not Great Weapon Master.
Laura: What is his attack fucking bonus?
Taliesin: At least ten.
Matt: You take 30 points of slashing damage, reduced to 15. And two points of necrotic damage, because it's not reduced. And second one's going to be 22 points of slashing damage, reduced to 11, and then five points of necrotic on top of that.
Sam: However, for the second slash, I'm going to use Cutting Words to reduce the damage.
Travis: Before he does that, you said 17 on the first one, 11 on the second attack, and how much necrotic on the second one?
Laura: Seven overall. Plus two necrotic on the first hit. Five necrotic on the second.
Matt: You might have to get a little bit closer to make sure that he can hear you.
Laura: Plus that would be giving away your hiding.
Matt: What're you going to do, Sam?
Sam: I step forward closer to him and I use Cutting Words.
Matt: Okay, you step to the very edge of the rooftop here.
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: We'll say for the sake of this, right there.
Sam: And I shout, oi, Kevdak! I have a message from the people of Westruun! And I moon him. (laughter)
Sam: And I say, kiss our metaphorical hairy arses!
Matt: Just like that on your shirt. As he brings around his axe for a second swing, he hears that and glances over his shoulder and sees this shiny gnome butt up on the top. Continuing the swing, though, to attack. Go ahead and reduce the damage using your Cutting Words.
Sam: Ten, right?
Matt: Uh-huh.
Sam: Pff. One.
Matt: So you take ten points of slashing damage from that strike. Oh, you're wielding Mythcarver, so his next saving throw is at disadvantage, right?
Sam: Yes, it is.
Matt: Because you're not currently wielding your weapon, Kevdak's going to go ahead and take a step back and glance over at you, as he's going to move his fingers up and point towards the roof. And you see a bunch of the other entities and archers, whoosh, shift their attention over in your direction, Sam. All right, that finishes Kevdak's turn. Scanlan, you're up next. Actually, you do get an attack of opportunity on him with your fist. Because you're not holding your warhammer right now.
Travis: I rolled a five, plus what? My strength?
Matt: I mean, it's your strength modifier plus your proficiency modifier.
Travis: 13?
Matt: 13, no. You punch his back and it just hits off his muscle. All right. Sam, you're up.
Sam: Okay. From my crouched, butt-out position, whilst holding my Hand Cone of Clarity.
Matt: Where are you holding it?
Sam: It's shoved up there.
Liam: Between the legs, upside-down.
Sam: Before I make this attack, when I scanned around, did I see any of his allies without any weapons or carrying a staff or something like that?
Matt: No, they're all the type of people that would be at all times wielding something at their side. There are two individuals that you do notice, there is this one here, and there is Greenbeard right there, and they both appear to have some sort of a quarterstaff-type implement, but everything else is either bladed or giant clubs or some sort of big melee weapon.
Sam: But they're surprised anyway.
Matt: They are, yes.
Sam: Okay. Okay. Well, then, I will cast Hold Person at level three on Kevdak.
Matt: On Kevdak.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Oh boy.
Sam: At level three, so I get to target one other individual.
Matt: You would, yeah.
Sam: And I would target the beardy guy with the staff.
Matt: All right, Hold Person. For a minute, wisdom saving throw, for the duration. Okay.
Sam: Wisdom saving throw with disadvantage.
Matt: With disadvantage, yes, that is true. Kevdak. All right.
Sam: Because of Cutting Words.
Matt: He rolled a 19 and an eight. Taking the eight, that brings it to a ten, so that's a failure on him. (cheering)
Laura: For Hold Person, does it un-paralyze him if we hit him?
Sam: No. He's just paralyzed. You can have at him. And can I still move and do other things?
Matt: You can in a moment. We have to figure out if the other guy makes his save. He rolls a natural one.
Laura: Yay!
Matt: Aw, man, the rest of these people are going to be real pissed.
Liam: This is where my held turn comes in.
Laura: Me too, but I was in front of you.
Liam: Yeah, go for it.
Travis: If you hit him, does he become not paralyzed?
Liam: No, he's stuck.
Matt: Yes. At the end of each of his turns, the target can make another wisdom saving throw. And paralyzed, for those who are aware what paralyzation does, a paralyzed creature is incapacitated and cannot speak, automatically fails strength and dexterity saving throws, attacks rolls have advantage, and any attack that hits the target is a critical hit if it's within five feet of the creature.
Laura: Oh, five feet. Damn it. Oh, but that's good for Grog. Okay.
Sam: Okay, wait. I still get my move, right?
Matt: You do.
Sam: Okay. Is there any cover? Are there chimneys? Is there anything I can duck behind?
Matt: You can duck behind the other side of this roof if you'd like.
Sam: And still maintain sight? Oh, wait, no, I'd be more than 60 feet away.
Matt: I mean, it's more the casting time. You can still move away once you've cast the spell and hold it there.
Sam: Okay. Then I'll duck back behind some cover. And as my bonus, I still get a bonus, I will inspire Grog and I'll say, Grog! Now it's your turn to fuck shit up. (laughter)
Sam: All right.
Matt: And that finishes your turn, Scanlan?
Sam: Yeah, that's it.
Matt: Grog, you're up.
Travis: He's paralyzed.
Matt: You watch as he steps away from you, points up, and all the archers turn towards that, everyone else looks over at the rooftop and you hear a cacophony of voices around growling, before Kevdak takes another step and (grunts). And you see the gleaming ass of Scanlan in the distance, the high noonday sun bouncing off of his pale, sun-dappled, gnomish skin. These two round globes of victory staring down from the rooftop.
Sam: Round globes of victory! I love it.
Travis: Can I walk around to the front of Kevdak?
Matt: Do you want to pick up your weapon first, or?
Travis: No.
Matt: Nope? Okay.
Liam: Do the twins go first or does Grog go first?
Matt: Oh right, because you held your actions, so, up to you.
Sam: Okay, do your thing, do your thing.
Liam: I'm going to go.
Laura: I'm going to go.
Matt: Yep. All right. So. We have now Vex, taking your shots.
Laura: Yes. Yes. I'm going to shoot from my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel. So that's three attacks on the first attack.
Matt: Yes, and they all have advantage because he's paralyzed. This is bad for Kevdak, but we'll see how it works.
Laura: Okay, so.
Matt: Still raging, so everything's half-damage.
Laura: So 19 plus 12 probably hits on the first attack.
Matt: Yeah, that does.
Laura: Okay. 19 plus 12 hits on the second.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: And 17 plus 12 hits on the third?
Matt: Yeah, they all hit.
Laura: Okay. I'm adjusting my glasses, I'm so nervous. Okay. 28 on the first hit.
Matt: 28, reduced to 14, okay.
Laura: 21 on the second hit.
Ashley: Get him, baby.
Laura: 16 on the third hit.
Matt: Okay, that reduces to eight. All the arrows strike true, thump-thump-thump, but still each one is only piercing the flesh so far, he's generally so dense in his musculature, each impact is not having the same satisfying (impact) sound you're used to. But that ends your held action and it is now your turn.
Laura: Oh, but I get another attack, because that's just one attack.
Matt: Oh right, that was the sky sentinel, go for it. Take a second attack.
Laura: My second attack, I'm going to take at Greenbeard, and I'm going to shoot through the flaming bowstring.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 17 plus 12 probably hits? 17 plus 12?
Matt: Yeah, that's going to hit.
Laura: Okay. Gah! 14 on that one.
Matt: 14, okay. 14 damage to him. Greenbeard is currently stuck there in place, the arrow sinks into his robe and you don't even see the impact, it absorbs into the cloth and he goes, ah, and you hear the escaping air from the impact but he can't actually move.
Taliesin: Hunter's Mark.
Laura: I hunter's marked, he's hunter's marked already.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: At this point, you'd better.
Taliesin: We're not panicking, no, not at all.
Laura: Not at all. Hunter's Mark! I did it, I swear!
Matt: All right. You're up.
Liam: Just to verify, because Kevdak is still raging, am I denied the surprise attack from inside here?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Okay. So I'm going to use sharpshooter and drop five to hit harder, I'm going to throw a dagger at advantage, yeah?
Matt: So you're moving up into the doorway.
Liam: Yeah, to the doorway, right, so the first--
Matt: Who are you attacking?
Liam: Kevdak. 60 feet.
Matt: 60 feet, you'd, okay, yeah, you can get right into there and probably still hit him from there. Because you have sharpshooter, you don't have the second increment range, go for it.
Liam: Okay, so it's 25.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Four, oh, hold on, I'll save that four. 20. Okay.
Travis: My hands are fucking shaking.
Liam: (counting) 31, 37.
Matt: 37. And half of that is going to put it at 18.
Liam: Okay. I'd like to use my bonus action to throw the next--
Matt: You had the held-- a held action is just your action.
Laura: Oh, yeah, you did the clicking the boots of haste already.
Liam: I thought that was a gimme-- oh, that's the bonus action?
Matt: Well, the idea being that when you hold your action, you have an action that you hold until it triggers. The bonus action's a whole different thing that you have to take on your turn.
Liam: So taking a hold is an action? I don't understand.
Sam: Holding your turn loses your bonus action.
Matt: Yes, essentially you have your action and your bonus action. Holding your action means you hold that one bit of it but your turn still continues past it.
Liam: Okay. Which doorway, where am I on the map, I can't see myself? Right there? Could I run to the corner of the building that the archers are on and scrabble up the side of it?
Matt: Over here?
Liam: And get to that archer?
Matt: You can certain try it. (laughter)
Matt: You rush past one of the peasants, fear in their face, they're confused and looking around and you see there's mud and a little trickle of blood that's dried down their face. As you (darting noise) by, they go, (gasps) You don't pay too much mind to them.
Liam: Acrobatics check?
Matt: Make an acrobatics check.
Liam: 30.
Matt: 30. You manage to make it up to the top.
Liam: Do I have an action left?
Matt: No, you used your action.
Liam: Action, action, bonus action with the hasted boots?
Matt: Technically, you wouldn't be able to move at this point even, but I'm letting you do that. Usually your move, it's a little weird.
Liam: Okay, so I'm outta gas.
Matt: So yeah.
Travis: This is the most epic map ever, by the way.
Matt: Trinket's just chilling in the house. (sad bear noise) All righty. So that ends your held action, now Grog, you're up.
Travis: Can I walk around to the front of Kevdak, please?
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Knowing that he pointed up with a hand at Scanlan's beautiful ass, hand still on his greataxe, paralyzed, can I try and rip-- continuing my rage because he hit me last round-- can I pull the axe from his hand?
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Liam: He's going to fail this one.
Matt: With advantage, because you are raging.
Travis: 27.
Matt: Oof! You yank the bloodaxe from his grip.
Sam: Yes!
Travis: Because I'm frenzied raging, do I have another move?
Matt: I mean--
Travis: Like, can I hit him with it?
Matt: Let's check on that, because I don't know if it's an attack-action-based, because you didn't take an attack action last turn, you used your action to pull it away. Looking at that right now, the berserker is here. Let me see.
Sam: Lots of rules tonight, guys. Upper-level rules.
Matt: Yeah, it's a bonus action, so you could if you wanted to. The weapon isn't attuned to you, so it would just act as a regular axe, possibly.
Ashley: Make it attuned to you!
Marisha: That's a short rest.
Travis: Can I, looking at the axe, say, oh, I do hope you have a necromancer in your group, because I'm looking at a fucking dead man. (laughter)
Travis: Can I aim right above the gauntlet below the elbow on his left arm? Swing to his side with the axe.
Matt: Like on his left arm? Sure. You're going to be-- it's going to-- okay, so you're raging. Advantage. Well no, reckless attack would be the advantage if you wanted to.
Travis: Well, he did it against me so I get it against him.
Matt: Well, you have advantage against attacks with him anyway, because he's paralyzed. I will say, it'll have-- okay, you'll have advantage on the attack, but I will say it's a general minus five to the attack, just because it's a very specific called shot. Go for it.
Marisha: Do it, do it.
Travis: Oh, that's much better. 20.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: I don't know what the attack bonus is with the axe.
Matt: It's a d12, and add your strength modifier.
Travis: Okay. Where is it? Jesus.
Laura: That's it, that's it, that top one. That one. Yeah.
Matt: Poor d12.
Travis: This one? Plus what?
Matt: Strength modifier, which would be three.
Travis: Ah. So five.
Matt: Five. Whoosh, you hack the blade and it sinks quite a bit into the arm right above the elbow, you can see as you pull it out, a bit of bone is exposed from it, but the arm is still intact. It wasn't enough damage to go through, but he's like, (stifled yell)
Travis: And it hit him, right? So is it an automatic critical because it hit?
Matt: Because you were within five feet, so, yes. So double the dice. So what'd you roll on the dice?
Travis: So it was a two.
Matt: So four. So instead it would be seven damage. Still not enough. But you do do a significant amount of damage to his left arm. His now-open hand's gripping nothing. Actually the one hand was holding the axe and the other one was pointing up, so he's like, (strained sound) looking at you right now as the blood begins to seep out of the fresh wound on his left arm.
Travis: Do I have any of my movement left, can I move around behind him? 50.
Matt: You can move three more spaces, so yeah.
Travis: I'll either flank him or, yeah.
Matt: Three. That's where you can get, right there. Okay. That ends your turn. Surprise back, Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: This'll be fun, we'll see what happens. All right, first thing I'm going to do is cast Hex on Kevdak, on the asshole, I'm going to Hex him.
Matt: (laughs) Cast Hex on the asshole.
Taliesin: So he is now enveloped in my dark smoke of death. He's also now at disadvantage on all strength checks.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That's a thing.
Matt: That's the thing with Hex, all right. So yeah. You watch as Grog walks around him, Grog's shadow seems to stretch out from his form, reach up, and wrap itself around, almost merging with the tattoos across his torso. The actual bear tattoo almost seems to be almost covered with shadow.
Travis: I love you.
Taliesin: I know, I'm so happy. I'm going to take a little step back to get a slight bit of cover from those archers for when they start hearing the big bang-bangs coming from the house, to get half-cover, so I can still--
Matt: Which way are you going?
Taliesin: I'm going from my current vantage point, to about seven o'clock, eight o'clock.
Matt: About here?
Taliesin: Yeah, about there. For a little bit of cover from the arrows. And I can still see Kevdak.
Matt: Yes, you can.
Taliesin: So if I wanted to take my little pistol and start carving a little-- and I've got a nice little chunk of bone I can see in his arm-- can I take a sharpshooter disadvantage to hit that point?
Matt: You could. I'll move this board a little bit so you guys can see better.
Taliesin: So I'm going to shoot with sharpshooter specifically for his arm.
Matt: His left arm, you do not have a view on it right away.
Taliesin: Oh.
Matt: I would say from your perspective on the rooftop, because he was turned this way and is facing this way, you would have a big ol' view of his back and shoulders.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to take a shot for the elbow.
Matt: On this arm?
Taliesin: I'm going to try, yeah, on the visible elbow.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to sharpshooter through that shit, see what happens.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Okay. And I'm happy if you want to put any weird disadvantage--
Matt: You have advantage on the attack because he's paralyzed.
Taliesin: No, I don't, because I'm at distance. Or do I have advantage be--
Marisha: He's paralyzed.
Taliesin: Oh, he's paralyzed! I have advantage on the attack.
Matt: You have advantage on that, and then you have disadvantage because it's a called shot, plus minus five.
Taliesin: Okay, that's fine. But I get the bonus ten points still.
Matt: You would if you hit.
Taliesin: Okay. All right. That's fine. Natural 20.
All: Oh!
Travis: Oh my god, are you serious?
Marisha: Yeah, yeah.
Taliesin: Should've used the big gun, really. All right, that's okay. So that's, oh, hello baby, you're over here. Actually, I'm going to use the pink one--
Matt: What's the first range increment for the pistol?
Taliesin: 400 feet.
Matt: Yeah, okay.
Taliesin: I'm scary.
Matt: Gun. Go for it.
Taliesin: I know. Sorry. I know, I thought about that. Come on, baby, no whammies. Do I double the dice?
Matt: Double the dice and then add the modifier to it.
Taliesin: Okay, so that's 16, (counting), 32 points of damage for the first shot.
Matt: 32 points of damage? Okay, half of that into 16. (gunshot) You watch as the blast hits into the side of his arm. The arm actually hyperextends and part of the bone shoots out the side, and he goes and screams out. The arm does not, you know, it looks like it's in a rough place.
Taliesin: I'm shooting again. Same thing.
Laura: Oh my god, he's going to shoot his arm off.
Taliesin: 17, good enough. 17, I'm rolling good.
Matt: With the disadvantage?
Taliesin: No, it cancels out because he's-- it's no advantage, no disadvantage, right?
Matt: You got advantage because he's paralyzed, yeah. You're right, you're right. Hold Person, man. Nasty.
Taliesin: (counting) 25 to hit. That hits.
Sam: This is like 127 Hours, except with a gun.
Taliesin: That's the title of my, '127 Hours With a Gun'.
Liam: And remember, this is happening in about ten seconds.
Taliesin: I know. I actually, also, I rolled the wrong die, he didn't take nearly what, that's okay, so here.
Matt: Too late.
Taliesin: I know, too late. I know. I fucked that up.
Marisha: You rolled four, though.
Taliesin: Yeah, I know, so I did okay. Five, six, seven, eight-- (counting) 24 points of damage.
Matt: 24 points of damage. So minus that to 12, this is the same elbow?
Taliesin: Same elbow.
Matt: (gunshot) You see now, the arm actually is dangling now from some sort of sinew and bone that is barely keeping it on at this point.
Taliesin: Do you have a d6 that I can borrow? I'm going to go for my third, can I borrow your pink d6? I want to Bowie this shit. Yeah. I want to be flamboyant as fuck. All right. Going to call it. 14. (counting) 24 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: Goodbye, elbow. Eh, well, not bad. (counting) 23 points of damage.
Matt: Lower that to 11. Okay. This shot hits the elbow again, actually destroying a big portion of the upper forearm. It's now essentially but a single leftover bicep muscle that's holding it in place as blood's pouring from the wound right now.
Liam: Who wants bacon?
Taliesin: All right. I'm calling it for now.
Matt: All right, that ends Percy's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to roll up this roof like a big, ominous fog cloud. And come up, and I want to do a Whirlwind on those two archers up there.
Matt: Up here? Are you coming from up here, you mean?
Marisha: Yup.
Matt: All righty. Let's take this here.
Marisha: So they must make a DC 13 strength saving throw.
Taliesin: I haven't burned any grit yet, I'm so excited.
Matt: Balancing here, there we go. A DC what? Oh no! Keyleth's dead.
Laura: No!
Ashley: No!
Taliesin: Ironically, crushed by a tree. Curse you, nature.
Matt: All right, what's the DC on that?
Marisha: The thing that she loved killed her. 13. Strength.
Matt: Strength?
Taliesin: Strength check or save?
Matt: This is a saving throw.
Taliesin: Oh, damn. Does he still have disadvantage?
Sam: Except she's not attacking him.
Matt: Okay, one of them fails, one of them succeeds.
Marisha: Okay, so the one that fails takes 3d8 plus two bludgeoning damage, which is pretty good. 11, and he's flung 20 feet away. In a random direction.
Matt: In a random direction? All right. Let's go ahead and see what direction, that's a one, so he gets flung this way 20 feet?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Five, ten, 15, 20. (yells, impact). Falls prone there.
Marisha: He takes another 1d6 bludgeoning damage for every ten feet he was thrown.
Matt: Yes, that would be-- 2d6, that puts it at, I rolled double sixes on that, so that's 12 points of damage.
Travis: Yeah yeah!
Marisha: And he's knocked prone.
Matt: Yes he is.
Marisha: And the other guy--
Matt: (yells, impact), as this whirlwind of--
Laura: Ow ow ow ow.
Ashley: Ow ow ow ow.
Matt: Yeah, as you see, of the roof itself up there, portions of the rooftop are cracking off and spinning into the void of wind that Keyleth's currently creating within herself. Portions of the tree branches are swirling into it as various leaves and dead plant life that had been scattered around the roof are all filling this giant vortex that has appeared on the roof of the Margrave's house, tearing into both of the archers. One of them flung off, landing face-first, the other one--
Marisha: Takes half damage.
Matt: Takes half damage. Okay. All right. Five points of bludgeoning damage. All right. Does that finish your turn?
Marisha: Yup.
Matt: All right. Pike, you're up.
Sam: Yeah, Pike!
Ashley: Since I can't reach Kevdak, I'm going to send over a Spiritual Weapon.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Range is 60 feet.
Matt: Spiritual Weapon. As a cleric. That's a level... two?
Ashley: I'm going to do it at a higher level, I'm going to do it at a level five.
Taliesin: Five? Five?
Ashley: It's a big one. (laughter)
Liam: In the shape of Madeline Kahn and it's out for blood.
Matt: We'll use this metal d20, where do you want to place it?
Ashley: Right above him.
Matt: We'll say in this central area there.
Ashley: It's, I don't even know, a big--
Matt: What weapon of Sarenrae's retribution would you want to summon in spiritual form upon Kevdak?
Sam: A beartrap!
Ashley: I just want it to be a big sword.
Matt: Okay, so a large greathand sword, almost a light reflection mirror-image of the Craven Edge that nearly tore the soul from your friend--
Travis: Yes!
Matt: You see a large light blade of Sarenrae's wrath emerges out of the stonework in the center of the square. Floats in the air for a second, and you want to go ahead and make that, and this is your bonus action--
Ashley: This is a bonus action, yeah.
Matt: If you want to use your action to cast a spell, you can't do higher than a level two right now. Because of the limitations on spells in our homebrew. However, do you want to have it attack Kevdak?
Ashley: Yeah!
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll for the damage. With advantage.
Ashley: That would be a natural 20.
Laura: C'mon, Pike!
Ashley: All right, okay.
Marisha: We talked for a week!
Taliesin: Hundreds of text messages.
Matt: Wait 'til the surprise round's over.
Liam: You mean 30 seconds with the earring.
Matt: All right, so, you're looking at 4d8.
Ashley: Okay, I'm going to use Divine Strike to make it 5d8.
Matt: Well, that's only on your melee attack, it's not your actual spells.
Liam: It's all right, you're already a badass.
Matt: So roll 4d8, multiply that by two.
Sam: Multiply by two.
Matt: Critical hit.
Sam: Oh my god.
Ashley: What did you say?
Matt: You roll 4d8 times two.
Ashley: 22.
Matt: So 22 plus your wisdom modifier.
Ashley: Is 30.
Matt: So 30. Half that to 15.
Ashley: Aw.
Sam: Hey, that's good!
Matt: As the blade strikes down onto the now currently brutalized Kevdak who is still held in place angrily being whaled upon by the majority of you. So what else do you want to do this turn, if anything?
Laura: Oh yeah, you can still do other things!
Matt: You can move, you have an action.
Laura: This is a bonus!
Matt: It lasts for a minute, and it's not concentration.
Ashley: Yeah, I should probably, I should probably--
Matt: As a bonus action you can make it move and attack every round, so.
Ashley: Awesome. Okay, so I'm going to, would it be possible to get down on that bottom roof and hide?
Matt: Here?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: You could. Make an acrobatics check.
Taliesin: Clang clang clang.
Laura: You're going to roll, roll for it! I can't even read that. Oh.
Matt: What's the total?
Ashley: Five.
Matt: Fresh off the 20. Pike looks over the edge, leaps, hits a little bit to the side, her feet actually break-- from the weight of the armor and the angle you hit, break some of the shingles on the rooftop and you end up slipping onto your shield and you slide off the roof.
Laura: No!
Matt: And end up on the ground there.
Matt: You take seven points of damage from the fall, and you're knocked prone currently on the ground as you now see staring at you-- You're prone. A number of these angry Herd members that are all intent on murder at what's been happening.
Liam: I still think you're really cool.
Ashley: It's okay, I can run out of there with my Sprinter's Boots.
Matt: All right, Pike, that ends your turn. Now. I get to do some more stuff.
Taliesin: She's made of armor.
Sam: They're coming for you, Pike. You got a reaction or something?
Laura: Seriously. Pike, they're all coming for you.
Sam: Yeah. You're dead. Do you have a reaction of some sort? Do you have a reaction?
Marisha: Don't die, you are not dying tonight.
Ashley: It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, we're going to be fine, we're going to be fine.
Taliesin: She's made of armor and they're people with sticks, with sharp sticks.
Sam: Oh my god, she's going to die.
Marisha: She's not going to die, she's not going to die.
Sam: Love of my life.
Taliesin: Not in one round.
Marisha: There's only one guy who ran up to her.
Laura: Scanlan, would it say 'reaction' here?
Sam: She knows what her reactions are. You do have one.
Matt: All right, so. Three of these individuals, some of which you may have passed in your time, and two of which you see are members that were absorbed into the tribe from what was previously the Rivermaw tribe, (roar) give off these angry roars and go into an immediate rage, breaking the surprise element, and charge. Three of them on you, one of them goes darting across the field right towards you, Pike. With that, these, pull out this sheet here, these Herd of the Storm warmongers are going to go apeshit on your ass. Grog, that's six attacks on you. Because of the flanking rules, that's going to put four of them at advantage.
Sam: Oh my god.
Matt: First one is going to be an 18 to hit?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Misses. The first one goes and swings towards you, and you duck underneath it and whoomph, misses you by a mile. However, as that's happening, another blade comes the other direction, that's going to be a 25?
Travis: That hits.
Matt: Natural 20. Third one, so one hit. Second one's going to be a 28, so that's two hits and a critical. And then one that doesn't have advantage on you with both strikes is going to be 23, that hits, and a 16 that misses. So.
Sam: You do have inspiration.
Matt: Four hits and one crit.
Travis: I can't use it on this stuff, though. Only when I attack.
Matt: All righty. So, the four hits first. That's going to be 15 points of slashing damage.
Travis: Reduced to seven?
Matt: Reduced to seven. Right. Ooh, 19 points of slashing damage, reduced to eight.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: 13 points of slashing damage, reduced to six. And another 13, reduced to six. Now for the crit.
Taliesin: I would like to remind you that potions are a bonus action. Thank you.
Matt: (counting) That's going to be 22 points of slashing damage on that, reduced to 11.
Taliesin: Whew, you are a tank.
Laura: Unless he's unconscious.
Matt: Pike. So you're now surrounded on all sides, Kevdak's there before you, but you've now been completely swarmed in by three of these entities. Pike, this one rushes towards you, (battle-cry), this female half-elf, you can see a line of drool from her face with the sheer speed she was running and the froth that was forming at the corner of it. She leaps into the air, blade in front, and is going to come down on your tiny form. (counting) That's 28 to hit on the first one.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: And a 28. Rolled 18s on both advantage ones.
Ashley: Okay okay okay okay.
Matt: Right, so two hits on you, you take 19 points of slashing damage from the first strike.
Ashley: That's not halved? No, it's only halved because he's--
Matt: Only because he's raging.
Ashley: I'm a barbarian, too! (laughter)
Matt: 19 on the first strike, the second one is 13, so that's a total of 32 points of slashing damage to you. And that's going to end the barbarians' turn, everyone else finishes out surprise round, now we're back into full initiative, everyone's in play, top of the round, Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. If I aim an arrow, it's at disadvantage?
Matt: If you aimed specifically for something? It would be at disadvantage and a minus five to hit.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to cast, I'm going to cast--
Matt: I mean, he's paralyzed, so it would have advantage, so it would cancel out, it would be just a regular attack at minus five.
Laura: Okay, here's my question.
Matt: Yes?
Laura: The siege arrow that Percy gave me, is that a magical weapon or a technical weapon?
Matt: It's a technical weapon, it's used essentially against structures, objects.
Laura: So just structures.
Matt: It's an explosive in an arrow that is used primarily to destroy structures, yeah.
Laura: So it wouldn't harm people?
Matt: I mean, it would hurt people like a regular arrow, and it might do a little bit extra, but--
Laura: Not anything crazy?
Matt: Not that you know of, you don't have a full understanding of what the arrow's capable of. You did not create it.
Taliesin: I gave you the big debrief with the arrow, I gave you the how-to--
Laura: I know I know I know I know.
Matt: What're you doing? Hurry.
Laura: Okay okay okay! Okay!
Matt: Vax, you're on deck.
Laura: I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns at third level into a group, the group. At Kevdak.
Travis: No. Whatever you're going to do. Just do it.
Laura: Just do it? I'm going to do it at Kevdak and anything that is close to him gets hit. Anything--
Matt: Within five feet of him? And you're doing it at what level?
Laura: At level three.
Matt: Level three, so that's 3d10 points of piercing damage. All righty. Okay. So go ahead and make an attack against Kevdak, that is going to be-- Yeah, with advantage because it's not an aimed shot, so go ahead and take it.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: Are you serious?
Taliesin: You've been doing it all night, too. I figure, you know, it's only fair.
Matt: I've gotten like one.
Taliesin: No, you've had more than one. We've been counting.
Matt: I've had two?
Liam: Two for Kevdak's initiative and two for here.
Matt: That's true, that's true, I actually, could've been worse. All right, so. Go ahead and roll against Kevdak, that is going to be six, or 3d10 times two.
Laura: Oh, 3d10? Oh.
Sam: Yeah, oh.
Laura: 20, plus an additional-- oh no, Hunter's Mark dropped because it's a concentration. But I am sneaking-attacking. An additional six. Oh, that's 12 then, because it doubles the dice.
Matt: Correct, yeah.
Laura: So that's 32 points of damage.
Matt: 32 on him, reduce that to 16 piercing. All righty. And then all the rest of them have to make dexterity saving throws against your spell DC. What's your spell DC? This includes Grog.
Laura: 15.
Sam: C'mon, Groggy.
Travis: What, what was it?
Laura: 15.
Travis: What 15?
Sam: You got to make a save to get outta the way. With inspiration.
Laura: With inspiration.
Travis: 17.
Matt: All right, so half damage to you, Grog.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Which is halved again, one quarter, because there's a whole bunch of raging individuals.
Travis: 32, halved is 16, which is eight.
Matt: Two of them succeed as well and also take eight damage.
Laura: They're barbarians as well?
Sam: They're raging? They're raging.
Matt: And then one of them takes full damage at 16. All righty. So. That concludes your action. You want to move, or you going to stay where you are?
Laura: If I fly on my broom, can I go down and grab Pike? As an action? I mean, as a movement?
Matt: It's going to be hard-pressed for you this turn to pull out your broom. I mean, you've been clutching your broom with you this whole time, you leaned it up against the wall as you hid down there?
Laura: Okay. I'm going to stay where I am. And I'm going to hide against the window so nobody can see me.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Against on-- yeah, like that.
Matt: That brings us to the next in the initiative order, Vax.
Liam: All right, I want to preface this with, last week I misspoke, I thought I had one Luck left as I used it, but I got it backwards, so I have one Luck left this week in case I want to use it.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Go back and look at the videotape.
Liam: You can. Well no, I said the wrong thing. But anyway, I want to use my first action to shove that archer backward off the roof.
Matt: Shove them?
Liam: Yeah, shove them off.
Matt: All right, let's go ahead and do a shove action. Find myself on this one here-- all right, so, for shove-- I need you to go ahead and--
Liam: Strength?
Matt: --make an athletics check.
Liam: Athletics check.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: I'm going to trigger the Luck right now.
Matt: All right.
Liam: That helped it, yeah. That gets it to 20.
Matt: To 20? That's going to be a 12.
Laura: Yay!
Marisha: Yay!
Matt: So you shove it five feet. This way? All right, so it's going to go ahead and make an acrobatics--
Liam: Ah, no, towards you, Matt, was my intention, yeah.
Matt: Towards me? All right, this way. Shove, they do make an acrobatics check but they do land off the side here. So they take eight points of damage being pushed off the side. All righty.
Sam: This board is incredible.
Matt: So that person's now fallen out of sight (yells), off the side.
Liam: Now, question  am I able to use my bonus action to hide behind that chimney from Kevdak's view, and the archers are, am I able to do that? Just with Kevdak?
Matt: Yeah, the chimney should offer you enough, and you have a tree between the two of you anyway.
Liam: Okay. So I hide behind the chimney.
Matt: Make a dexterity, make a stealth check.
Liam: Stealth check. That's 25.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And I would like to use my last action to throw at Kevdak, so I should still have advantage, because he's held, and I should have, if I'm hiding, it's a sneak attack, isn't it?
Matt: Well, sneak attack is if it's an attack with advantage anyway.
Liam: Oh, my friend's still next to him. Oh, then, then, excuse me, I would like to throw two daggers.
Matt: Well, the shove was your action.
Liam: Right, and I did the boots, so I have action-action-bonus action.
Matt: Okay, hold on. Let me see if it's-- You don't have two actions, you have two attacks. Let me check and see if it is. There is a distinction there.
Liam: Every millimeter counts tonight.
Matt: Yeah, this attack replaces one of them, if you have multiple attacks, with the attack action, which you don't. So you have your offhand bonus and the haste one, so you do have--
Liam: Two attacks right now. Okay. So first one is an 18 to hit Kevdak, second one is a 25 to hit Kevdak.
Matt: Both hit.
Liam: Both hit. Okay. So the first one, (counting).
Marisha: That rogue damage. That rogue damage!
Liam: I'm missing a big pile of dice! Eight, 12, 13, 19, 22, 28, 30, 36.
Matt: 36, half that to-- I know, that brings it to 36, 18.
Liam: Is it? It's not a crit, right?
Matt: No, but it's half-damage for him.
Liam: Right, I have to be right up against him to get a crit, and the second dagger does eight halved to four.
Matt: Okay, four damage, gotcha. Total 22 points of damage on him. As he's taking all these hits. All right.
Liam: And I have a little bit of movement, right?
Matt: You do have a little bit of movement, because you--
Liam: I'll go fwoosh, right up against the flat side, right below Keyleth, pressed against the wall there.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Looking up her windskirts?
Liam: No. Not that.
Marisha: I've got a Marilyn Monroe thing going on in my air elemental, oh.
Matt: There we go. So you're now hidden up against that roof right below there, and your stealth check was 25 earlier, so we'll go with that.
Liam: All right, maybe, maybe a quick look. Maybe a quick look.
Matt: Move the board a little bit for the people that are watching so they can get a better view here. There we go. So you're over here. Right here, Liam. All right. So! That brings us to--
Liam: Oh, shit! Never mind.
Sam: Six more attacks!
Matt: No, you're done, your turn's over.
Liam: Never mind, I didn't say it, I didn't say it so it doesn't matter.
Matt: Yeah. All right, so. This archer here is going to turn, looking over at the-- let's see. He's currently handled, he's okay right there. This archer saw you firing. Over in that hide, he's going to turn to you.
Taliesin: I'm looking at him right now, actually, I've got my gun in my left hand and I'm looking at him.
Matt: Archer's going to take two shots, pulling on his longbow, (arrow sounds). Two arrows at you, Percy.
Taliesin: I smile the whole time. Bring it.
Liam: Staring at him with that dead-in-the-eyes Percy look? Yeah.
Taliesin: Do not fuck with Reed Richards. He will fuck you up.
Matt: That is a 20 to hit on the first one.
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: And a 25 on the second.
Taliesin: That, that also hits.
Sam: Everybody's rolling high tonight. Except us.
Matt: First one is 11 points of piercing damage to you.
Taliesin: 11 for the first one?
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: I take it in the shoulder.
Matt: All right. The second one is going to go ahead and do 13 points of piercing damage.
Taliesin: That one I'm going to catch.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll for it.
Sam: Gloves of Missile Snaring!
Taliesin: That's 14, so not only does it do no damage, I actually take it and catch.
Matt: You catch the arrow in front of your face.
Taliesin: Snap it.
Matt: (laughs) That's amazing.
Taliesin: And the gun is going to turn to look at him.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Laura: Nice, Percy.
Matt: You can see from the distance the visage of this half-orc looks back as you do that and goes-- And goes to shakily-- hand reaching back for another arrow. This archer's going to go ahead and leap down onto here. Oh, you do get an attack of opportunity on him.
Laura: He knocks down a tree in the process.
Marisha: What a dick! That's a natural 18, so that's a 26.
Matt: Pretty sure that hits. Also rolled a natural 19 on the acrobatics check, so lands fine, but you do manage to do one attack worth of damage to him as he jumps down.
Liam: Airsoft shot to the nuts.
Marisha: I rolled double ones.
Laura: Pathetic!
Marisha: Plus five, so seven.
Laura: That's not bad, that's not bad.
Marisha: Little damage.
Liam: Something to remember you by.
Ashley: Maybe he only has like ten hit points.
Matt: Cool, so your elemental form swings wide, manages to slam the bottom of them as they leap down, sending them into a spin, but they do manage to catch themself because they're quite acrobatic. In doing so, they step up to the very edge here to their friend, who is currently on the ground, who is also going to get up there, and they're both going to look at each other, pull their arrows out, and they're going to go ahead and make a series of strikes. Let's see. This one here is going to go ahead and is going to shoot at Pike, because Pike's on the ground. And this one's going to go ahead and strike at Grog, because it can't see Percy over there through the tree. So Grog--
Laura: Natural one, natural one.
Matt: That is a 19.
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Misses you? (arrow sound) One arrow hits the bit of your shoulder armor right here and shatters off the bone. The second one, however, is a 26.
Travis: Yes, that hits.
Matt: All right, so. From that one, you take, I don't like that, cocked. Nine points of piercing damage. Reduced to four. The one that's taking two strikes at you, Pike, because you're on the ground, now.
Ashley: It's also probably very hard for him to shoot through the people that are attacking me.
Matt: There is one individual attacking you that is on the other side of your body, so you're pretty visible from that point in time.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: She's really little.
Matt: However, the attack, because you are prone, it has disadvantage on the attack rolls with you because it's not within five feet of you. But it's going to go ahead and attempt to make it. Two 17s in a row. Plus ten, that's-- sorry, not plus ten, plus eight on the archers, yeah, plus eight. So that's 25?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: And natural one on the other disadvantage, so that misses. You take 13 points of piercing damage from one of the arrows, (arrow sound). So it's going to do there. They finish their turns. This one is going to, being pushed, shoved off, come around here.
Marisha: What? Who's that?
Laura: Oh, that's the one you pushed off the roof.
Matt: Is going to come over this way and hide to the side. Just going to watch what's happening. That finishes the archers' turn. Kevdak. (grunts) Unable to do anything, is going to attempt to make a saving throw. And that is going to be a total of 18. What's your DC?
Sam: 20. (yelling)
Travis: Oh, Scanlan! I will make out with that fucking shirt, I swear to god!
Sam: I mean, my spell DC's 18, but with the Hand Cone of Clarity, okay.
Taliesin: Don't talk him out of it.
Sam: Just making sure.
Matt: Oh man. All right, well, that ends Kevdak's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Okay. I, while maintaining concentration I can still use the wand to do things, yeah? So I'll use three charges of the Wand of Fireballs.
Matt: What're you doing now?
Sam: I'm aiming a Fireball right around there.
Matt: So moving up to here.
Sam: Oh yes, I guess I have to move forward to attack. Can I get a radius that includes Kevdak and these guys over here?
Matt: Yeah, you can do that.
Sam: But not Pike. And hopefully not Grog if my aim is true.
Matt: Yeah, if you get it there you can manage to hit all of them but Grog right there.
Sam: Okay.
Ashley: Go Scanlan!
Matt: One, two, three, four, five, six.
Sam: Okay. Three charges is 10d6.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll that. Kevdak automatically fails, because he's paralyzed.
Liam: Yeah. MVP.
Matt: So does Greenbeard.
Sam: 34.
Matt: All right, so. 34, reduced to half because he's raging. That brings it to six, no, 17. All right, and then Greenbeard takes 34. The other ones there, they do not get advantages because they're all just fighters, that's a failure, failure, what was the spell DC on the wand? Because it's different from yours.
Sam: DC's 15, I wrote it down. DC 15.
Matt: Okay, so that's a success. Success. So two of them over there take-- all right.
Taliesin: It'll be fine, it'll be fine, things are working.
Matt: All righty. Great, so (explosion). Giant burst of flame hits, it actually sets fire to this entire structure. The wooden barricade is in flames, we'll say for the purposes of considering that.
Sam: There's flaming spikes on the field!
Marisha: Flaming spikes!
Matt: All right, so. There we go. There is currently--
Taliesin: I was really hoping you were going to come up with a-- oh wow, that's actually-- never mind, I am not disappointed at all.
Matt: So those are on fire.
Marisha: Hah, 'I thought you were going to come out with a f-- that, that, yeah, that works, that.'
Matt: All right. So.
Sam: I'm going to try to do the Pike move and jump down one level.
Matt: Down there? All right, make an acrobatics check.
Sam: Oh, Jesus. Okay, okay. 14-- 19!
Matt: 19. You leap down and make it right there.
Sam: Okay. And I will, with the bonus, I will heal Grog with a Healing Word.
Matt: Healing Word, okay. What's the range on it?
Sam: Oh. 60 feet for Healing Word, I believe. Right?
Matt: He's just out of your range.
Sam: Okay, well then I will heal Pike, is that okay?
Matt: You can do that, you can shout over the side. You have to get into view of her, which means you have to move a little bit closer to the edge, but yeah.
Sam: Okay, I'll do that.
Matt: Okay, so you get about there, glance off the side. All right. Go for it.
Sam: I'll peek over the side and say, (singing) Never going to fuck you up, never going to let you down, never going to run around and not heal you. (laughter)
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll your heal for Pike. Grog, you're up next.
Sam: Yeah, seven points!
Ashley: Oh, I'll take it.
Matt: Hey, it all helps. All right. And with that, Grog, you're up.
Laura: Oh my god. (singing) Natural crit.
Travis: So in my frenzied reckless attacking, great weapon master, can I bring my axe up high and swing it for the first attack to his left side where dangly hand is?
Matt: You can, go for it. Your regular straight attack. You have advantage, and then it's disadvantage for that, so that brings it to a regular attack. Minus five.
Travis: Disadvantage for the?
Matt: Because of the called shot.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: But then advantage because it's reckless?
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23? Hits. With the minus five?
Travis: No. 18.
Matt: Still hits. (cheering)
Taliesin: You asshole.
Matt: So it's a d12.
Travis: (counting) 20 for the first one. 30, with great weapon master.
Laura: But you double your dice because it's a natural crit, because he's five feet away.
Matt: Because he's paralyzed and five feet away.
Travis: 60.
Laura: No, just your dice, double your dice.
Matt: This is with your axe, right? So with the axe, it's a d12 plus your raging bonus, plus your strength.
Travis: 11. Which is seven. Or eight. Rage bonus is eight.
Matt: Well, the rage bonus should be plus-- the total becomes plus--
Travis: Oh sorry, the total bonus is eight.
Matt: Three plus-- four, isn't it, right now? So it should be seven.
Travis: That's why that's a seven. That's it. Right.
Matt: Yeah. You're not using your warhammer. You're not attuned to this weapon.
Travis: Right, okay, so whatever.
Matt: So what'd you roll on the dice?
Travis: 11.
Matt: 11. Technically it's a critical hit. So, I mean, it's a critical hit, so you do your brutal critical. You roll two more d12s. So it was an 11 times two, that's 22, plus seven, that's 29, plus 2d12.
Travis: Five, so that's 34.
Matt: 34.
Travis: And a nine, so that's 43.
Matt: 43 reduced to half, that's 21 points of slashing damage.
Travis: And that's the first one, called shot.
Matt: With that, thunk, the blade finds its way into his side, as you hear cracking on the rock below him, the sound of the left gauntlet, (cracking) hitting the bottom of the square. The fingers twitch in the gauntlet as he's currently standing there with his left arm bisected from the rest of his body.
Laura: Does he shrink?
Matt: No.
Laura: Dammit.
Travis: Second attack, straight across his back.
Matt: Okay, straight into his back?
Sam: Does another smaller doll hand come out to replace it?
Laura: Teeny tiny.
Travis: That is a 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Travis: Yeah, 22. Okay. And that's four, so double this-- 12, right? So four times two is eight. Plus four is 11. Math is a bitch. And two more of them? Because it's a critical? Okay. Seven. And a nine.
Matt: 28, half that is 14.
Laura: Math! Math is fun!
Matt: So you're hacking into him, you see the wounds are opened and his body is shaking from the amount of pain that's wracking him at this time. He's still holding up against a lot of damage that's come to him, but he's starting to look a little rough.
Travis: So I have my third frenzied attack for a bonus action, right? With my bonus action I have one superior healing potion. Can I take that?
Matt: You can, yeah. That will heal you, a superior, let's see. Superior is 8d4 plus eight.
Travis: 8d4 plus eight?
Matt: Your superior, that's the expensive one you guys got.
Liam: 8d4, four-sided, the four-sided. Pyramids.
Travis: Fuck me, asshole. Fuck. Fuck me asshole! Seven. Nine. Ele-- 12. 14. 16. 19. 20. 20.
Matt: All right, so you heal 20. All right, that ends your turn, Grog. All righty. Unless you want to move.
Travis: Can I, can I-- huh?
Laura: You could pick it up.
Travis: I can't pick it up, I can only move.
Matt: I mean, you have, you wouldn't be able to wield your axe.
Laura: But can you put it in the Bag of Holding?
Matt: Next turn, if you want to try it.
Travis: No, I'm going to, can I move, if I stay in his flank, if I move away from the three guys that are surrounding me, they're--
Matt: They're all going to get an attack on you.
Travis: I'll stay.
Matt: All right. All right, so that finishes your turn, Grog.
Travis: Yes, thank you.
Matt: Next up is Greenbeard, who is currently frozen in place, however, rolls an 18 plus five, as far as, his wisdom is plus ten, so that puts him at 28. So he resists the Hold Person and is currently no longer affected by that. All right, that finishes his turn, though, because that's the end of his turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: All right. This is going to be fun. That asshole who just shot me, I'm now aiming at him. And I'm going to push him off the roof, this'll be fun. So, pushing him off the roof, am I going to do extra damage to him, or am I?
Liam: If he hits. If he hits the ground.
Taliesin: Well, I mean, I'm debating whether or not to sharpshooter it to do-- no, I think I'll just push him off the roof. It's funnier.
Travis: I can feel my heartbeat in my face.
Laura: I know, I can't tell if it's actually really warm in here or if we're all just really hot.
Matt: Probably a little bit of column A, a little bit of column B. What was it?
Taliesin: 28 to hit.
Matt: 28 hits. Non-sharpshooter?
Taliesin: Non-sharpshooter.
Sam: Dullshooter.
Taliesin: But I'm doing a torso shot. So he gets no save, there's no save for the torso shot, he's going to take his damage and move ten feet away from me.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So. That's 14 points of damage, of piercing damage.
Matt: 14 points of piercing damage and he gets shoved off the back of the roof, he's going to make an acrobatics check, which he succeeds, so he lands down there and he only takes one point of damage from the fall, but. There you go.
Taliesin: Fine. I'm going to reload, and now, what am I going to do? Let's see.
Sam: Jump down the chimney, deliver presents.
Taliesin: Surveying the field, trying to make some decisions.
Sam: Help Pike!
Taliesin: I can't. Well!
Marisha: Can you hit Greenbeard?
Taliesin: I can hit Greenbeard, I'm going to hit Greenbeard. He's got the magicky creepy thing, right?
Laura: Yeah, he's gross. He's got mold on his neck.
Matt: Fungal moss on his whole neck and chest area.
Taliesin: All right. Well, we'll see how things go. Let's do a sharpshooter shot at him right now. Let's see what a little bit of damage does to him. So sharpshooter with Retort. Don't miss. And my pistol goes (breaking sound). (groaning)
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: And I'm putting it away, so.
Matt: Okay, all right, so that's going to end your turn? Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: All right. Tornado's coming down the house. I'm going to hit these two guys with a Whirlwind again.
Matt: Right here?
Marisha: Yep. 13 strength save.
Matt: 13 strength saves on both of them. Archers-- all right. That's a natural 19 plus two, and two natural 19s in a row. Yeah, they both make their saves.
Marisha: So nine plus-- oh, one more d8. Plus another five, so that was 12 plus five is 17, plus another two, so 19 halved.
Matt: 19 halved? All right, so that puts them at nine points of bludgeoning damage each. Not really having much of an effect at this point in the fight, however, as you swirl around, picking up the debris from the roof as you can, it slams into them and they brace against it, but they still, glancing over their shoulder, realize that they've got to continue what they're doing now. The bigger threat appears to be out in front of them.
Marisha: I'm staying in their space, by the way.
Matt: Right, right, so you're up in there. Up in their shit.
Laura: Up in their business? Oh, it fell anyway! It happened.
Matt: There you go. No. All righty. Finished your turn? All right. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: All right. I'm going to put on my Sprinter's Boots.
Matt: They're on you, right?
Ashley: What's that?
Matt: So you're getting up, that's half your movement to stand up, all right.
Ashley: Yeah. Okay. And I'm going to run around towards the back of the house.
Matt: This way?
Sam: Door.
Matt: What're you doing? Ashley, what're you doing? So your Sprinter's Boots activate, which gives you double movement. Right? So you can move 50 feet. But you moved up, it took you 25 to stand up because it's half your speed to get up from prone, so you still have 25 feet you can move.
Ashley: Okay, so I'm going to go around to the side.
Matt: This side? All right, so you move. Here? Right?
Ashley: Yeah, as far as it'll--
Matt: Okay, so you rush over there. That one guy takes a swing at you as you rush by, gah!, or girl I should say, the female half-elf swings with the giant blade. That's going to be a 23?
Ashley: Fuck. Yeah.
Matt: Okay. As the blade smacks you from behind as you rush past, you suffer 14 points of slashing damage. In your back. But you keep running around the edge. All right, what are you doing?
Ashley: All right, I'm going to heal myself.
Matt: All righty.
Ashley: A little, doing a little rough here. I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself. At third level.
Sam: Isn't this exciting?
Liam: Yes it is!
Marisha: Good times, guys.
Sam: We're fighting a horde of goliaths!
Matt: What you got, Ashley?
Ashley: What's that?
Matt: What you got, what you doing?
Ashley: Oh, I cast Cure Wounds on myself.
Matt: And you're done? You're healed up? Okay, that's the end of your turn.
Ashley: I can't do any, don't I have a bonus action?
Matt: You have a bonus action still if you want.
Laura: You got your spiritual weapon still.
Ashley: Okay, I'm going to use my spiritual weapon on him again, on Kevdak.
Matt: Okay, so go ahead and swing for the attack on that one.
Ashley: Okay, and I'm going to use Guided Strike?
Matt: Well, I mean, yeah, you have advantage. You have advantage on the attack, by the way, he's paralyzed. He's still paralyzed.
Laura: Oh, that's good!
Ashley: It's still under it.
Laura: Don't you add anything to it?
Matt: Add your spell attack.
Ashley: Oh, yeah, well then I'm great. Fuck, I'm forgetting everything, I'm so nervous!
Matt: It's okay, you've been away for a while.
Ashley: Okay. Yeah, we're good to go. 22.
Matt: 22? That hits. So go ahead and roll your 3d8, I think it is, no, 4d8.
Laura: 4d8.
Matt: Plus your wisdom modifier, which is plus-- what's your wisdom modifier?
Sam: She's doing math, give her a second.
Taliesin: Dice are doubled, too? The weapon's within five feet.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Sam: (nerdy voice) Oh, the weapon's within five feet.
Laura: Do you add the spell attack bonus to it?
Taliesin: Suck it, nerd. Dear god.
Matt: No, it's not attack, it's your wisdom modifier, but what's the dice, the dice are doubled because it's a critical hit.
Travis: 18.
Laura: Times two.
Matt: 36, half that to 18. Then add your wisdom modifier.
Laura: Plus four!
Matt: Plus four. All right, so. Half of that would be two, so 20. 20 points of damage to him from the strike of that. All righty, that finishes your turn.
Travis: Does your piece of paper back there look like Stephen Hawking's chalkboard?
Matt: Kind of, right now, yeah.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: That's actually way more organized than I thought it would be.
Travis: Young Stephen Hawking. You horrible, horrible person.
Matt: First, the woman who just swung past you is going to go ahead and rush around the corner as well and follow you, since you got out of the way. Rush into and go after you, Pike. The three that are on you, Grog, are still going to, after watching you cut one of Kevdak's arms off, roar angrily around you, all three of them (roar), and go into another round of angry, angry strikes against you.
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: All right, so that comes to you, Grog, since you did reckless attack on him for the stuff, they all have advantage on you anyway, so all the attacks are with advantage, that's six attacks.
Marisha: Six attacks.
Matt: That's a natural 20. (yelling)
Matt: 26 on the second. 23 on the third.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: 24 on the fourth.
Taliesin: Can you roll poorly?
Matt: 26 on the fifth.
Sam: Wow.
Liam: Welcome to our production of Julius Caesar.
Matt: No, they all, five hits and one crit.
Laura: What?
Matt: They all hit, yeah. Reckless attack puts you in a bad position when you're surrounded with guys that can do multiple hits that are also barbarians.
Liam: Here it comes.
Marisha: Get that barbarian's resistance.
Matt: We'll do the crit first on you.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: You already used the Stone's Resistance. Oh, the barbarian, yeah. So that'll help.
Travis: Don't say the word yet.
Marisha: Well.
Sam: Is it that thing where you die?
Matt: Seven plus eight, 15, reduced to half, that's seven. So I'll give you the direct amounts here. So this is with the reduction. So that's seven points of slashing damage. Another seven.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Another seven.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Here we go. That's a nine.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Not that great. That's a six.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And then now the crit.
Laura: I thought you said the first one was a crit.
Liam: That's what you said.
Matt: And then I thought differently but I didn't say it out loud, but because you're calling me on it, I'll let it happen.
All: No, no, no.
Liam: Are you saying what's in your head is different than what's in my head?
Matt: Okay. That was double sixes. So that's 22 plus eight is 30, so 15 points of slashing damage. On all those strikes against you. Pike? Two attacks on you.
Sam: You still alive there?
Matt: That's a natural 20. And that's 15.
Ashley: No.
Matt: No, so. That is a one and two, so that's three, six plus eight, you take 14 points of slashing damage from this barbarian female who's all up on your grill.
Ashley: I hate this bitch!
Matt: Ending that turn, it's now the druid's turn over here. End of surprise round, the druid's going to rush forward here. And do a 5th-level Cure Wounds. On Kevdak.
Taliesin: No!
Marisha: I mean, he doesn't have an arm, he doesn't have the arm. That was-- he can't get that back.
Liam: He can't get the bone or stuff, I hope.
Marisha: I know, how does that work if you only have half your--
Liam: Ask that guy.
Matt: All right, we're looking at 5d8.
Sam: You know what? Fuck it. I'll Counterspell that.
Matt: Yeah, it's too high, or no, okay. So. It's at a fifth level. Go ahead and roll for it, adding, so it's d20 plus five, plus two because of your bardic knowledge.
Laura: That's not concentration, it doesn't do anything.
Sam: It's not concentration, right, Counterspell? So what do I do, just a d20?
Matt: Roll a d20, add seven.
Sam: 17.
Matt: Let me check here real fast. Plus the spell's level. Yeah. It's dispelled.
Sam: It's dispelled?
Matt: Yeah, Counterspell. (cheering)
Matt: It was 15, was what he had to beat.
Marisha: MVP this fight!
Taliesin: Oh my god, Sam. Oh my god.
Liam: Scanlan's going to Disneyworld!
Matt: Okay. (laughs) All right. That ends his turn. Now. So. This guy here, let's see. Got to stand up for this one, pardon me.
Sam: Oh, shoot.
Laura: Shit. Shit.
Ashley: Should we just take a break or something?
Sam: The benches we're sitting on are covered in so much ass sweat right now.
Matt: We'll say for the sake of this, going to put him up there.
Sam: Who dat? Who's up there? What's going on right there?
Matt: This guy jumps up this way.
Sam: Hey wait, well, that's where I am, I don't want him to come up there!
Matt: Too bad.
Taliesin: Does he get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: These two guys rush forward and grab these innocents here.
Laura: Oh my god. This is where it all turns.
Ashley: Because I fucking fell off the fucking roof.
Matt: Yeah, into the middle here, towards the fire.
Liam: Head of the snake.
Marisha: Into the fire? What?
Matt: Pushing them towards the fire with what remains of their movement. Let's see, this guy's going to move in towards Grog there. This archer's going to get back up--
Sam: (belches) Pardon me. Was that out loud?
Marisha: It's okay, we're not live.
Laura: No!
Matt: Well actually, no, archers aren't part of this movement. This guy here's going to move into Grog there.
Sam: Now he has seven people attacking him.
Matt: I don't know what to tell you, man. These guys here, seeing, hah. This guy's going to be up with this one here. This guy can't really get over there, so he's going to go ahead and rush forward.
Laura: How many people are there? I feel like there's so many more people than there were.
Taliesin: How do you own this many models?
Laura: Why are you doing this to Pike? Stop hurting her!
Sam: Only you can protect her.
Ashley: We should've killed the guys first.
Taliesin: There's no should'ves, this is what we got.
Ashley: Okay guys, we can do this, we can do this.
Marisha: It was going pretty well.
Laura: Why did it all turn?
Marisha: How did he fucking scale that fast?
Laura: Because he can roll acrobatics just like we can!
Matt: Because they're-- yeah, you guys can do it, they can do it too. And they're pretty strong. So he basically runs up, puts the sword on his back, jumps up onto the roof, pulls the weapon. He doesn't manage to get an attack on you, because it took all of his movement to get up there. But he gets up there.
Marisha: No one wants to fuck with the elemental? Really? No one?
Matt: Right now, you're not a huge threat to them at the moment and they're both going to focus actually on you, Scanlan. When it gets around to their turn, though. This guy's going to go ahead and pull both of these innocent folk in front of them as a shield. This guy's going to get freaked out, rush around the building and try to escape there. Okay. So! Bringing us into the combat portion of the round, Grog, you have two more attacking you. This is the bladestorms.
Travis: Bladestorms?
Matt: With advantage, that's going to be a 14.
Travis: That'll miss. I haven't said that much tonight.
Matt: 18?
Travis: That misses.
Matt: So first one, both attacks swinging across you, you're feeling it on your back, but it's catching most of your armor and part of your flesh that is nice and calloused and does not really do any damage. The second one rolls a 20. Second one, and second attack on the second one is a 21.
Travis: That hits, yeah.
Matt: Yeah. Okay. So you get a critical and hit on this one. So this is the bladestorm. Critical is going to be 16, eight points of slashing damage on that one. And the next one's going to be four points of slashing damage. This is already halved. Just so you know. So that's that round there. Against Pike, only one of them could get to you and still attack this round, so Pike, that's 19?
Ashley: Misses.
Matt: And that's going to be a 15.
Ashley: Misses.
Matt: So one strikes against you, hits the back of the armor and streaks off, so you spin around as the second blade comes around and you deflect it with the shield angrily.
Marisha: Yes!
Ashley: This is so fucking stressful!
Matt: That brings us back to the top of the initiative order. Vex, you're up.
Sam: What, they just approached me, they didn't attack me?
Matt: Oh, there was the one guy that got up there with movement. Thank you for the reminder. So before that happens, actually, reminder, this one did have enough movement to get up there and still get attacks off on you.
Laura: Okay, he's attacking Percy.
Sam: No, he's attacking me.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: That's going to be a 13 with the first strike.
Sam: That misses.
Matt: Misses, second one's going to be a 22.
Sam: That just hits. (laughter)
Matt: All right, that's going to be 17 points of slashing damage from that greatsword, whoosh. I need you to go ahead and make a concentration check.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: Yeah, you have Warcaster, so you have advantage on that.
Laura: Come on, Scanlan.
Sam: 15-- plus anything?
Matt: It's a constitution.
Sam: Ooh. Plus two. 17.
Matt: So 17.
Taliesin: That's pretty good.
Matt: Going to check it real fast, concentration here-- plus ten, half the damage you take. So that would be ten, yeah, you maintain concentration.
Laura: Oh, thank god.
Travis: We might as well just be doing this on a treadmill, because I think I'm pretty close to 130?
Matt: All right, Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to fly out of the window on the broom.
Liam: The roof blows off.
Laura: Out of the window.
Matt: Where do you want to go?
Laura: I'm going to fly down and I'm going to shout, Grog! Raise your arm! And I'm going to go down and I'm going to hit his hand with the Pokeball.
Liam: Shit.
Matt: You're going to scoot by here?
Laura: I'm above, I want to be high up in the air but low enough that I can reach down and touch the locket to Grog's hand.
Matt: Okay, it's a good thing Kevdak is paralyzed, because otherwise he'd get an attack on you.
Laura: I know, I know.
Matt: This will put you in range for their strikes, so you're going to have to stay in place or move past and suffer five attacks of opportunity.
Laura: Wait, all of them can attack, but I'm in the air!
Matt: But for you to get low enough to hand him that, they all have big double greatswords, and they're-- well, half of them are half-giants. So you can do this. As you swish up, which you've already said you're going to do, you fly up and you reach down.
Laura: With the locket and I hit.
Matt: With the locket and you hand over to him, do you--
Laura: I don't hand it to him.
Matt: Okay. So you just hold it there?
Laura: I'm putting Grog in the fucking locket.
Matt: Oh.
Travis: She's trying to medevac me.
Matt: I misunderstood what you were trying to do. All right, so, what--
Laura: I want to fly by and poof and keep going.
Matt: What's it say again?
Laura: It's a wisdom save, but if it's a willing person they can go in.
Matt: Yeah. So, Grog, are you willing?
Travis: Well. Yes.
Matt: And with that, as you reach down and touch Grog with it, you see Grog's form shimmer for a second into dark shadow, and then vanish inside--
Laura: And I want to fly on past and go up to the next roof.
Matt: Okay. So Grog is currently off the table as he's locked inside the gauntlet.
Laura: Where should I go, where should I go?
Matt: Where are you going? As you rush away, you do get--
Laura: I'm going to fly back into the-- I'm going to fly around the back of the big building.
Matt: Back here, you mean?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. We'll say for the purposes of this, you are back here.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: As you fly off from doing this, all of them swing wide at you, that's five attacks of opportunity against you. That's 20.
Laura: Hits.
Matt: That is 17.
Laura: It did? What'd you, what'd you give me?
Travis: Yeah, she gave you, she handed out, before we moved out.
Laura: Oh, that's right, she gave me a blessing.
Matt: Well, it's Aid, you have 15 extra hit points. So that's what it is.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Ashley: I thought it was the armor class goes up one.
Sam: I got 15 extra hit points.
Matt: Yeah, Aid just gives you guys extra hit points. So anyway. 17. Doesn't hit. All right. So three more attacks. That was cocked. 19?
Laura: It's my armor class.
Matt: All right, 26?
Laura: Fuck. Balls. Shit. Mother bitch.
Matt: And that's 19 again. So four attacks hit you.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: First one is for 14 points of slashing damage.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Next one, hoo, that's eight, 12 points of slashing damage.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: Doubled. Halved.
Taliesin: Stop it! Don't be helpful!
Matt: Nine plus four-- another 13 points of slashing damage.
Laura: Dammit. Okay.
Matt: And the last one. That's going to be 15 points of slashing damage.
Laura: Great, cool, great. I'm fine and I'm just going to keep going.
Matt: You streak off as all these blades hammer into your side, cutting the bottom of your feet, one of them hits you in the back of the neck and curves across your lower back, and as you pull away clutching it, you look at your hand with the blood pooling in the middle of your palm, and you look at the gem with a faint glimmer of a form of a human inside the gem that's currently mingling with all the blood that's smeared across your body, as all of a sudden you coast around, through the air, the wind whirling past you, and you spin around towards the top of the Margrave's estate. And you can hear the blood in your body-- (heartbeat sounds)-- in your ears as you start getting a little dizzy and realizing just how rough you are at the moment from that exchange.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Wow.
Matt: Technically you'd probably be higher than this. Up there, if you wanted to fly around. Okay. So. That ends your turn?
Laura: That-- yeah.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm going to use my bonus action to dash, and hasted I get 24 squares of movement on this board.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: I'm going to drop off the roof, staying along the wall, I should be able to take a diagonal at that corner and totally avoid Greenbeard.
Matt: Oh, you mean, dodge off--?
Liam: I want to go, no, I want to go straight this way. Towards the tree, and drop.
Matt: Towards the tree, drop off here?
Liam: All right. Yep. I want to go along the wall. I can swoop around it and avoid Greenbeard, I'm going to run past this barbarian, she'll probably take an attack but I'm wearing that cloak so she's at disadvantage. I'm going to run up to Kevdak and I'm going to stab him twice-- I should get sneak attack damage and a crit, because he's frozen.
Matt: You do.
Liam: Then I'm going to run the fuck out. That's what I'd like to do.
Matt: Okay. (laughter)
Matt: You rush up, you manage to avoid Greenbeard, there is one of these guys there who was holding his place, seeing what things were going on, he had no target at the moment, was staying nearby. With disadvantage, that is 21?
Liam: Misses. 22.
Matt: 22!
Liam: Daggers out, hasted. Raven Queen armor, fuck y'all.
Matt: As you dart past, this blur of dark motion swings towards you, and where it is about to catch some of the armor, there's a burst of black feathers that lift behind where the blade struck through. As you dart up right into the face of Kevdak, who's like, (strained sound), trying desperately to resist the effect of this. Go for it. Advantage on the attacks.
Liam: Okay. Advantage on all these, right right right.
Laura: Oh my god. Ermagerd.
Liam: Ermagerd. 22 for the first, which hits. Ah, yeah, they both hit. And 26 for the second. First one. Three plus-- oh my god. Three plus-- Eight, ten, 16, 22, 23, 29, 32. Which is doubled to 64 plus six.
Matt: Well, 32 plus six, because he takes half-damage.
Liam: Right, well, let's get it up to the top and then halve it. So 32 to 64 plus six is 72 halved.
Matt: Right, 72 halved puts you at 36.
Liam: That's the first, and then the second one does two plus six is eight, no, two and, da-ba-ba-ba--
Laura: Four, right?
Liam: That's just the dice is doubled, so four, it's ten.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And I'd like to use the rest of, well, go ahead.
Matt: So yeah, so as you rush up, you slam your dagger square into the side of his body, and as you push it inside, you can see his eyes glancing back down towards you, held in place, his arm broken, still dangling from the little elements of ligaments that keep it shifting there. With the impact of the slam, it swings from the sheer force of the blow. As you push the blade to the hilt and even further in, you feel your hands actually push into the wound itself about an inch, your fingers getting dark and wet with the crimson gore of the interior of his body. As you push up inside, you pull back, pulling the blade around, in your pommel, and jam it over the top of the shoulder, into the side of his body, the muscle flexes from the tension of the Hold Person spell, managing to reduce a portion of the damage, but it left a pretty serious wound.
Liam: Any movement I have left, I want to use to run up to the other side of the wall that Keyleth is on. If I have enough, I'll climb up, if not, I'll go behind that barrel. But if I, before I go, quietly I say to Kevdak, your fate is sealed here today, my friend.
Matt: Okay. He does not get an attack of opportunity on you because he is paralyzed, and the guy already took one against you so he already used his reaction, you rush past him. You do not have enough movement to get to the top, but you do get to the corner right where the barrel is. Okay?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: That ends your turn. It's now the archers' turn.
Laura: Oh god.
Sam: Oh god. So much bloodshed.
Travis: Can we do some recreational drugs or something? Take the edge off?
Laura: We're going to, we're all going to die.
Sam: All we got to do is get Kevdak and they're fucking lost.
Taliesin: I've got a Scrooge McDuck-sized pit of Xanax at my house I'm just going to dive into.
Laura: Once we kill him, his gauntlets are going to be there, we have to go in and get his gauntlets.
Sam: Yeah, that's a point, that's a point made. You know who could get them, who's fast and strong? Trinket.
Matt: This guy here is going to go ahead, he's out of range of you, Marisha. Shoving this barrel off the side to try and get away from you.
Taliesin: Attack of opportunity.
Matt: Marisha, you do get an attack of opportunity, it does fall and hit the barrel next to you, I mean, next to Vax. It doesn't hit you, but it spooks you momentarily as it slams onto the barrel next to your side and rolls off.
Marisha: Rolling terribly.
Matt: What'd you get, Keyleth?
Marisha: Ten total.
Matt: Ten total? Misses.
Marisha: Oh no, oh, I had to roll to hit. I'm sorry, I was rolling damage.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Marisha: I didn't roll to hit. To hit, that is, plus, 16 to hit?
Matt: 16 versus the archer? 17. Just misses.
Sam: You really... blew it.
Taliesin: To be fair, she's a bit winded.
Sam: Oh, she's winded, that's nice, that's nice.
Matt: They're both, having now made out the connection between the mooning and Kevdak holding himself in place, they're both trying to take you out. One of them has disadvantage because you're in its spot and it couldn't get away from you, it had nowhere to go really. So one's taking two attacks at you, Scanlan. That is going to be, heh, a 12.
Sam: Miss.
Matt: And a 26.
Sam: Hit.
Matt: The other one's going to have two attacks with disadvantage against you. That's, even with disadvantage, that's a 21.
Sam: Hit.
Matt: And the other one with disadvantage is a 15.
Sam: Hit.
Laura: What? 15 hits you?
Sam: I am not wearing some things.
Matt: Yeah, it's true. So three attacks hit you.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: The first one is going to be, all right. That's a full ten plus-- 14 points of piercing damage.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Go ahead and roll your concentration.
Sam: Oh, yeah, that.
Matt: So roll and add two.
Sam: Roll and add two, or?
Matt: Because it's plus your constitution.
Sam: Oh. 19.
Matt: 19? Okay. The next attack deals five points. Go ahead and roll again with advantage.
Sam: 19.
Matt: Damn. All right. And the third one. Yeah, what's your constitution saving throw, it's plus two, right?
Sam: Yep.
Matt: Last one does 11 points of piercing damage to you. And make another series of checks for concentration.
Sam: 17.
Matt: Fine.
Laura: We're fine, we're okay, we're okay?
Matt: That Warcaster feat, man. Okay, that finishes those two guys. This one here's off to the side, this one's going to go ahead and turn around this way and get around the edge. Actually, he's going to--
Laura: I'm going to start crying.
Matt: This one over here didn't notice you swing by over the top, swoosh overhead. It does see Percy on the roof that shot it, you do have partial cover, so. We'll say that's half cover, so plus two to your AC against this guy's two arrow shots against you. All righty. That is 26 to hit.
Taliesin: Well, that hits.
Matt: All right. Second strike. Same thing, 26.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: 18 and 18.
Taliesin: 18 and 18? I can use the-- yeah, I only have one reaction, so. All right.
Matt: So that's nine points of piercing damage with the first shot.
Taliesin: I'll take that.
Matt: And 14 points of piercing damage with the second one.
Taliesin: I'll fight that one, I'll contest that.
Sam: This has been a long fight, guys.
Liam: No, this is like 30 seconds later, if that.
Matt: What are you contesting it with?
Taliesin: Gloves of Missile Snaring.
Matt: How many times can you use that?
Taliesin: It's a reaction. It doesn't say, I can make an attempt to catch.
Matt: Yeah. So go ahead and make the attempt.
Taliesin: That's 14 points?
Matt: 14 points, yeah.
Taliesin: Dexterity modifier, 11, so I can reduce it to three points of damage. I still got hit, so.
Matt: So go ahead and mark that. Okay. And this guy over here at the very top moves over as well and is going to go ahead and take two more shots at Scanlan. Since there's currently not a whole lot he can see in the area that's a threat to him, near this gleaming beacon of pink and purple up on the rooftop another friend of his is currently whaling on, so. Two attacks against you. That's going to be a 19.
Sam: Hit.
Matt: And 23.
Sam: Hit.
Matt: All right. You take another six points of piercing damage. Go ahead and make your--
Sam: Yeah, 20.
Matt: What was it? 20? Okay. Second one is 14 points of piercing damage.
Taliesin: Oh, Jesus.
Sam: Six.
Matt: And with that, the Hold Person fades, concentration lost from the barrage of arrows from the nearby Herd archers. You hear a roar across the battlefield, (roars). Currently with one busted arm, no arm on the other side, Kevdak is screaming in terrible pain and anger.
Liam: But he's great at riverdance. (laughter)
Matt: All right, archers finish their turn. It comes to Kevdak's turn. He's going to go ahead and use his bonus action to go ahead and use Second Wind. Heals 17 hit points on that, rolled a ten. He is then going to-- let's see. Huh.
Marisha: No one's around him.
Matt: Yeah, he has no axe. He reaches over and picks up your hammer.
Taliesin: With his broken hand?
Matt: Oh, yeah, no, actually no, he can't do that right now.
Sam: With his beak.
Laura: He kicks the hammer.
Marisha: He, yeah. He teabags it.
Travis: He kills one of his subordinates for letting him--
Matt: Yeah, he turns to one of his subordinates to the side and says, "One of you, pick that up. The rest of you, kill them." And looks over to the other two innocent that are on the ground right now. He then is going to go ahead and start moving over towards Greenbeard.
Sam: Because he moves.
Matt: Yes?
Sam: Does Pike get an attack of opportunity?
Laura: Oh, the Spiritual Weapon!
Matt: A Spiritual Weapon is technically not a creature. It doesn't get a reaction. It's only on a bonus action you get a chance to attack with it. Yeah. He's going to move over here, around the flames, up to Greenbeard. Okay. That finishes his turn, there's not much else he can do at this point. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Pike, how you doing?
Ashley: I'm at 20. I'm pretty rough. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay. I have an idea to try and get out of it if I need to.
Sam: Kevdak or Pike?
Laura: They're all clustered right there. If you have something that does area.
Sam: They are, I don't care about them, I just care about Kevdak.
Liam: End the fight, Scanlan.
Laura: Well, Greenbeard can probably heal Kevdak.
Sam: All right.
Marisha: That's probably what he's going over there for.
Sam: I don't think I'll be able to do a Fireball without hitting either Kiki or that innocent.
Marisha: I'm fine, I haven't taken any damage.
Taliesin: She's up 60 bonus hit points.
Marisha: No, I'm up 90 bonus hit points and I haven't taken any damage.
Sam: All right. I'll do the same thing, then. Shit.
Matt: What're you doing, Scanlan?
Sam: Yep. The Wand of Fireballs again.
Matt: How many--
Sam: I have seven charges, I've used three, I'll use three more.
Matt: Okay, where, in the center here at Kevdak?
Sam: Yes, Kevdak is the center square.
Matt: That would hit that archer.
Sam: Would it hit that innocent?
Matt: It would hit those innocents there, both of those innocents.
Sam: Okay. Angle it a little over towards Kiki so it doesn't hit the innocent?
Matt: Yeah, with your angle, you could angle it this way.
Sam: Oh, would it hit Vax that way?
Matt: Yeah, it would.
Liam: It's all right. Do it.
Sam: Okay, I'll kill the innocent.
Liam: Do it!
Sam: I'll kill the innocent.
Liam: I can dodge that shit! I can dodge that shit!
Laura: Scanlan! Don't hurt the innocents!
Sam: I said it already, it's too late.
Matt: Yep. So Scanlan fires the Fireball at Kevdak, it detonates.
Liam: I could've avoided it completely.
Sam: Okay. Yes. Do I just roll? 10d8.
Taliesin: 10d6.
Sam: Six. Six, yes.
Matt: Kevdak, save for that, yeah, he makes his save.
Marisha: Gah, fucking fucker.
Matt: Because it's DC 15. Greenbeard also makes his save.
Sam: 42.
Matt: 42. Damn. (counting) Ten. So Kevdak takes ten points of fire damage.
Sam: Ten? He made his save.
Matt: Because he made his save for half damage, and then he takes half that from his rage. Greenbeard takes 21. He's looking rough, Greenbeard is now burned and (grunts) is looking a bit frenzied at this point. The archer does make the save, high dex, they take 21 points on him.
Sam: (belches) Pardon me.
Matt: This archer there also makes it. However, that one's taken-- no, that one hasn't taken a lot of damage, it was that one over there. This one here does also make his save.
Sam: Ah, Jesus. These guys are unkillable.
Marisha: They all made their saves.
Laura: Surprise attack would've been really good on these guys.
Matt: That guy there does make his save, they're all rolling 15 or above on this.
Laura: God.
Matt: This guy here rolls a natural 20 on his save.
Laura: Fuck all of them!
Matt: Well, that was the innocent there.
All: Oh.
Marisha: Good job, guy.
Matt: It's still 21 points of damage for a peasant, he is incinerated and you hear the horrible scream of pain as--
Sam: Hey, we killed something, guys!
Laura: That was the first thing we killed in this fight.
Matt: First thing you killed in this fight was an innocent villager.
Laura: That is terrible.
Matt: And with that scream that echoes in the back of your mind, knowing the decision you made, a little part of your heart sinks in your chest. However, Keyleth, I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity save as well.
Marisha: Yeah. On it. Natural 19.
Matt: All right, so you take 21 points of fire damage.
Sam: Even though I can't see her--
Matt: And actually, that guy technically would be-- yeah, that innocent there would also be in range. He doesn't make his save, he is also incinerated. Both of them burn.
Marisha: Whoops.
Laura: Two peasants dead.
Sam: Sorry.
Matt: All right. So.
Sam: Even though I can't see her, I'm so connected to her, can I try to heal Pike with a big shout?
Matt: As a Healing Word spell? A creature you can see within range, so no, you have to be able to see her to aid her.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Which you could do if you wanted to risk it.
Sam: I don't know if I want to move, this guy is on me.
Taliesin: Yeah, but you're also getting pummeled by arrows.
Laura: That's true.
Taliesin: So maybe standing there is not necessarily the--
Laura: Like, up and over would probably be better.
Sam: He's going to take a whack at me.
Taliesin: He's going to take a whack at you in a minute anyway.
Liam: Can't you stay alongside him the whole time?
Laura: Yeah. If you're within five feet of him, he doesn't attack.
Liam: Just circle him.
Sam: Okay. I'll circle. I don't know, I can't even really see where I am, but. Yeah.
Liam: Just going around him. Kitty-corner.
Matt: So yeah, you get over this side here.
Liam: Oh, he's dead.
Laura: (laughs) Every time.
Matt: All right, so you move around him. And you see Pike now surrounded by a number of the barbarians.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: You can use your bonus action to heal her if you'd like.
Sam: You have some plan or something, right?
Ashley: I mean, who the fuck knows if that's going to fucking work?
Sam: My healing is barely anything. So I'll inspire you instead, I think.
Ashley: Okay. I'll take it, I'll take it.
Matt: How do you inspire her?
Sam: I sing, (singing) Well then I saw her mace, now I'm a believer, without a trace, of blood in her hair. I'm in love.
All: (singing) Ooh-ahh.
Sam: (singing) I'm a believer.
Matt: (singing) Take your d10.
Ashley: (singing) I'll take my d10, use it later.
Matt: Ends Scanlan's turn. That's the end of your turn. Grog, you are sealed. You have no turn.
Laura: Sorry, Grog. I was trying to keep you from dying.
Matt: Brings us to Greenbeard, who's in a rough place right now. Greenbeard is going to go ahead and finally do something.
Sam: God dammit, he's going to heal fucking Kevdak. It's a new round.
Matt: "Kevdak. Protect the Herd." And he reaches forward and touches him.
Ashley: Fuck that guy.
Sam: Yeah, I'll counterspell that too.
Matt: As he's right there. That's Heal.
Marisha: No, I knew it, I knew it, it's going to heal him for all of his hit points.
Sam: I'm counterspelling.
Matt: Okay, so that's a 6th-level. Go ahead and roll, add seven, and you have to get 16 or higher.
Sam: Can I cast it at a higher level?
Marisha: Heal is a 7th-level spell.
Matt: What level are you casting Counterspell at?
Sam: Do I know what this spell is?
Matt: No, Heal, 70. Old version was almost all your hit points.
Sam: Fifth level.
Matt: At fifth level? All right, so you're casting it at fifth level. Counterspell, mark that off. Less than or equal to the level of the spell slot you use. So it is fifth level, doesn't do anything. Because what fifth level does is it increases the equal level of the spell to cancel. Fifth level, it's a 6th-level spell, so now you just roll. So now roll. Add seven. You're trying to get 16 or higher.
Laura: No!
Ashley: What is it, what is it, what is it?
Sam: It was a three. But I get advantage.
Matt: No.
Sam: Because I'm wearing this.
Matt: With that, Greenbeard reaches out and touches Kevdak. Kevdak roars in pain as all of a sudden the muscles and tendons in his arm reform and in his still-wounded but now-functional arm, he crushes the gauntlet in his hand. "Bring me the other!"
Laura: Shit.
Matt: And you see the other one who was over there reach for the gauntlet.
Marisha: God dammit, I was about to handle that. I was about to handle that! Who's bringing him the gauntlet?
Matt: Greenbeard is now going to go ahead and back behind here, trying to get behind the tree as he now notices he's in the open.
Liam: Burn him up.
Matt: Done his business in that moment. No, as a bonus action, he's going to go ahead and turn into an earth elemental.
Marisha: Who is?
Laura: Greenbeard.
Marisha: Fucking druids! Fucking druids!
Ashley: Kill him! Kill him, Keyleth.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Everything just flipped.
Matt: Now. Percy, you're up.
Sam: Kill Kevdak.
Taliesin: I was going to say, I can't kill Kevdak, he just healed for--
Matt: Kevdak was on the cusp.
Ashley: But now he has 70 extra hit points.
Matt: He does.
Laura: He heals 70 extra hit points? Oh, not 70 percent of his hit points? We can still take him, we can still take him.
Taliesin: Oh, seven hit points.
All: 70.
Travis: 140. We have to hit him for 140.
Taliesin: He healed him 70 hit points. Is he still raging, though?
Matt: Yeah. He continues to rage if he's taken damage since the last round. He's taken a lot of damage.
Marisha: We've got to get those fucking gauntlets.
Laura: Don't let him get the gauntlets, Percy!
Marisha: Where's the gauntlet, can we see the gauntlet on the battlefield?
Matt: It's over here right now, it's on the ground.
Liam: He told somebody to pick it up, but they didn't do it yet.
Taliesin: Okay. No, I can't do that, can I? I look at the guy next to me, I'm going to take a look-- oh god. I'm going to take a running jump off the front of the house.
Sam: Oh my god.
Taliesin: Straight into the--
Laura: In the kill box, you're going into the kill box?
Sam: You're not fast, you're not a fast person!
Taliesin: No, I'm going to jump for the other house.
Matt: All right, go ahead and make an acrobatics check. Oh right, this is a jump, so this would be athletics.
Taliesin: Is it not an acrobatics, I can't do an acrobatics, I can't parkour this? My hands are free.
Matt: I'll say you can make an acrobatics with disadvantage or an athletics with a single roll. Since this is actually the strength of the run, it's not a big distance, so it's not a huge DC for a jump, but it's your call. What do you want to do?
Taliesin: I'll take an athletics. What do you think, athletics or? Oh, no no. I'll acrobatics it with disadvantage.
Matt: All right. Go for it.
Taliesin: Yeah, I. Yeah, no.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: I rolled a one.
Matt: You rolled a one? So, as you leap off the side, your foot hits the edge of the tile, and the blade behind you swings. Which I believe is going to hit you with a 20. Is that your AC?
Taliesin: My AC's 18.
Matt: 18, yeah. You take seven plus four, 11 points of slashing damage.
Taliesin: I'm fine with that.
Matt: The blow, however, is just enough to throw you off-kilter, and you go plummeting down into the alleyway.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Falling prone. You can use your movement to get back up, the remainder of your movement, but you can't move from there. The fall does deal an additional five points of bludgeoning damage.
Taliesin: Don't care.
Matt: All right, so you get back up-- You're now in this alleyway right here facing this line here is all you can really see from your perspective.
Taliesin: Who can I see from my perspective?
Matt: You can see Vax, you can see Kevdak, and you can see this dude here, and an archer, but has partial cover because of the--
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to, as a bonus action I'm going to do a quick heal.
Matt: Okay. Second Wind?
Taliesin: Second Wind. Just to make that go away. God, that's amazing. 18 back, so, I've got--
Matt: Second Wind, man.
Taliesin: And  ow! I'm going to pull out the big gun and I'm going to take a nice heavy serious look at Kevdak. What am I going to hit him with? I'm going to take a sharpshooter shot in his face. I'm going to go for a headshot with the big gun.
Matt: A headshot? With the big gun?
Taliesin: A headshot. With the big, with sharpshooter.
Matt: Right, so you're using the trickshot on him.
Taliesin: Trickshot on sharpshooter. I'm doing a combo. 23 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: I don't feel good.
Travis: I have the worst headache right now.
Taliesin: I feel really bad right now. I don't feel happy. All right, so that's-- first the damage.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: That's 26 points of piercing damage.
Matt: 26 points of piercing damage, reduced to half, 13.
Taliesin: Plus he has to make a constitution saving throw against a DC of 19.
Matt: Constitution, yeah, that's a 23.
Laura: Wait, what?
Marisha: He just made his constitution save.
Matt: He's got a high constitution, saving throws, it's kind of his thing.
Taliesin: Reloading, taking another shot. I don't care, I don't care.
Matt: Same thing, sharpshooter?
Taliesin: Same thing, sharpshooter, I'm going to--
Matt: Any other trickshots you're going to use, or? Deadshot, anything you want to use?
Laura: This is heroic death music right now.
Taliesin: I hate this music you're playing.
Matt: I could switch it up, if you want.
Taliesin: No no.
Liam: Benny Hill?
Taliesin: I'm going to drop a grit for advantage, because--
Matt: Okay, for deadeye shot?
Taliesin: Deadeye with sharpshooter.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's good. It can only go up from there. And we do, all right. That's 19, 26 to hit, that hits.
Matt: With the minus five?
Taliesin: Oh, yeah, no, that's with the minus five, how about that, I rolled a 19.
Matt: Yeah. Great, yeah, so go ahead and roll damage on that.
Taliesin: Asshole, asshole, that's better.
Laura: (laughs) He's saying 'asshole, asshole, asshole'.
Taliesin: That is a seven. So that's 17, 18, 19, 20. 30. 36 points of damage.
Matt: 36 halved to 18.
Taliesin: 18. And that's my two shots so I'm not reloaded.
Matt: That's your three attacks. Shot, reloaded, shot.
Taliesin: Shot, reloaded, shot. I'm now going to burn my action surge.
Matt: Okay, angry Percy's angry.
Taliesin: Can I-- I was going to say, can I burn that as a run or can I only burn that as an attack?
Matt: As part of the function, it's like-- You can use your action as a dash, so you could.
Taliesin: I'm going to use my action as a dash to, oh fuck, there's no way around, is there? Fuck it, then, I'm taking another shot.
Matt: All right, so your fourth attack is a reload, fifth is an attack. Go for it. Is this deadeye as well or just regular?
Taliesin: This is sharpshooter as well, no deadeye.
Matt: Okay, sharpshooter, go for the shot.
Taliesin: 23 to hit.
Matt: 23 hits.
Taliesin: I want to save some grit for some problems. (raspberry)
Sam: That's not bad.
Taliesin: Yeah it is.
Marisha: Wait. Did you roll that?
Taliesin: Oh fuck, yeah, thank you! That's the wrong one. Oh, that's so much better.
Matt: Hah, you rolled a 20-sider instead of a 12?
Taliesin: I can't count, my brain.
Laura: We're all breaking.
Marisha: I know, we're breaking under pressure.
Taliesin: 32 points of damage? 32 points of damage.
Matt: 16 points of piercing damage, all right.
Taliesin: And a reload.
Matt: And a reload. That's your turn. Percy is done, dealing a grand total of 47 points of damage in that round. (cheering)
Laura: That's good!
Sam: And I did ten, so we're almost back to where we were.
Marisha: Okay, angry at the fact that I'm not doing much, I'm going to slowly, for flavor, my air elemental's going to start burning a little fire, I'm going to drop my air elemental and I'm going to do Firestorm.
Matt: Okay, Ryan, I need the mini-box that was not brought.
Ashley: (singing) Mini-box.
Liam: Borrow the Thordak mini.
Laura: What if we all die and the dragons take over everything?
Liam: No. No.
Sam: You know, it's this kind of intense fun that you can get in every Loot Crate. (laughter)
Matt: Dammit, Sam.
Sam: Every month, you'll be on pins and needles to see what's in this box.
Matt: All right, for the time being, I'll use this one here. All right, so Keyleth, you revert back.
Marisha: I revert back.
Matt: We'll use this barmaid for the time being.
Laura: You're a barmaid.
Marisha: Aw, I've been demoted.
Liam: Beers for everybody.
Taliesin: We were at the Ren Faire, to be fair.
Marisha: This is alternate timeline version.
Matt: All right, so, Keyleth, what are you doing? You dropped form.
Marisha: I drop form and I'm going to Firestorm all up in this bitch.
Matt: Oh, shit. All right. What are you firestorming, where, what are you doing?
Marisha: Seventh level, so it's ten ten-square-feet. So let's do like--
Matt: Ten ten-foot cubes.
Marisha: Ten ten-foot cubes.
Sam: Jesus. Well see, those peasants would've died anyway, it's not me, it's her, she did it.
Marisha: I could've gone around them.
Matt: So how do you want to arrange this here?
Marisha: So let's start, can I do ten including this archer, ten?
Matt: You can do there, which would burst off the corner, it would hit Kevdak, the archer, and Greenbeard.
Liam: Set that tree on fire.
Marisha: Actually, as part of the spell I can choose to not set the tree on fire. So I choose to spare the tree.
Matt: All right, the tree is spared.
Marisha: All plant life is spared.
Taliesin: Vegan. Sorry.
Marisha: I am not a vegan. From there-- is that a guy, who's that, who's that?
Sam: They're all baddies.
Laura: Everything's bad unless they've got a red ring around them.
Ashley: Kill 'em, baby, kill 'em.
Liam: C'mon, Red!
Laura: C'mon, Kiki!
Ashley: C'mon, Kiki!
Marisha: Another one there.
Matt: Okay, so we have there. There. You'd be able to get one that wouldn't actually hit any of them.
Marisha: That's fine, and then that one. Bam. And then let's go. Can I go four, and then--
Matt: Six, seven, and that's about all you can get.
Marisha: And that got all of these guys? And then can I go eight, nine, get this guy--
Matt: Eight, nine, ten, it wouldn't be able to get that far over. I mean, you could-- (counting).
Marisha: And get all of 'em?
Matt: You could probably get this section there, yeah. Because they're all pretty clustered, just barely.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: And you're doing an "S", which is cool.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage on that, Keyleth.
Marisha: Zorro!
Laura: Sorro!
Marisha: Okay, ten-- Sorro! Sorry.
Laura: What are you rolling, what is the damage?
Marisha: 10d10. Or no, sorry, sorry. 7d10. Wait. Let me double-check. Let me double-check what it is.
Laura: That's a lot. All tens.
Matt: I'd say you'd be able to get this guy, this guy you wouldn't be able to, but all the rest of these you could. As long as you get over there.
Marisha: 7d10. Okay. 7d10.
Matt: 7d10. Dexterity saving throws, correct, against your spell DC?
Marisha: Uh-huh, which my spell DC is 19. Eight.
Sam: Oh, some of those are good.
Marisha: Some of those are good. Plus six, so that's 14, 16, 18, 19. Another nine, around another-- 29.
Matt: 29 total points of fire damage?
Marisha: 29 total points of fire damage.
Matt: Hm. Okay. Kevdak takes-- he failed his save, but he takes half that, so 14 points of fire damage.
Sam: He's back to where he was before the Heal.
Matt: Yep. Greenbeard takes the full. 29.
Laura: But now he's a tank. Greenbeard's an earth elemental.
Matt: Yeah, Greenbeard's taking earth elemental damage now. That archer, that archer burns up, archer screams in pain as it incinerates from the Firestorm.
Sam: Wait, somebody died?
Laura: An archer died!
Sam: Oh, thank god.
Matt: That bladestorm there takes 29 damage. That guy there, they all take 29 damage. That druid fails.
Taliesin: Are they on fire now too?
Laura: They're all burning to death slowly.
Matt: 29 damage there. That druid and the rest of them, fail, success, fail with a one, fail. Fail with another one. Okay, so 29, all righty.
Liam: While the entire square sets on fire, Vax quietly and quickly falls a little deeper.
Ashley: Falls a little deeper in what?
Liam: In love.
Laura: Oh. Aww!
Ashley: Oh. Aww!
Matt: All right, cool. All righty.
Marisha: I light Vax's fire in the meantime.
Matt: So. That finishes your turn with a Firestorm?
Marisha: No it does not, I'm going to use a bonus action to do Grasping Vine.
Matt: Too high-level, you can't do it, Grasping Vine's a 4th-level spell. You can only do up to a second level as a bonus.
Sam: Can you use your bonus action to heal?
Marisha: I could do a bonus action to heal somebody. Who's down really bad, can I see Pike?
Matt: You can't see Pike right now, Pike is out of the room.
Laura: Can you see me up in the air?
Marisha: Are you rough? Have you taken some damage?
Laura: Can you see me in the air?
Marisha: Can I see Vex flying off into the distance?
Matt: Currently, roll a perception check.
Marisha: Not great, 14.
Matt: Nope. You do not see Vex, you have no idea where she is right now, you just saw her.
Marisha: I see, I can't hurt him anymore, I see Scanlan, that's all I can really see?
Matt: Scanlan you can see over there, but even then he's too far away for a Healing Word, I think.
Marisha: That's it, that's my turn.
Sam: Well, kill Kevdak, then.
Matt: Pike, you're up.
Ashley: All right, so I'm going to look at the three around me, one of them fell off the roof, so there's only three there, right?
Matt: Correct, there are three, ah. There are five there total, actually.
Ashley: Well, one of them fell the roof.
Liam: You accidentally knocked one off the roof, Matt, five minutes ago.
Matt: That's good to know.
Ashley: There's how many there?
Matt: There's four of them there.
Liam: He's drunk, fell asleep.
Matt: No, it's fine.
Ashley: I'm going to tell them.
Laura: I'm a barbarian.
Ashley: I'm a barbarian.
Matt: There we go. That'll work.
Ashley: I'm going to look at them and I am going to Command all four of them to attack each other. At fourth level.
Liam: And they're all by their allies so they should get advantage on each other.
Matt: Well, technically it doesn't work that way. All right. All right, so. What's the DC on that?
Matt: Spell DC.
Sam: Spell DC.
Ashley: 16.
Matt: That's a failure. That's a failure. That's a 20, so that succeeds. That's a failure. So one of them succeeded, three of them didn't.
Travis: What a call. What. A. Call.
Ashley: Well, hopefully, hopefully.
Matt: So. Does that end your turn?
Ashley: No.
Matt: Your bonus action still, what are you going to do?
Sam: Heal thyself!
Matt: You do still have Spiritual Weapon up if you want to use your bonus action to do that.
Ashley: I'm going to use my Spiritual Weapon.
Matt: The Spiritual Weapon can only move 20 feet.
Ashley: Say again?
Matt: It can only move 20 feet as a bonus action.
Sam: Oh, so it can only catch up to him.
Liam: Diagonally. Right on his ass. Yeah!
Taliesin: It flies over objects, too.
Matt: But you can't see him right now, you'd have to move over to have him in view.
Laura: And one of them would get an opportunity now because--
Matt: One of them would, if you were to try and dodge past, yeah. What do you want to do?
Ashley: I have to move anyway.
Matt: It's up to you. What do you want to do?
Ashley: I'm going to try to-- yeah.
Matt: Go ahead and make an acrobatics check as you try to tumble in your armor between the legs of one of the guys in front of you.
Sam: Tumbling!
Laura: You can do it, Pike!
Ashley: I have inspiration?
Sam: Oh, you do have inspiration! And you'll need it, it looks like.
Matt: Whatever your acrobatics is.
Sam: With advantage. With triple disadvantage.
Matt: What is it?
Ashley: 14?
Matt: 14. Let me double-check here real fast.
Sam: Oh, he's going to the book for this. For a somersault!
Taliesin: And isn't this guy technically flanked by enemies now?
Ashley: I mean, I'm not going to somersault, I'm going to sneak around.
Liam: Can't she run under his balls and--
Sam: It's okay, let the DM DM.
Matt: Let me deal with it, guys. You don't want to prod me right now.
Sam: Chapter three  Somersaults.
Taliesin: All that I have and more.
Liam: Matt, you do amazing, every week you do amazing and we're all going to die.
Matt: Let's see the roll there. All right, so you manage to barely push past, but you do trigger a second attack of opportunity to do so. From that guy, that big half-orc there that gets in your way. So that's two strikes against you, that is a natural 20. And that's going to be a 13.
Ashley: Okay, well that misses.
Matt: So that is a pretty low roll, ten points of slashing damage.
Ashley: I'm alive, I'm alive.
Matt: What are you at? What're you at?
Ashley: I am at 15.
Matt: So as you dodge past, get slammed by two blades, you arc around the corner and they're all looking at each other, confused, some of them affected by this magic they aren't expecting, and you rush around and you see in the distance Kevdak, who's now getting shot a couple times, gets set on fire, flames burst up, and he starts screaming out in pain. As you turn the corner, you look over at your Spiritual Weapon, and you can nudge it forward. Right there, its full movement, 20 feet. Go ahead and make an attack with your spell attack modifier. Does not have advantage because he is no longer paralyzed.
Ashley: 20.
Matt: 20 hits. Go ahead and roll damage. So 4d8 plus four.
Sam: Oh wow, that's good.
Taliesin: Oh no, it doesn't fuck around.
Matt: Still halved, but.
Liam: Yeah well. C'mon Sarenrae.
Ashley: Okay. Plus what?
Matt: Plus four.
Ashley: All right, 24.
Matt: 24 halved, to 12.
Ashley: Fuck!
Travis: I know, I forget about it too.
Matt: Yeah, I know.
Travis: I forget about it too.
Taliesin: This is how we all feel watching you fight, by the way.
Matt: So the blade drifts over and in a giant arc swings down with a resounding shining metallic slam. The blade streaks through and cuts this swath, the blade doesn't stop, it passes through and leaves this scar across his body of burned radiant energy. (grunt of pain) Looks over and glares at you from across the open cobblestone of this marketplace, and you see for a second that look that Grog saw that caused him to drop his weapon, you suddenly feel this quake in your soul. This is a powerful entity whose hatred is now bent on you.
Ashley: I can still move a little bit more, right? Because that was only--
Matt: You can if you'd like to. You may take more attacks of opportunity, though.
Laura: What, why?
Matt: In order for her to move further, you might move out of combat with the other guys that are there.
Liam: But they're all attacking each other.
Matt: The Command move means on their next turn they attack each other. Doesn't mean that they're charmed or dominated.
Ashley: But how many feet did I move, how many feet am I able to move anyway?
Matt: That would've been ten feet, you can move 15 more.
Ashley: Okay, I can move 15 more anyway.
Matt: Yeah. But you will take two attacks of opportunity if you move out of range of these two.
Ashley: But wouldn't that be included in the attacks that I just took? If I can move 15 total?
Matt: You can move 25 total because of your tiny feet. You moved ten, you have 15 more feet you can move.
Marisha: Your tiny feet.
Ashley: Should I stay? I'll just stay.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: You need to heal yourself, dude.
Ashley: I know, I know, I know.
Matt: Barbarians are going now. This one picks up the gauntlet and is going to rush over.
Marisha: Fuck!
Matt: And bring it to Kevdak, and he's going to go ahead and hold it there, as Kevdak takes his arm and--
Marisha: Is the arm still in it?
Matt: The arm is still in it, yeah. And he looks at it and takes it with his free hand and clutches it to his chest. And looks around at the other ones, says, "We're going." And he--
Taliesin: Wait, was he holding a weapon?
Matt: Yes, he has no weapons, his weapon was pulled away from him.
Taliesin: I thought someone brought him his weapon.
Matt: Oh, brought the hammer, he brings up the hammer as well, but he doesn't--
Taliesin: But I thought he was hold--I'm trying, yeah, no, I'm desperately trying to give a reason why this couldn't work.
Matt: No, he has no weapon on him currently. He tried to reach for it, but he had no functioning arm at the time. He told someone to pick it up, so someone has your flaming warhammer. These guys here are going to move over here. Move over here. And that one's going to be attacking Pike. Over here, that's two attacks on Pike. That's going to be a 13? And a 14. Rolled really low on that one.
Taliesin: Praise Sarenrae, praise Sarenrae.
Matt: You hear the growl behind you, and without even turning your head, you slam your shield up and deflect one of the blows. Look over your shoulder and glare at it as another one comes down, and this-- you take your mace and swing it in a wide arc over and slam their blade against the stone wall of the side, deflecting the entire attack. As that's happening, both of those guys go forward. Two and a one. Goes up against one of the peasants and strikes and the peasant ducks out of the way and manages to avoid the attacks.
Laura: That's good, that's good.
Matt: This guy here with the giant club goes down and dodges one of the attacks, the other one does come down at 11, yeah, this peasant gets smashed.
Laura: Oh no, was that the little kid?
Matt: No, this was the drunker guy.
Ashley: Well, he didn't feel it.
Taliesin: Died happy.
Matt: All right. That ends their turn, it's the druids' turn now.
Laura: There's so many. They all get to go.
Sam: That's how they all feel when we attack.
Matt: This druid here is going to move forward, seeing you over there, Vax. Reaches out towards you as it only has its 4th-level spells and lower left, because of you, you Counterspell motherfucker. It's going to go ahead and cast Blight on you, Liam. I'm going to need you to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw, as the druid reaches out at you with its hand and says, "Kevdak! Inside!" and concentrates, gripping out. This female goliath, you can see with these thick braids in the back of her head, pulled into a very, very tight braid down to the lower part of her back, reaches out and grasps. You feel the blood begin to pool in parts of your body and your veins turn dark around.
Liam: Now, constitution save, right?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: This is real bad. What is that? That's eight.
Sam: Eight total?
Matt: Total. All right.
Liam: I'm Kate Moss, man.
Taliesin: Don't make that face.
Matt: You take 41 points of necrotic damage.
Marisha: Wow.
Matt: As you feel the energy pulse through your entire body and it's like all the blood in your body momentarily becomes toxic. Your vision blurs and you feel the dizziness hit you and you almost stumble to one knee but you catch yourself against the wall.
Liam: It just halved me.
Matt: That ends the druids' turn. Now the blademongers are going to go. All right. These guys are all going to attack each other.
All: Yeah!
Matt: Except for that one.
Taliesin: Are they not going to attack him as well?
Matt: Well, one of them's going to go ahead and attack Pike, because it was the one that wasn't affected by the Command spell. That's going to be a 19. No? Okay!
Ashley: Just misses.
Matt: And a 13. No. Cannot hit this armored little gnome, who's pushed against the wall, and you're deflecting blows and taking hits against the armor that are denting the front of it, and you're grinning and bearing it.
Ashley: I'm growling! Arrr!
Travis: Arr!
Ashley: Arr!
Matt: These guys are attacking each other now. That is seven-- it hits. They can't hit you but they can hit each other. Two attacks against that guy, and then the other guy. Both hit. So the first guy takes 14. 24 points of damage.
Sam: Are you okay?
Ashley: 15.
Sam: Do you want us to do something?
Ashley: I can. I'm like--
Marisha: Just focus on the mission.
Ashley: Focus on the mission at hand.
Matt: Ends up-- That guy there then also takes 22 points of damage on them. Okay. They start hacking into each other with their blades suddenly, trying to figure out what's happening. And technically another barbarian strikes, so the third one who actually missed you? That would've been an attack against its own guy, because that was the one that didn't hit, so he would've been-- Once again against this guy. So he deals an additional 13 points of damage against one of the other ones. Okay. Got you. So that finishes their turn there. So these guys here are going to move around the fire, this guy's going to move up here.
Liam: Everyone's at disadvantage with me, just a reminder.
Matt: Yeah. This guy here is going to go ahead and move one, two, three. And then using Greenbeard, who reaches out and grabs him with his elemental arm and alley-oops him up onto the roof. With the acrobatics roll. Rolls a one.
Ashley: He dies!
Matt: This guy gets slammed into the side and falls back to the ground, missing his turn.
Laura: Falls right back down like some other loser that I know of.
Matt: Yeah, (laughs). Greenbeard miscalculates and actually slams him against the wall. And then the goliath sort of slides down. Takes four points of bludgeoning damage from that. (laughter)
Matt: All righty. And that guy there is going to go ahead and strike at the child.
Laura: No!
Matt: A three. And 14.
Marisha: Shifty kid, c'mon.
Sam: He's a little weasel, he's a little weasel.
Matt: No, he's going to hit the kid.
Laura: He's a scrapper, he's dodgy. No!
Matt: Kid gets cleaved.
Laura: We didn't save anybody and we killed ourselves.
Ashley: If we kill everybody, maybe I can raise him.
Matt: They're now trying to find a way to draw you out. They're taking turns doing this, keeping, as each person they strike down they look about the rooftops again for more of you. That's going to go ahead, and these guys here are going to go ahead and start swarming over towards the front. This guy here (counting) can't quite get to you, Vax. This guy here, seeing Percy jump down, is going to go ahead and jump down to meet you from behind. See if he makes his. He fails on a two. He falls prone. Takes--
Liam: "I'm coming. Whoa!"
Matt: He takes 12 points of falling damage
Liam: "Ah, help."
Matt: However, he does use the rest of his movement to stand back up and is going to take two swings at you, Percy. That's going to be a 23 to hit?
Taliesin: I'm going to pull my magic shield, actually, I would have to have a 24 AC for that not to hit.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, I'm--
Matt: Okay. Second one's a natural 20. So the first strike hits you for 12 points of slashing damage. Second strike, double ones on the crit, so that's four, eight points of slashing damage with the second hit. (laughs) I rolled double ones on his crit, that's really frustrating. You're fine with that. All right, that ends their turn, top of the round, Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: As you're standing there now, bleeding profusely, holding the necklace that holds Grog, what are you doing?
Laura: I'm going to fly over right above Kevdak.
Travis: How high?
Laura: Like a good 50 feet.
Matt: Yeah, that's 50. All right.
Laura: All right. I'm going to Pokeball Grog right out so he can attack straight out of the gate. Just like I would Cannonball Trinket.
Travis: And I am willing.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Aren't you at death's door?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: I'll say essentially because you held your action last turn, if you wanted to go ahead and take your action to do a drop attack on this point here.
Laura: Can this be my bonus, so I'm dropping him out is the bonus, and then I still can attack? I mean, it's only a locket. It's not like it's a whole move.
Matt: Yeah, I'd say it's your bonus action to do it, yeah.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So, Grog, you were released, falling down to land on top of Kevdak with the bloodaxe in a downward arc.
Travis: And a big windup as we're coming down.
Matt: Go ahead and roll an attack.
Travis: Any chance I can make this reckless?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: No! Then they all get advantages against you again.
Matt: Up to you.
Travis: Oh, thank god for that. Natural. 20. Look at it. The first one was a one.
Ashley: Fuck you!
Matt: Ones and twenties, man, you got to stop this. And that's why he did reckless. (screaming and cheering)
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll damage on this.
Ashley: Get 'im, Grog.
Laura: Does that mean he gets the three 12s again?
Matt: With the Brutal Critical at this level, how many extra dice is it for you?
Travis: Brutal Critical is one additional damage die during critical hits.
Matt: But then that's gone up since you leveled previously.
Travis: That's true.
Matt: So you are now at, I believe-- so Brutal Critical, yeah, 13 increases to two. So you roll an additional 2d12 on the attack. So roll 1d12 plus, you're not raging anymore, because you spent the last round.
Travis: That's right, that's three.
Matt: All right, so plus three.
Travis: So ten.
Matt: Ten. Plus two more d12s.
Travis: 12. So that's 22. And a ten. For a 32.
Laura: And then double that? His crits don't get double?
Matt: You only double the first roll.
Travis: Yeah, double the first, right. Which was ten, so 20, so 42.
Matt: 42, brings it to 21 damage. How do you want to do this? (screaming and cheering)
Marisha: It worked!
Liam: Poetic justice!
Matt: As the shadow fires from the necklace as she holds it aloft, bleeding and shaking, you appear, and dive down in silence. The square coming towards you, as Kevdak, clutching in the one nearly ruined arm, the other arm that you bisected, is turning the corner, about to open the door to dive into the house to avoid it, looks up just in time to see you streaking down. What do you do?
Travis: I say  For Strongjaw! And I sink the axe right into his neck and part him perfectly down the middle.
Matt: With the sheer force of the blow, the weight behind it, and the intent, the axe hits him right in the side of the neck, cleaves off part of his ear, shaves off part of his skin here, exposing the jawbone, hits here, breaks the clavicle, tears through, and every single rib is destroyed. It cuts right through the center of this giant body until it gets to about the midsection where it catches, finally. The upper torso splits open and covers you with gore, however, you still impact, not raging.
Travis: Yep. Nope.
Matt: You take--
Sam: He's going to die.
Travis: Don't care.
Matt: 25 points of fall damage from the impact.
Travis: That will put me unconscious and 21 points under.
Matt: And 21 points under. You have that barbarian ability-- Would that be part of this?
Travis: I have Relentless Rage.
Matt: If you drop to zero hit points while raging, you're not raging. So yeah. As you shout, the blow, in a very Superman-versus-Doomsday way, cleaves him in half, and as you slam into the ground, you pull the axe free as your shattered legbones give under and you fall to the ground. You smile as you see his form crumple, and then you (impact) face-first into the ground before him.
Laura: Who's next? Oh, I'm still going. It's still my turn!
Matt: It's still your turn. You watch as every single Herd member in the entire open square gasps at this whole sight. They all turn hearing you scream "For Strongjaw" and see this happen. As Kevdak's body slumps to the ground, it shrinks back down to its average size, and you crumple to the ground, smiling, and fall next to him. And everyone takes a moment of breathless silence. What are you doing, Vex?
Laura: Oh my god.
Sam: Wait, are you dead, Grog?
Laura: He's unconscious.
Liam: He's unconscious.
Laura: I mean, my only option to heal him is to land and touch him.
Sam: He's surrounded by baddies.
Laura: Well. Fuck it, I'm going to land and touch Grog.
Matt: Okay. What's the speed of the broom?
Laura: I don't know.
Matt: It should say on the broom how fast you can move on it.
Laura: Do I have that somewhere?
Sam: You know, in your broom chapter.
Matt: Here we go, I'll find it for you.
Laura: Oh wait, wait.
Matt: Just a moment, guys. Broom of Flying. Speed of 50 feet. So you moved from over here, which would have put you-- it's about 50 to get there. So you could use your action to dash with it, you'd land, that's all you could do.
Laura: I couldn't do anything else? Okay. Then I guess I'm going to stay where I am and-- Jeez. Can I hold my action? I'm going to hold my action until--
Matt: Yeah, it's an action to feed a potion to anyone.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: What are you going to do, Vex? Hurry up.
Laura: I'm going to hold my action until Grog is healed.
Matt: Okay. Okay.
Laura: And I-- can I shout anything?
Matt: If you want to.
Laura: I'm going to shout, witness Grog Strongjaw, and bend the knee!
Ashley: It's great, it's great, it's great.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Laura: Natural 20! (yelling and cheering)
Matt: Don't hit the table, I was going to go inspect it.
Laura: No, I hit, I hit, but it was, it was a 20, I swear.
Matt: No, I trust you guys. I trust you guys.
Sam: It's all ones and twenties. We have these two-sided dice. Just a one and a 20.
Matt: This is going to be an interesting night to explain to the internet, guys. All right.
Liam: You opened it up to the dice, and the dice decided.
Ashley: We witnessed, we witnessed.
Matt: Okay. So. At this point in time, you watch as Greenbeard's form shrinks down and shifts back into his goliath form, still busted, he's looking down at the destroyed, crumpled body of Kevdak, and you there on the ground as well, looking up at you above and hovering. He looks over at the other goliaths nearby here that are rushing in, and they all step out and backwards, inspecting this body. There's a pause, a moment of pause. But they've all paid attention to what you said. That ends your turn. It is now the archers' turn.
Liam: Not me right after Vex?
Matt: I'm sorry, you're up next.
Liam: Yeah. I'm going to use disengage to back a little bit away from them, I'm going to scrabble up the wall-- where's the light, no-- I want to go up by Keyleth.
Travis: You're pointing at the screen.
Matt: So you move around.
Liam: I'm not the first one to do that. And pass her, I want to jump down and land in front of Grog.
Matt: Okay. So you run past there?
Liam: And jump in front of him, between him and-- not Greenbeard, between Grog and everyone over there.
Matt: Okay, so you'd be leaping, technically onto the body of Kevdak is what you'd be doing.
Liam: That's fine.
Marisha: Squish.
Matt: So you land onto Kevdak's form, very angry slash, I'll say for the purposes of this you're there, because Kevdak's body is way too big right now to put on the field.
Laura: But we are so going to loot that.
Marisha: So going to loot that shit.
Matt: All right, you land.
Laura: If we survive this.
Matt: With your hasted movement, make an acrobatics check for the jump.
Liam: That's fine. 25.
Matt: Yeah, you scale up, run, leap, land there, feet sinking into the body.
Liam: And I land on him and I say, Kevdak has fallen. Will you let Strongjaw rise? And I hold my action to attack if they come at me.
Matt: Okay. It's the archers' turn. This archer has its arrow trained on you and is going to hold its action. This archer here is going to move up to see what's happened, dashing to look out and see what happened, doesn't get its turn. This archer here, who's now moved, moves over to this side with its arrow trained on you as well. It's also going to hold its action. And they're all looking at each other at this Mexican standoff moment where they're all poised and ready. Everyone's holding their actions right now. It would be Kevdak's turn, Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'm pretty far. I'm going to jump down off the roof and move towards Grog.
Matt: Okay, so you run down. Okay. The guy who was up against you has looked over and is not paying attention at this moment. Make a stealth check.
Sam: Oh. Stealth check. 13.
Matt: 13. As you rush down the thing, he looks over, looks at you and goes, "Hey. Hey!" And can't even catch you, you're too fast. Make an acrobatics check as you leap off the roof.
Sam: 19.
Matt: 19. You gnomish three-point-land in this square. You're right next to Pike now, you've landed next to her. As you're around the corner now, you see Scanlan (impact) right next to you.
Ashley: Hi!
Matt: You've got about 15 more feet you can move if you wanted to.
Sam: Move 15 feet? Okay. I will, can I, I can't take her hand and walk too, she can't move right now.
Matt: No, not at the moment.
Sam: Okay, well I'm going to continue to walk.
Matt: I mean, I could say if you wanted to, you could move half your movement and take her with you.
Sam: Okay, I'll do that. I'll take her with me.
Matt: Okay, you take her hand.
Sam: I'm going to use Healing Word, oh shit, what just happened?
Matt: You and Pike move there, holding each other's hand.
Sam: Okay. I'm going to use Healing Word on Grog, and I'm just going to start chanting, Strongjaw! Strongjaw! Strongjaw!
All: Strongjaw! Strongjaw! Strongjaw! Strongjaw!
Sam: Communicate that as a Healing Word.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll the heal on that. I also want you to go ahead and make a persuasion check.
Sam: Me?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Heal is eight points. What's that do?
Matt: So you go to zero, and then eight.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: And then persuasion check?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Well, I mean, come on.
Taliesin: I know.
Sam: That's 23.
Matt: Okay. Good to know. Finishes your turn, Scanlan--?
Sam: No, I have an action still.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Sam: So I will cast Bigby's Hand and lift Grog up 30 feet like a fucking god. (laughter)
Sam: If he's willing.
Matt: I will say for the purposes of this, because I want to do this, this is ridiculous.
Sam: Oh, I had to cast that at level six, by the way.
Liam: Is it full palm-up, or is it Barcalounger style?
Marisha: Is it like a chair?
Sam: You know what, because he's the god and the hand is subservient, it's the back of the hand like this. It's a dainty lift. (laughter)
Matt: I will say Grog is now currently being held aloft right there.
Marisha: Nice!
Matt: As the hand is clutching Grog Strongjaw, lifting him up into the air, you're conscious now as the hand's holding you on its back and you get up from one knee. Grog, it's your turn.
Liam: Pinkie's up?
Sam: Pinkie's up. Tea-time.
Travis: My herd. Hear me. Fallen is your mighty leader Kevdak, the very goliath swine who would have domesticated you like a common household cat, who would have made you bend a knee to a mere dragon. I show you this. And I reach into the Bag of Holding and I pull out one of the dragon's teeth that is still in there and I toss it into the middle of the square.
Matt: Clatters to the ground at the feet of one of the nearby bladestorms. It stops at his foot. He looks at it, picks it up.
Travis: I would tell you that under the correct rule, and a return of power to this Herd, dragons would bend a knee to the Herd of the Storm. Where is Zanror?
Matt: They all look at each other and Greenbeard hobbles out, still wounded and hurt, into the center of this area.
Sam: Does he have an actual name or is that just his name?
Matt: Greenbeard's his name.
Sam: Oh, great.
Matt: Steps out into the middle, looking up at you. "Strongjaw. You stand above us all. In a way." (laughter)
Matt: "Claiming dominion over a herd that you fell to and left behind for years. Though you struck down Kevdak, what do you think makes you aligned with the interests of our people?"
Travis: Oh, you mistake me, Seer of the Herd. I do not mean to lead this herd, but rather to empower you to more powerful game. I'm here to inspire your aspirations. Never would I ask you to bend the knee. Only would I ask you to live and fight and perhaps die in the most beautiful death you can possibly attain. Join me and my fellows. Come to our aid when I call. And with that, we will chase down dragons, gods, and more.
Matt: Make a persuasion check with advantage.
Laura: Come on, come on, come on.
Matt: With advantage on that.
Travis: Fuck. That's only an 11.
Ashley: Can I use War God's Blessing, or?
Matt: I don't think it works for abilities.
Marisha: Can I assist him with a skywrite 'Strongjaw'?
Matt: (laughs) Bing! Strongjaw.
Marisha: I mean a stormcloud above him?
Ashley: Inspo, inspo, inspiration from anywhere?
Matt: It's a little late for that. It's okay. At this point Greenbeard sizes you up from a distance. Everyone else is waiting for a word, you can see everyone is hand on the side of their weapons looking at each other and there's this extremely tense air. Greenbeard turns around and looks to two of the individuals near the front of the building and goes, "Bring out Zanror." And the two of them go inside the door and close it behind them. They step inside the building and there's this long silence. You wait for 30 seconds.
Laura: Can I take a healing potion while they're inside? I'm up on the thing.
Matt: You can, yes.
Ashley: Can I heal Grog?
Matt: Are you going to step up?
Ashley: I can see him.
Matt: You can see him, yeah.
Ashley: So I'm going to cast Heal on him.
Matt: You're going to cast Heal?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: As you begin to go for your holy symbol, you can see two of the warriors behind you twitch for their weapons.
Travis: Hold! It is not necessary. Brothers, look me in the eye. Has the taste of food lost its appeal? Has the zest for life fallen from your hearts? Living in this domesticated dwelling. I promise you this: hear me, and I promise you adventures and glory that is worthy of this herd.
Matt: The door slams open from the front of the Margrave's home. You see as the two individuals come out with chains over their shoulders as they drag out into the center two individuals. You see another half-giant goliath man, one that you've all seen once before on your way to Kraghammer months and months ago. Well. Yeah, about. You see him swollen in the face, bruised, and in shackles, dragged out and thrown to the ground. And the other one holds over his shoulder another chain. He pulls out behind him a half-giant woman with the hair on the sides of her head shaved, one single long mane of hair, and it looks like she's with child. Also in shackles. And she's pushed to the ground with Zanror. Zanror looks up and you can see him closing his eyes like the daylight itself is very bright and he probably hasn't seen light in a period of time. "Strongjaw."
Travis: Cousin.
Matt: "Well. This is a surprise."
Travis: Your face seems a little different.
Matt: It's at this moment that he looks over and glances, and can see the body of Kevdak on the ground for the first time, and then he goes, "You did this?"
Travis: Scanlan. Lower me down.
Sam: I swoop him down. Do you want to be on the ground or just above it?
Travis: On the ground.
Sam: On the ground. But I release him and I make a fist that clenches right next to him. Just in case anything goes bad.
Matt: So. As you're brought down to the ground, Bigby's Hand sets you gently on the cobblestone.
Travis: I take a few steps forward. Yes. This my work. A debt fulfilled after many, many years.
Matt: (sighs) "I fear the Herd's lost its edge. Priorities. My father had grown docile in this place. But he wouldn't be if whispers hadn't found his ears." And he looks over at Greenbeard. Greenbeard immediately steps back and goes, "Look at him in shackles. This isn't a warrior, this is a slave. Both of 'em." Spits in their direction.
Travis: Strange. I would ask, why is he in shackles? What did Zanror do that would draw this sort of ire from the Herd?
Matt: The one that's holding the chains on Zanror pulls them a little tighter and Zanror's lifted up a little bit off of his leaning-forward position, he's now on his knees and his arms are pulled up, in towards his torso. And Greenbeard looks back towards you. "This skyshield here spoke against his father. He was attempting some sort of a mutiny. But we quelled that right quick. Gave him time to think about it. His father was deciding what to do with this traitor. And his next of kin. You, however, seemingly stopped his trial, so I think it's only fitting that you do the honors of finishing the job." And you can see as you were lifted off the ground and everything, you did not have your weapon with you, as you were on the ground, lifted up. Greenbeard steps over and takes the bloodaxe from the ground, walks up to you, and hands it out, and looks over to Zanror.
Travis: I am sorry, Zanror. But I will make it a glorious death. Bring me the gauntlets as well.
Matt: "Let it be." And two of the other individuals, one of the half-orc individuals looks over, hushed, and starts backing away from this, this is too much for him. There's now this tribal tension, this cultural tension that only exists within the initial Herd and has been only recently adopted by the Rivermaw that were absorbed by the Herd and are still confused by this. Two of the goliaths step over and pull and pry out the somewhat soggy leftover arm of Kevdak.
Laura: Kind of like when you're eating lobster, to get the claw out, yeah.
Liam: Shrinks as it leaves.
Matt: They toss it to the ground before you.
Travis: I stand. Put on the gauntlets.
Matt: Kevdak at this point is still being held up by the chains and says--
Travis: Zanror.
Matt: Sorry, Zanror. Thank you. "It was unbefitting of us all to be living under one of those beasts. Under my rule, we were going to take back our power as a people."
Travis: Quiet yourself. I've heard enough. And I lift the bloodaxe and I say: you are a disgrace to this herd and I will return this herd to power. And I pivot, and I drive the bloodaxe into Greenbeard.
Matt: Oh shit! Roll an attack.
Taliesin: Yeah you do, buddy.
Travis: Reckless?
Matt: If you want to.
Laura: No!
Ashley: Get the fuck out!
Laura: It's a fucking natural 20.
Matt: Roll damage.
Sam: We're going to have to get these dice calibrated later.
Laura: But why does it only happen when it's a story element?
Travis: That's an 11.
Matt: Watch as next week Critical Role implements dice cam. (laughter)
Matt: No, that's awesome.
Laura: Oh, let me take a picture, I'll take a picture.
Travis: So that's 15.
Matt: All right.
Travis: And then two more?
Matt: Two more, yeah.
Taliesin: Watch next week as we fail to open the door to his house for an hour and a half.
Marisha: Yeah, yes, can't roll above a five next week.
Travis: That's 27. 37.
Matt: How do you want to do this?
Sam: Oh, you got it?
Matt: (laughs) He had taken a shit-ton of damage in the battle, and was already moving by--
Taliesin: Yeah, he was pretty low.
Matt: He had like 12 more hit points left, so.
Travis: It seems all the poison came from his head, so I'll remove that from his body.
Matt: And with that moment, (swishing), with a very slick snapping sound, the blade coasts through and the neck retreats as the head continues forward and tumbles to the feet as Greenbeard's body takes an instinctual step backward and then falls, lifeless, in the center of the marketplace. All the rest of the Herd moves for a second, nervously.
Travis: I spin and I say  do you see? Do you see what staying in one place does? This is what weakness looks like. I would return you to the wild. I would return you to power. But you will have to do it under this goliath's rule. Unchain Zanror.
Sam: I point Bigby's Hand like he was too. (laughter)
Matt: As Bigby's hand points to Zanror, the two that are holding the chains move up and begin to unchain them both, taking the shackles off his hands and the female goliath at his side. Eventually he stands up, reaches over and puts his arm around her and says, "I am sorry, Worra."
Travis: Worra.
Matt: Worra. She stands and goes, "Do not be sorry. It seems we've been delivered from our judgment." She looks up towards you. You don't recognize her.
Travis: I don't.
Matt: She's not from the original Herd.
Travis: Zanror, she is quite a beauty. Congratulations.
Matt: "You saved us narrowly being executed, Grog." And he stands up and gets to the front of all the rest of the Herd there. "Call forth the rest of our people. We do not leave this town yet. We claim Westruun home for one more night. For it is tomorrow at dawn, we slam our blades against the hide of a dragon."
Travis: No. This is honor. This is pride. This is a life worth living.
Matt: "Will you join us in this glory and pride, fair cousin Grog? You have proven yourself worthy of life and respect and the might of the Herd of Storms."
Travis: How many do you number?
Matt: He looks about and takes in the mental math of all the people that were killed.
Marisha: Yeah, we didn't kill that many.
Matt: I know, you took a few down. "We'd stand, between the people that were loyal to me and my father, a good 43 men strong."
Travis: More than we need. And I grab my earpiece and I go, (meekly) thoughts? (laughter)
Sam: I mean, we have a busy day tomorrow already, I don't know if we should add dragons to it.
Taliesin: We're hunting another dragon.
Sam: Just say yes, we can always leave in the dead of night.
Travis: All right. All this bloodshed is giving me a terrible itch in my ear. We shall stay with you and tomorrow we will bathe in the blood of a dragon.
Matt: He steps forward to you now, there's a slight limp to his walk, but there's too much pride for him to show it as he tenses and reaches out his hands to you and clasps it in his own, Beastmaster-style, holding onto it.
Travis: Yeah, strength and honor!
Matt: "For the dragons, it shall be."
Travis: It shall be.
Matt: He releases the grasp. "Let them walk amongst us as brethren. Come. We have much preparation to do." And he goes back to Worra and limps into her arms, and she takes him up and it's her strength now lifting him on his feet. And the two begin to make their way across the rest of the center of town. All the rest of them take their weapons and they relax, and they still keep a very wary eye of you. The words have been said and there is still this tenuous truce, but they're still coming off the cusp of adrenaline, warfare, and the slaughtering of their previous leader. However, they are going along with the words that were spoken, and there is a look of general fear and respect in their eyes, guarded as it may be. What do you guys want to do?
Liam: I would like to sever the remaining gristle away from his arm that's holding the gauntlet on.
Matt: The gauntlets have been retrieved. And given to Grog, yeah.
Liam: Then I would like to loot Greenbeard's body.
Travis: Could you do me a favor? Could you butcher me a skull of Kevdak, please?
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah, yeah. I'm going to land.
Matt: You're going to land, all right.
Laura: And I'm going to call Trinket out.
Matt: Trinket, who's been hiding in the back room there.
Laura: Because things happened so fast for him!
Matt: They did happen.
Laura: And there were really strong people!
Ashley: And I got to go over and heal, yeah. Already healed him.
Sam: I'm going to go over-- are there any remains of the little boy?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Do you have anything that can heal the little boy or bring him back somehow, Pike? Key? Anything?
Marisha: I go and check the little boy. How bad is he? Is he beyond the point of return?
Matt: He's done.
Ashley: Could I--
Sam: Resurrect him or something?
Ashley: I have Raise Dead.
Matt: Do you?
Laura: Does it turn him into a zombie, or does it--
Matt: No, it just raises him from the dead.
Laura: Okay, yeah, do that.
Ashley: Okay. I'll go over to the little boy and see if I can--
Matt: Okay, this will take a while. All right. So, as the rest of herd move on, following Zanror, they begin to separate to gather the rest of the herd throughout the town. A few stay behind, keeping watch--
Marisha: I'll assist Pike in any way that I can.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to sit and fix my gun.
Matt: It's going to cost-- 500 gold are consumed by the casting of this spell as part of the--
Laura: I'll help.
Matt: Okay. Takes an hour. So, as you guys take this time, this is a short rest for those of you who aren't part of this ritual. You complete the ritual. Go ahead and make a religion check.
Laura: Hey, you already boxed up your stuff.
Matt: She was like, I'm done, I'm out. Peace.
Ashley: 20?
Matt: d20, add your religion.
Laura: That's good.
Ashley: 24.
Matt: Okay. Vex, you said you wanted to help. What did you want to help with the ritual on?
Marisha: No, I said I wanted to help.
Laura: She was assisting. I was helping with the money.
Matt: Right, sorry, helping with the money. How are you aiding with the ritual?
Marisha: What? How am I aiding with the ritual?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: What were you doing?
Matt: Well, she was casting-- she was preparing the ritual, preparing seals and taking out the components and praying to Sarenrae and speaking the rites, which channel through her in Celestial language. Although she doesn't understand Celestial, she speaks it through as part of the spell, almost like--
Taliesin: I speak Celestial.
Marisha: I also speak-- no, I speak Primordial. I keep getting that confused.
Matt: Yep. How are you aiding in this?
Marisha: Can place my hand on his chest and place my other hand on the ground and try and use natural healing to assist?
Matt: Sure. Go ahead and make a straight wisdom roll.
Marisha: Natural one.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Can I assist?
Matt: How would you like to assist?
Taliesin: I would like to come over and start listening to the chanting that she's doing in Celestial and harmonize and bring a voice to it since I can actually speak Celestial.
Matt: Roll a performance check.
Sam: Performance.
Laura: That's lovely.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: All right. As you finish the ritual, both the voices of Pike and Percy begin to harmonize across these various refrains in a language that, especially when spoken in this rhythmic, ritualistic way, it seems to almost create a third voice. And then you hear, clearly, there is a third voice harmonizing with them that you don't know where it's coming from.
Sam: It's me. I'm off here in the corner. (sings scat)
Matt: As the beautiful musical tones of the singing come to a close, your holy symbol, the glow fades, and a moment passes before you hear the soft coughing of the child's throaty expulsion, himself taking in his next breath of air. He sits up, cradling his head. "What happened?"
Marisha: It's okay. I dump a Cure Wounds in him now.
Matt: It's okay! (laughter)
Marisha: Not a potion! I cast Cure Wounds.
Matt: Okay, okay.
Taliesin: Take it, take it!
Matt: He's like, (choking sounds).
Laura: I cast Grasping Vine and lift him up by the neck.
Liam: Shot right in the chest.
Taliesin: Six years of Celestial, and when are you ever going to use it? It finally pays off.
Ashley: Thanks for helping, Percy.
Taliesin: That was lovely, thank you.
Matt: All right. So the child is brought back to life, healed, confused, dazed, but not really understanding the circumstances around him, just happy to--
Marisha: He heals 24 hit points.
Matt: Yeah, he's good to go. His wounds close, the dried blood's still there, but he seems to be in perfect health at the moment, although a little weak and worse for wear.
Laura: Where's your mother, child?
Matt: "I don't know."
Laura: Was she here in the square with you?
Matt: "No, everything went by so fast. They tried to pull them out, but they found me and pulled me out and brought me here. That's all. There was a fight and a lot of yelling. That's all I remember."
Ashley: Where do you live?
Matt: "Up by the temples."
Laura: Okay. Well, we'll help you find your family. And maybe while we're there we can see if your grandfather's around.
Matt: He smiles a little bit. You can still see the dried blood streaks across his face, but you can see past that to the smile that peeks through beneath his dirty face.
Laura: I lift him up and put him on Trinket so we can start walking.
Matt: Okay. He laughs and Trinket licks him and takes some of that off and he is excited to be grasping something, although he slides a couple times. You can see he's weak from the remnants of the resurrection spell.
Marisha: I give him a boost.
Matt: Okay. Anybody else doing anything for the short rest?
Travis: I would like to not only remove Kevdak's head, just the upper part, no jaw, just the skull, and I would like to use the bloodaxe to flay the skin around the bear tattoo off.
Laura: Is there anything else to loot off of Kevdak?
Matt: I mean, there is the bloodaxe, there is the--
Laura: Gauntlets?
Matt: The gauntlets, and he has four plus-one enchanted javelins that he did not have an opportunity to use this battle.
Laura: (sings) Bag of Holding!
Liam: I already called Greenbeard.
Travis: I'll take the plus-one javelins. And I'd like to put the flayed skin in your refrigerated bag.
Matt: So mark that, mark down in your refrigerated bag, flayed bear tattoo of Kevdak.
Laura: Flayed bear tattoo. Got it.
Matt: That's disgusting. General leather armor, quarterstaff. You do find one potion of greater healing he did not have the opportunity to try.
Laura: Nice. I'm putting that down.
Matt: That's all he has on him.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to spend the rest of the time that they did that ritual gathering up the bodies, the remains.
Taliesin: I'm going to fix my gun.
Matt: Okay. Make a tinkering check.
Taliesin: Just barely. By one point. Did not break.
Matt: Good. All right.
Liam: I'm going to start a fire--
Matt: There's already a fire going.
Liam: Is it?
Matt: Well, it's slower-burning embers now. One of the barricades that had been set fire by the Fireball earlier.
Liam: I'll stoke it, and then put the bodies on.
Matt: Okay, so you take the bodies of the dead villagers that had been lost in the battle and the handful of the other combatants that had fallen, and you throw them onto the fire and it crackles and burns over time. The smell of burning bodies fills the space around it for a while.
Taliesin: We have a house to procure some items from. And a conversation to have with Zanror at some point.
Sam: What time of day is it now?
Travis: Are there any other goliaths in the square that are lingering?
Matt: There are three lingering that are keeping an eye.
Travis: Can I walk over to one?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: Tonight we prepare for an incredible battle. Go. Release any meager prisoners you may have kept. They will do nothing for our fight.
Matt: "Very well. These two stay, though. No offense, but you did just kill one of my friends naught but an hour ago."
Travis: I did. And your claim is fair.
Taliesin: These two?
Laura: Who's these two?
Matt: There were three Herd members that were keeping an eye--
Laura: Oh, okay.
Matt: Two of them are goliaths. One of them is human. The human and the other goliath stay behind. The one you talked to walks off and seems to be following through on what you told him to do.
Taliesin: Is it Lord Zanror, by the way? I may request an audience with Lord Zanror at some point. With your supervision.
Travis: Yeah. Have at it.
Matt: Now Thunderlord Zanror.
Travis: Yeah, Thunderlord! I say that in my head.
Sam: We have Pike's dad to find, we've got a house to loot--
Marisha: We've got a child to deliver home.
Matt: Did you want to look over the items you found on Kevdak?
Travis: Oh fucking shit, yes, may I please?
Taliesin: And a unique opportunity to maybe really fuck up a dragon. If we want to be smart.
Matt: There's your bloodaxe. And there's your Titanstone Knuckles.
Laura: (laughs) Bowing down like he's been knighted.
Taliesin: Hm? We have a dragon who's going to go pick up a giant package of whatever we give him.
Laura: Oh shit, you're right.
Taliesin: We could make some interesting decisions on what's in that box.
Marisha: That is an interesting point.
Laura: I mean, do we have to stay in the square, or are we allowed to?
Matt: No. Doesn't seem to be anything holding you there other than the ritual that was done. When the ritual's completed, you're welcome to go about what you're doing. At which point you do see as time has passed, a few people start poking through windows, who apparently were either hiding in some of these buildings, and see you guys and check out and then go back into hiding again. The town still has people living throughout it. Many of them stay hidden whenever things move in their vicinity.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So.
Sam: What's our thing? Do we want to achieve anything else tonight or just rest?
Laura: I feel like we should return this little boy to his family. And see if we can find your grandpa.
Liam: In the short term, we should be able to walk freely, though.
Matt: All right. So, as you guys gather yourselves, partially rested and breathing a sigh of relief at the not horrible circumstance that nearly transpired there thanks to the luck of the gods in a lot of cases.
Laura: I can't believe we're not all dead.
Matt: You make your way northward through Westruun, toward the temple district, small child at your side with the intent--
Laura: On Trinket.
Matt: On Trinket by your side. And possibly to prepare for whatever the Herd has in store for dawn. And with that, we'll finish tonight's game.
Marisha: Now we're going to have to have another huge conversation.
Laura: We didn't die! I seriously thought we were all going to die. When he got healed and everything was running--
Travis: Yup. Yup. I was like, we might as well make it cool, because we're dead.
Liam: We had it, then it flipped and it was gone. And then we snaked it outta the fire.
Marisha: But we had them on the run!
Matt: He, by the way, on that Hold Person, that Cutting Words/Hold Person. Like, that's exactly what that--
Travis: Dude. Yes. Give it up for the fucking bard. Who has an article in Dear Vox Machina.
Sam: Oh yeah, appearing tomorrow.
Matt: Yeah, no. Kevdak hadn't used his action surge yet.
Marisha: What was that?
Matt: Kevdak hadn't used his action surge yet.
Sam: Action surge? What does that do?
Matt: Multi, it's what he does.
Taliesin: What I do, where he can take an extra action.
Matt: He can do four attacks in one round with the bloodaxe.
Sam: Did he ever get to attack?
Matt: No. Couldn't make his save. His arms were gone by the time he came around.
Laura: Oh my god, getting his arms off him, brilliant.
Matt: Plus, he had four more superiority die and the riposte ability. So he could--
Travis: What is riposte?
Matt: When a creature misses him with a melee attack, he can use one of his superiority die to do a reaction attack as well. So he could in theory get five attacks in one round.
Travis: Oh. Holy shit. That's that half-fighter side, right?
Taliesin: That's sexy.
Matt: Yeah, that Hold Person really changed the dynamic really fast.
Liam: We had a very heated discussion over the earring in that 30 seconds, let me tell you.
Taliesin: Well, we had that whole long walk. That was the theory.
Ashley: I think that was the most stressful game I've ever played.
Laura: This was incredibly stressful.
Sam: Pike almost died, Grog died.
Taliesin: I was about to be toast. Two more hits from that guy and that would've been the end of me.
Travis: That was fucking amazing.
Marisha: That was a three-hour battle. We did nothing but fight.
Matt: And honestly, mucking it up with the archers helped too, because they were all about to start focus-firing on whoever was visible.
Laura: Yeah. So I'm glad we split them up. Getting Grog out.
Matt: Getting Grog out was key. If you hadn't pulled him out and taken all those attacks of opportunity? You would be gone. They weren't going to stop when you hit zero.
Travis: No no, that would've been it.
Matt: They were going to cut you up until you were dead.
Travis: Yeah. Yep.
Liam: Look at that guy.
Matt: What?
Travis: I know, look at the face, you saw it too, didn't you? The shadow of a man that wished he could have butchered somebody and didn't quite get to. (laughter)
Travis: The shadow of Craven Edge lives behind those eyes.
Matt: It's okay. Bunch of dudes. You guys have dragons to deal with.
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: All right, well, guys, thank you very much for watching. Thanks again for Loot Crate for being awesome and being our sponsor--
All: Thank you, Loot Crate!
Matt: If-- I dunno, if he's still around. Is our guest still around?
Laura: Is he?
Sam: No, there's no way.
Travis: Why don't you mention the Loot Crate link again?
Sam: Oh yeah, we should flash up the Loot Crate link and we'll be tweeting that out later.
Matt: Yeah, it's ww (stammers), www.Loot Crate.com/criticalrole.
Sam: So that's five w's?
Taliesin: And the code is "criticalrole", not "critrole".
Matt: They didn't coordinate with Wyrmwood.
Liam: Missed opportunity.
Taliesin: I got Loot Crate for my little brother. It's his nerd of the month club.
Ashley: It's the best. I have Loot Crate and it's the best.
Travis: Yeah, it's a bash. Every time around we're like, aha!
Marisha: I know, it's like a little present to yourself that you forgot you got.
Taliesin: Also, anything I don't want, I put into a big bin and, at Christmas, I am Santa Claus to all the kids on the block. It's intense. They all want to know what's up with me.
Matt: That's fantastic. All right. Well, in the meantime, we'll be back next week to see what this next chapter in the Westruun portion of this adventure holds. Well done, guys. That's the largest battlefield I've made so far.
Sam: That was an amazing battlefield.
Laura: Good job, Matthew Mercer.
Marisha: Thank you, Dwarven Forge!
Matt: Is he-- he's not here? (groans of disappointment)
Matt: Well, we had the pleasure of having Patrick Rothfuss in the office today to watch the game, so wherever you are, Patrick, pleasure to meet you, and maybe we'll drag you--
Ashley: Big fans, big fans.
Matt: Maybe we'll drag you on the show sometime. Next time you're in LA. So, anyway guys, have a wonderful evening, see you next week, and is it Thursday yet? (cheering) [end of transcript]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. I think we're recording, because my camera light's not on, but nevertheless, welcome. (laughs)
Travis: We're totally recording.
Matt: I'm pretty sure we are. Anyway guys, welcome, we have a fantastic guest who will be joining us later this evening, but before we get to that we have announcements to go over real fast. First and foremost, tonight's episode is sponsored by a new sponsor, a fantastic group called Quidd! If you want to talk about that first?
Sam: Hi, guys. Vacation Sam here. Quidd is our sponsor tonight, a fantastic new sticker app for your phone. You can check it out at bitly, that's bit.ly/crquidd. I didn't know much about the company, but Quidd sounded vaguely British, so little-known fact about me, I have access to the BBC archives at home, so I did some snooping and sure enough, I found a World War II newsreel transcript that talked about Quidd, so I thought I would do a dramatic reading of it for you right now.
Liam: Here we go.
Sam: News from the front! This is Nigel J. Creamhutch reporting from BBC London. March 23, 1944 may be a turning point in WWII as PM Churchill announces a new weapon in the fight against those devilish Nazis. They're calling it Quidd, a new app where you can collect stickers, cards and Funko figures on your telephone device. Our lads on the frontlines are already using it! We spoke with Lieutenant Neville Bingham of the Royal Navy. Right, yeah, Quidd's this free app available on the Apple App Store and Google Play, and it's helping us drive Hitler back to Berlin. But it's not just our Tommies. The Reds have discovered Quidd as well! We spoke with tank commander Ivan Bashenko. With Quidd, Russian army is strongest in world. Morale better now with thousands of stickers to collect that can be used like emojis in messages to your friends. Stalingrad will not fall with these cute stickers! Why, they're even using Quidd across the pond! We spoke with American sergeant John Smith, an American Doughboy. I'm John, an American. We American GIs love to collect stickers from brands like Rick and Morty, Bob's Burgers, Family Guy, Breaking Bad, Star Trek, and newly announced Game of Thrones. Take that, Emperor Hirohito! Well, there you have it, ladies and gents. Your British Armed Forces and our allies will defeat the Nazis and win the Second Great War if you go to bit.ly/crquidd and check out Quidd. Good night, good luck, and god save the queen, pip pip! (cheering)
Travis: I'm so glad that's available on the BBC.
Sam: Yeah, it was a weird transcript. I would have shown the newsreel, but it was just a transcript.
Matt: Fair enough. Well, thank you for the update on that, and thank you, Quidd for sponsoring tonight's episode. Really appreciate it.
Liam: Did they win the war?
Sam: Find out next time! (laughter)
Matt: All righty, let's see. Do you have any merch updates at all, Laura?
Laura: There's stuff in the store!
Matt: There you go. Perfect. Good, I like it, thank you. The Green Ronin Campaign Guide. Pre-orders go up on Monday, guys!
All: What!
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: Yes, and if you get the book and the pdf, I think the pdf is available immediately, so some of you will have access to actually read the book on Monday.
Laura: Are you so nervous, Matt?
Matt: I'm so nervous. (laughs nervously)
Taliesin: People can actually, in real time, call us when we're wrong on our own stuff.
Travis: What do you mean, finally? They do that every week.
Marisha: Finally? Although you are Taliesin Jaffe.
Taliesin: This is a level of pain I've only dreamed of; I'm very excited.
Liam: Hey. We're so proud of you.
Travis: Yeah, nice job with the words and stuff.
Sam: Hold on though, we haven't read it yet. What if it's terribly written, by a child?
Laura: We'll find out he used crayon. It's all written in marker.
Matt: Probably. Do you know how hard it is to get crayon printed these days?
Marisha: Only if the writers' room dropped the ball.
Matt: Well, I hope you guys enjoy it, so look forward to that. The podcast is now episodes 11 through 20, right? Up on the Apple Store. So you can go ahead and download those, which are awesome.
Marisha: Yep, Apple and Google Play.
Matt: Yes. And those are the ones. Of course we'll have Talks Machina next Tuesday at 7:00pm about this episode tonight, here on Twitch and Alpha, 7:00pm Pacific, with our fantastic host Brian Foster, so you can check that out. Wednesday Club next week for you?
Taliesin: Wednesday Club, we're talking about Comic Con, because Comic Con is coming up, and we're going to try and give you a first-timer's guide to Comic Con: If you've never been to one, what to expect, what to do for fun, and all sorts of things that you could see or do in San Diego. Other than us. Thank you, I was very proud of last night.
Matt: We're not having a show next week, we're going to be at Comic Con. Yeah, we have a week off. So we'll miss you guys next week, but we do have our Critical Role panel on Saturday at Comic Con, it's at 10:30am in Room 6...
Travis: BC... E.
Matt: It's a nice big room. You guys should come, we're going to have silly questions, Q and A, conversations, stories and a lot of funness and some cool surprises!
Sam: Prizes?
Taliesin: Prizes?
Matt: Surprises!
Marisha: Oh yeah, we have some announcements.
Matt: So hopefully you guys can make it at San Diego Comic Con. If you're going to be there we'd love to see you. And last but not least, Sagas of Sundry: Dread. The third episode went up today.
Matt: (perfect unison) Shit's getting real.
Marisha: (perfect unison) Shit's getting real.
Matt: I'm going to marry you. (laughter)
Matt: What's that? Oh that's right, and at GenCon next month we have our live show, we mentioned it last week. Tickets are still on sale for the general admission. We're looking forward to having you guys there, it's Friday evening.
Travis: Yeah, it's Friday evening, 7 30. In fact, we got an even bigger theatre this year. The last theatre had 1,500 seats, we're like, oh, we'll never get that many people, and it went (explosion sound). It filled up, so we got a 2,500 seat theatre. It's massive, it's a huge party, if you didn't join us last year, you want to come to this mayhem. It's so much fun. You don't need passes to GenCon, by the way, you don't have to have a badge or anything for that, it's a standalone thing. There are definitely tickets still available, it's going to be super fun.
Sam: I feel like with that many people we should have beach balls in the audience, and they can do the wave.
Matt: Inflatable d20s to throw out there...
Marisha: (gasps) You can get them. They're on ThinkGeek I think.
Matt: This is a terrible idea.
Travis: It's a great idea!
Matt: Anyway, without further ado, I think that concludes our announcements, and as such, let us dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. So where we left off last time. Vox Machina, having finally encountered the Undying King, returned in physical form in the Shadowfell, did battle and fled, quite unprepared for that venture, and gathered some tidbits of information about what Vecna's plans may be. Upon returning and discovering that your disintegrated Vax has returned through some deal he made with his patron the Raven Queen after disintegrating, you decided to go ahead and try and gather more information about this and beseech some of the higher powers within Exandria. Pike talked to Sarenrae and was given the invitation to come visit her in Elysium on the Island of Renewal, and upon gathering your materials and causing a mess in Vasselheim, you got together and went to meet this fantastic Everlight. On her island, you spoke with her. She gathered some information from you, as Vecna seemed to be blocking at least the influence and vision from a lot of the deities, and then gave her blessing unto Pike, transferring you over to one of the other gods that lives among the Blessed Fields of Elysium: Pelor, the Dawnfather. You then walked through the orchards that led to the Fortress of the Sun where he resides, spoke with some of the guardians there, and were led into the center of the citadel, where you met, in the central throne room under the Zenith Tower, Pelor himself. Upon exchanging information, you spoke of your need to gather the favor of certain gods in the battles to come, and were given a challenge. To step up to plate: Vex'ahlia. You accepted the challenge and racing to the top of the tower, the zenith, before the fires could be extinguished in the brazier that awaited you, you threw yourself into the fire, and upon the party speaking on what it was that made Vex'ahlia such an important member of not just your team, but your family, and gave you strength, she was imbued with a blessing of the Dawnfather himself. After which, we left off as you exited the front of the Fortress of the Sun, stepped into the central glade that marks the center of the seemingly endless orchards that surround this region, and Vox Machina, what would you like to do?
Travis: Eat all of the fruit.
Laura: No.
Travis: It was really good. It was just fruit, by the way. Like I said.
Sam: We're still in heaven right now?
Laura: We're still in Elysium.
Taliesin: It's not quite heaven.
Travis: Are there any other gods here that we should curry favor with? For? Of?
Laura: Are there any more gods here? Not that we know of.
Sam: We forgot to ask.
Travis: Did we?
Laura: Yeah. I don't think Ioun is here.
Matt: You're looking at the series of the Sun Tree cousins, one of which you've met, scattered amongst this glade surrounding the central citadel.
Marisha: What a douche.
Sam: No other people? Guards? Nothing.
Matt: You have the guards behind you, the large planetar and deva entities that stand there, armored in their golden plate, after ushering you out, are standing guard.
Laura: Maybe we can ask them.
Sam: Sure. I'll go up to one and say, hello there, big fellow.
Matt: Standing a full ten feet taller than you, practically, the wings slightly bent, the large planar entity kneels down. "Hello."
Sam: Hello. Vacation Scanlan here. Couple questions. By the way, was he one of the ones who fought in there?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Oh. Do they all look alike? 17 plus one.
Matt: Hard to tell. You didn't pay a lot of attention.
Sam: Okay. Hey, just wondering, a few questions. A: How does one get out of here? Is there a door to another plane?
Matt: "I imagine the same way you came in."
Sam: A god brought us here. All right, cool. Number two: Are there any other like your Dawnfather around here? Any other gods in the area?
Matt: "Across Elysium, there are two deities that call it home: the Dawnfather and the Everlight."
Sam: So we covered our bases. Out of curiosity What are you called?
Matt: He looks very closely, and you get sense that part of its nature is scanning through you; it's getting a sense and a read of you as an individual, and it says, "No one you need to worry about." Stands up and then takes two steps back (heavy footfalls) into place and looks straight ahead.
Marisha: Scanlan, you should remember that line, that's a good one.
Sam: Yeah. I already forgot it. I'm too intimidated. Was it no one or something? I don't know. Well, good speaking to you.
Matt: Still looks out. Doesn't respond.
Sam: Well, how do we get out of here? Can she take us home?
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: She does on the daily.
Sam: I know, but I don't know. They talked about some sort of a gate that keeps the gods out and the bad gods in.
Matt: To remind you of what happened last time. There was talking about possibly... or at least there was the Trammel, the Prime Trammels that were used previously to seal the Chained Oblivion, Tharizdun, and that the orchestrator, the designer of those was Ioun, the Knowing Goddess. Ioun, however, has sealed herself away, being a wounded god, long recovering, and the only information that Pelor has of where she hid herself, the key, essentially, is not an object but a person. You're seeking an individual, of which you were given a solar light map of a single small home in a forest ravine not far from a place that you've noticed was near the Pools of Wittebak, which is in the Cliffkeep Mountains.
Sam: Yeah, but there was also a mention of some Divine Gate that keeps people from--
Matt: Well, the Divine Gate is a known existing entity. It's essentially a large gate that prevents the gods from returning to the Prime Material Plane.
Liam: It's like a metaphysical screen door that keeps flies out.
Laura: So the gods can't get in and out.
Sam: Sure, sure.
Marisha: Yeah, the Prime Trammel. Which we now have to get--
Laura: We have to get near the the Cliffkeep Range, near the Pools of Wittebak, is where we need to go.
Marisha: And the Cliffkeep is not too far from Whitestone?
Matt: Cliffkeep Mountains go across a lot of the northern side of Tal'Dorei, from what you're familiar with. Like, we're talking Kraghammer to Gatshadow to the Jorenn Village. There's a lot of things. It's like a big horizontal mountain range that caps the top part of the continent.
Marisha: Do I recognize the city that I can get us to that's close?
Matt: Fort Daxio or Kraghammer.
Sam: Haven't been to Kraghammer for a while, although Daxio might be worth a check.
Taliesin: What's closest to the pools?
Matt: Probably Terrah or the Pools of Wittebak. Those are the two that are closest.
Laura: What is Terrah?
Marisha: My home.
Matt: Terrah's not your home.
Marisha: Sorry. Sorry, Terrah is the Earth Ashari.
Sam: My other home, summer home.
Matt: The home away from home.
Liam: Can you also remind me where my Vecdar made me feel Vecna-- where on the Prime Material Plane?
Matt: Yes. Oh, where?
Liam: Yeah, we talked about it, but I can't remember.
Matt: You did, yes. It seemed to be hundreds of miles northwest of Vasselheim. You didn't sense any movement, but you knew the general direction and distance.
Liam: And that was yesterday.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Teacher?
Matt: Yes, Laura?
Laura: I was excited the last game and somehow have misplaced my Pelor champion piece of paper.
Liam: Oh, she doesn't get to have it now. That's how that works.
Laura: I don't know how it happened! It's not with my stuffs.
Matt: That's okay, I remember what it does, and if you decide to use it--
Laura: You'll tell me? Okay.
Matt: I won't tell you. You tell me you want to use it.
Laura: Oh shit, okay. I'm sorry. I had it, and it's not here.
Taliesin: It's weird how he's so nice and yet it still feels like you are in so much trouble.
Laura: I'm in a lot of trouble, you guys.
Liam: He's calm, but indifferent. Like the Dawnfather.
Matt: All right, so what would you like to do?
Travis: Yeah, what would we like to do?
Marisha: Should we go to Terrah? Check in with them, I guess, while we're there?
Taliesin: Seems prudent.
Marisha: And talk to Pa'tice.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: All right. We ready to go?
Taliesin: I'm very ready to go. This is lovely and everything, but I've had my fill.
Marisha: I will burn my 8th-level spell slot to Plane Shift us to Terrah.
Matt: To Terrah, all righty.
Marisha: Mind the gap.
Taliesin: What gap?
Marisha: Don't worry about it.
Travis: No effects from eating that fruit, right?
Matt: No, you didn't sense any effects from that fruit, at the moment.
Travis: Didn't remove a curse or anything?
Matt: No, you didn't. Nothing really caught you up to speed, in that.
Laura: Are we by those fruit trees again?
Matt: There are no fruit-bearing trees directly near you. The Sun Trees are around you. Further in they do, yes. All righty. Bringing up my notes on Terrah, since that's where you're going.
Marisha: Yeah, I should probably--
Laura: I'm so confused about the order of things. If we go to Ioun, and we don't have everything we need for this Prime Trammel, are we fucked? I know we need godly power in order to imbue them, right? Or something?
Liam: Either here or soon we need to sit and work this out.
Sam: What do we need to bring into the trammel?
Laura: Well, Pelor gave me this. Snap, snap, snap, zip. This. It's a stone and it's supposed to be strong enough to--
Liam: Power the trammel?
Laura: Part of it? Not all of it.
Marisha: We need to collect more, though, right? We have to get like eight or something.
Sam: Wait, it said that?
Matt: You weren't given any indication as to how many you needed.
Laura: But it did seem like this is not enough.
Marisha: Oh no, wait, Ioun was healing for eight centuries. That's where I got that number. Sorry.
Travis: I could do it, too. Five. Five stones of power.
Matt: All right, so as you complete your spell, Keyleth, you step through the base of the nearest tree, possibly the same one you spoke with earlier if you want to be a dick about it.
Marisha: Oh yeah! Let's walk through that asshole. That sounds worse for us. But fuck it.
Matt: All right, you aggressively stampede through the center of this one tree and emerge on the other side from one of the surrounding trees on the Terrah village. There are a number of these pseudo-petrified or dried-out large-trunk trees that seem to have slowly died off from the heavy tectonic shifts and small quakes that happen in this area, that have made a lot of the land unable to support large forms of plant life, or at least the trees that used to exist here. So you step out and emerge from the exterior of the village as it domes down into this small crater that you recall seeing before, where most of the village inhabits the central portion, and the village is there before you.
Marisha: What were the shard things called again?
Matt: The shard things?
Marisha: The things we need to collect?
Matt: There wasn't really a name for them more than they're small pieces of essence of the deity.
Marisha: So we need pieces of god.
Liam: Does the little seed of light given to my sister look anything like the little seed that Scanlan and Vax saw from riding the shadow creature in the sky?
Matt: No. In a sense that it's a small source of power of some kind, but what you saw there was maybe about that large on the platform. What she has is bead size.
Laura: Is it this size? Or this size?
Matt: Comparable to each. So you stand outside of Terrah. What are you doing?
Sam: What time of day is it? How tired are we?
Matt: Based on when you left, it would still be probably-- well, you were over in Vasselheim, which means it's getting dark, actually. I'd say with the way the sun has passed through the sky now, you've just gotten past dusk. There's still light in the sky, but it's going from oranges to purples to dark blues on the horizon, and you can see hints of firelight, torchlight and candlelight from within the actual city below.
Sam: Well, what are we going to need on this trip? Maybe we should get whatever supplies we need. Is it far? Are we going to become gas?
Travis: Are we going underground?
Marisha: Oh, to Terrah?
Sam: No, we'e in Terrah. But the next day, we're going to the--
Taliesin: To the pools.
Marisha: Do we want to stay the night here, then? I can't mist us right now. I'm tapped out. Camp here.
Laura: Vax? Can you sense Vecna? Is he still in the same place?
Liam: I can sense him?
Matt: You can sense him. He is, from your current location, thousands of miles from you.
Laura: Oh, hard to tell, then?
Liam: He's still really shitty, though.
Matt: Yeah, very heavy west-northwest direction from you, currently.
Sam: Well, sleep? Do we need to get any intel on where these pools are? Do we need anything?
Laura: We should maybe talk to the people of Terrah? It's not that late.
Marisha: Yeah, let's go. They have a spare room for us.
Travis: Are you the leader of all the people?
Marisha: I'm the leader of the Air Ashari and the Voice of the Tempest.
Travis: Is that a yes or a no? You don't have to fucking brag.
Marisha: No, there's four of us, and I'm one of the four.
Sam: Do you know the one who lives here?
Marisha: I do.
Sam: Then let's go see him or her. Or they.
Marisha: No, we can just go, like I was saying five minutes ago. Let's just go.
Matt: All right. So as you walk down into the village, a number of the guardians step out quickly, seeing an approaching party, however, recognizing Keyleth and her station immediately, turn into an escort that leads you to the center portion of the village.
Marisha: I request Pa'tice.
Matt: Quickly enough, they go and retrieve Pa'tice. You see the elderly form of the leader you've met before step out, the graying hair, the weathered dark skin tones, the long greens and brown leathers that drape off, showing hints of the knees and lower feet, the large walking staff that he carries at his side as he approaches and the headdress that seems to be a combination of thick twines and shale shards that have been woven in, steps forward. "Keyleth. An unexpected visit, most definitely."
Marisha: Kaitiaki.
Matt: "Kaitiaki."
Marisha: Pa'tice, I am so sorry for the late intrusion. We've just gotten back from the plane of Elysium, so we're a little tired. Yeah, we're fighting a god right now, well, more of like a demi-god, so have you heard of Vecna? Sorry, I'm probably getting ahead of myself. Do you have any food? Let's talk over dinner.
Matt: "We have food, yes. You are guests of Terrah. Please, we will provide whatever you require. Come, provide them a meal!" And he puts his hand out and they run off quickly.
Taliesin: I like that people just feed us. We show up, and there's food.
Sam: You've been used to that your whole life.
Taliesin: Not at home.
Sam: I have to sing for dinner. You just say--
Taliesin: Have you ever tried not singing for dinner?
Sam: Maybe I'll get more food.
Taliesin: You might!
Liam: You did have one year-ish where you were on the skids. You did your Prince and the Pauper bit for a little bit.
Taliesin: It's a big vague, but yes. I was on a boat for quite a while.
Travis: Oh my god, can we eat food? (laughter)
Matt: And quick as that, you guys make your way down. It's a modest meal, but it's a meal nonetheless. Mostly hunted creatures of the local mountainside, some dried beets and root.
Marisha: We always try to source locally.
Taliesin: Charmingly provincial.
Matt: (laughs)
Laura: Keyleth, perhaps you should let your people know that the world is in danger.
Marisha: So the world's in danger, as she said--
Sam: The waiter is like, what?
Liam: Runs out the door.
Marisha: Aw shit! I just induced panic.
Matt: Pa'tice, who's sat down with you, says quickly, "We have been made aware via the other Ashari that there is some danger possibly coming. We are awaiting word of what to do other than keep ourselves in a defensive position. We have to guard the rift, of course. But should there be a call to action, we'll do what we can. I'm unfamiliar with this Vecna, but whatever you plan, please be careful."
Marisha: (sighs) Okay. More than anything, I think I would want you all to be relief for the surrounding area and surrounding villages if anything disastrous were to happen. I know you have to guard the rift and that is insanely important and especially right now with someone like Vecna who could potentially abuse that. But if anything were to happen, I don't know if you could house extra people during a disaster.
Matt: "We are quite good at assembling makeshift and temporary lodging. The rock is our friend, if you will."
Marisha: Yeah, that's more, I think, what we would need.
Matt: "Of course, of course! Not a worry."
Marisha: Currently, Vecna is just north of Vasselheim, close to Pyrah.
Matt: "Have you asked Pyrah for aid, as well?"
Marisha: They've also been put on alert, but we have not personally been there yet since this has happened.
Matt: "Well. Good. They're closer. But we're happy to help if we can."
Marisha: Yeah. Thank you.
Laura: Things are happening very quickly. We just happened here first.
Matt: "We're happy to help. Where are you off to?"
Sam: The Pools of Wittebak.
Matt: "What brings you towards the Pools of Wittebak?"
Sam: You know this place?
Matt: "It is a series of poisoned wells and hulking, stupid giants."
Sam: Hulking, stupid giants?
Laura: Giants? At the pools?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: I thought it was something about gnomes there.
Matt: "It was once."
Sam: They grew. (laughter)
Laura: Is that something you can do, Scanlan?
Sam: I don't know. (laughs)
Matt: "They're geothermic large puddles across the mountainside. Various minerals being lifted up from the deep waters beneath the mountain. Heated, bubbling, boiling, steaming. But the giants moved in hundreds of years ago, stomped around, and ended up filling the entire subterranean gnomish city of Wittebak with fumes and poison. Killed most of them, and the rest fled to Kraghammer."
Liam: Do you all ever broach the area or do you just stay clear of it?
Matt: "Best to avoid, we have our own business to deal with. And it's 100 miles from here. It's not much of an issue."
Taliesin: And the pools are naturally poisonous?
Matt: "Well, some are toxic, some are not, but since the giants moved in and ruptured some of the natural formations, some of them have grown toxic or acidic, yes."
Marisha: Do you know if people still try to live there? We're looking for someone.
Matt: "If they are, they're foolish."
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: That's our kind of people.
Laura: Maybe the person we're looking for is a giant.
Marisha: Maybe.
Sam: Do you know what type of giant? We've seen a few types of giants. Do you know their make and model?
Matt: "The dumbest. Hill giants."
Laura: Hill giants.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Easy to outsmart, difficult to outrun. They'll eat anything, even small little gnomes."
Laura: Seems like they ate a lot of them.
Sam: (laughing) I guess so.
Laura: Pasty, I have a question. Do you know anything about Ioun?
Matt: "I know of the name."
Laura: But not much.
Matt: "We're not the most devoted people."
Laura: I know.
Marisha: I saw that. (laughter)
Matt: "I can't imagine I'd have any information you wouldn't."
Laura: Okay. Just checking.
Matt: "My apologies."
Laura: This food is really good.
Matt: "Yes! Enjoy your meal!" And he gets up and walks away.
Taliesin: He was so officious.
Laura: I thought we were walking into a fucking lake with gnomes living there. I didn't realize we were going to fight giants.
Travis: This got so much better all of a sudden.
Taliesin: If it were easy, it really wouldn't be us, would it?
Marisha: So the question is, is there actually someone of some minor intelligence living there that is this magical key, or did that person get eaten by a giant?
Taliesin: I cannot believe I'm about to say this. I'm inclined to believe the god. They're in the position where trying to trick us out of leaving is not necessary. They could've just told us to leave and be done with it. That information just wouldn't suit them, I don't think.
Marisha: I'm not saying it's bad information, I'm just wondering who the key is.
Laura: It's possible the key is now inside of a giant's stomach. In which case, it still would be inside of someone. Just a different someone.
Marisha: Yeah. Maybe they're still living inside. Maybe it's like a Moby Dick situation.
Matt: You do recall the map that was shown to you by the Dawnfather Pelor. It was adjacent to the pools, not actually in the Pools of Wittebak. It was within a forest, and was a home.
Laura: Oh! I remember it now! It was a home inside. Oh, I drew a little map of it. Yep, that's it. Yes, it's adjacent to the pools, but there's a home in a forest. Did you like it? That's what my map was.
Marisha: Can we theoretically just mist over everywhere?
Laura: I mean and look out for a home in the forest? We'll have to fly pretty low. I'm assuming the home is going to be covered by treetop.
Travis: We never travel traditionally anymore. I'm just saying, I miss the romantic aspects of traveling the countryside. It's like fast forward, immediate gratification, fucking you know.
Sam: The Dawnfather said we must hurry or else the world will end.
Laura: It's very far. We could Misty Step to the forest and then walk in the forest?
Travis: Why are you fucking talking to me like I'm a child?
Laura: No reason, darling.
Travis: Okay. That would-- okay. (laughter)
Liam: Once this is all done, Grog, you and I will go on a long trek together.
Travis: Yeah? Yeah. I dig that.
Laura: Don't be dark and creepy and make it sound like you're being nice. I know you're being dark and creepy right now.
Travis: Oh, hey. Don't get after my camping partner like that, all right? Shit. Chill.
Liam: Can't predict this one.
Travis: No marshmallows for this witch.
Marisha: It is a little weird to be making promises, though.
Taliesin: Well, on that chipper little side note, I think we should turn in for the evening.
Sam: Yes, do we have lodging?
Matt: Lodging is provided for you. They have a number of various guest tents and small buildings that provide you with space. Not the highest of quality of places you've slept in, probably, and if you wanted to provide your mansion instead, you're welcome to, but ample food, quiet sleep. It's a comfortable evening's rest. You all find yourselves through the evening. As you sleep, and having this being the first time many of you have slept in Terrah, it takes you a while. There is just a general low hum or vibration to the ground that you sleep on. You get the sense it's probably proximity to the Rift, but there is this slow, perpetual (rumbling). It's like a weird, low rumble. Like a heavy bass sound that never seems to dissipate that you hadn't noticed until you were trying to quietly sleep. But it's not off-putting and within ten or 15 minutes, it actually almost helps to lull you to rest. You all come to in the morning, gather your supplies, and are preparing for the next leg of your journey. What do you wish to do?
Travis: Could I attune, either before I go to sleep or when I wake up, to the Dwarven Thrower instead of the Bloodaxe?
Matt: You may. All right. Any other attunements, anyone wishes to--
Liam: I'll set the Deathwalker's Ward to acid.
Matt: All right, to acid. Boom.
Laura: Before everyone else gets up, can I go find where Vax is sleeping?
Matt: You may.
Laura: This is a tent. What do I do? Do I knock? Do I shake it? I'm not sure. Scratch?
Matt: They're lodging made from large pieces of shale and rock, jammed into a somewhat triangular pattern to form an earth yurt, if you will.
Laura: Oi. Vax. Are you naked?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Put some clothes on, then. Jesus. Keyleth, sorry.
Marisha: Keyleth opens the shamble door first with a little earth movement. I'm dressed. Yeah. I'm not like that.
Laura: You don't sleep naked?
Marisha: I'm going to go get coffee.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: (laughs) Keyleth darts off in the distance and the two of you are left within the tent.
Laura: Are you decent?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: I'm coming in.
Liam: I'm still naked.
Laura: Ugh, come on! So fucking weird. (groans) I turn my back to him.
Liam: I start putting on the rest of my armor.
Matt: Okay. (laughs)
Laura: Can I ask you a question? Well, I'm going to.
Liam: Of course you can.
Laura: I look down at my feet. Why didn't you ever try to take these back?
Liam: Well, they're going to be yours, anyway.
Laura: Oh, Jesus. You know, the only reason I do things is that I take great joy in irritating you. If you don't show irritation, it makes it not worth it. (sighs) Can I turn around now? I'm turning around.
Liam: I am covered.
Laura: Good. Why are you so calm? You're so calm and confident now. It's weird.
Liam: I mean, I'm on bonus time.
Laura: Is he still cold?
Matt: His skin is colder than a warm body, yes.
Liam: But I'm not Bobby Drake, right?
Laura: What's his heartbeat like?
Matt: (very slow heartbeat)
Laura: (groans) Jeez!
Taliesin: Wow, way to hang onto that one, Matt.
Liam: But look. (slashing noise) I mean, look.
Laura: Is there blood?
Matt: Yeah, he bleeds, and it's a pretty open wound. You watch as the wound slowly seals itself up.
Laura: (gasping) No fucking way!
Liam: Oh, I didn't know it did that. (laughter)
Laura: That's really cool.
Liam: Thank you!
Laura: Wow.
Liam: I don't know, this is the dumbest conversation. This is bonus time. I shouldn't be here. It was the long sleep or come back and help.
Laura: So she gave you the option and then you came back and now you're what? Super? Super half-elf?
Liam: Well, I'm just following through on a promise made.
Laura: And we defeat Vecna and you're done, you're gone. That's it? Instant? Is it like we kill him and you're gone that second or is it like we kill him and you're here for another week or until the Raven Queen realizes that you're still here?
Liam: There isn't really a handbook.
Laura: She didn't tell you?
Liam: When Vecna is destroyed, she will call me back to where I would be right now. I expect everyone-- Keyleth and I have barely spoken-- I expect everyone to be sad, but I wish you wouldn't be so sad, not exorbitantly so, because I--
Laura: Exorbitant? That's a good word.
Liam: I read. Not as much as some, but I read. This is the path that I have chosen for myself and I did it based out of desperation, at first. But everyone dies.
Laura: I know.
Liam: And I think our group has become a little spoiled. We're not your ordinary group of idiots. We have blessings.
Laura: We're blessed idiots.
Liam: Blessed idiots, yes, and I know that we've gotten used to feeling like we can overcome losing anyone, but your average farmer or seamstress doesn't come back. And everybody dies, and all that matters is what you do with what you have, and I have done a lot, and I've taken great pride watching all that you have done. And I have good friends and I have fallen in love. More than most, I've had.
Laura: Yeah. After you die, do you stand by her side?
Liam: That I don't really know. I imagine she'll keep me close.
Laura: Do you like her now?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: That's good.
Liam: She's necessary and she's of use, and I like that.
Laura: She brought you back to us for a while. I like her, too. Anyway, do you want the fucking boots back? Fuck! Yeah, sure, yes, fine, that's fine. I wanted to give them back, so there you go. I'm glad you asked for them back.
Liam: I don't have a lot of time. They really are my favorite thing.
Laura: I know.
Liam: Physical thing.
Laura: Just make sure you write it down somewhere that after you go back to the Raven Queen that your sister is your favorite in the universe.
Liam: Dear, every stitch on my body is yours when I am gone.
Laura: I don't want every stitch. None of it's worth you leaving.
Liam: I slide my feet into the shoes and I wiggle my toes around. Oh, I'm sorry. I also have a confession to make.
Laura: What?
Liam: I don't exactly have your shoes anymore.
Laura: What?!
Liam: I think that I left them in the Feywild.
Laura: The Feywild?
Liam: Yeah, I think I dropped them into a bog. They didn't fit me.
Laura: You are a motherfucker. You couldn't have just put them in the Bag of Holding?
Liam: I'm still me.
Laura: Great, wonderful. I like being barefoot.
Liam: You have very cute, small feet that fit in the boots that you gave me that did not fit my feet.
Laura: That's great.
Liam: There's probably shoes here.
Laura: Probably. All right.
Liam: I pull out her shoes and I put them down.
Laura: Well, at least there's that!
Matt: Got your shoes back. Keyleth returns with some coffee. The rest of you come to consciousness, and the morning sun is now blaring down over the Cliffkeep. It's a strangely clear sky for the north. While a lot of it is relatively cold usually, you're used to seeing the snow- capped mountaintops-- oh, you found it! There you go.
Taliesin: It was with you the whole time.
Liam: Must have been inside your shoes.
Laura: Oh my gosh! I put it in the safe place and I didn't realize it!
Travis: Thank you, chat.
Laura: Did they really know where I put it?
Travis: Yeah, they know where your shit is.
Sam: The chat knew where you put your stuff?
Travis: "It's in the page in front of your blue divider."
Sam: No way!
Laura: Wow, thank you. Thank you, guys!
Liam: How many fingers am I holding up?
Matt: So bringing it back in, guys.
Sam: Yes, we have a guest.
Matt: Yes. At some point. So what do you guys want to do?
Sam: Set off! For the Pools of Hatabah! (laughter)
Taliesin: For the forest near the Pools of--
Sam: The adjacent to the Pools of Hatafah.
Travis: We didn't want to bring any extra muscle with us, do we, from these peeps? Oh wait, we're misting a long ways away. Never mind. Sorry. Forget it.
Liam: Grog, you are our extra muscle.
Travis: See! High five! Up top.
Liam: I'm not dead.
Travis: His hand's cold.
Matt: So you're traversing via your Wind Walk?
Marisha: I guess. Are we wind walking there?
Laura: (mispronouncing) Wind.
Marisha: (mispronouncing) Wind walk? Wind walking.
Liam: (mispronouncing) Wil Wheaton!
Sam: Hey, before we leave, real quick  Kiki.
Marisha: Yes.
Sam: Can you send messages or anything?
Marisha: No, man. We have been through this with our entire group so many times.
Sam: It's just you're so powerful.
Marisha: Thank you.
Sam: Let's go.
Marisha: What do you need?
Sam: I would send a letter, but it'll take weeks. So forget it. We'll be somewhere close to somewhere with magic soon.
Marisha: We can leave it in the hands of the Ashari, see if they can find somebody.
Sam: You trust these folks?
Marisha: Yeah. They're all right.
Taliesin: They're not the worst.
Marisha: They're not the worst.
Sam: All right, I'll scribble a little note and say-- well, no, there's no way they can get it to-- it's too far! It's too far!
Taliesin: I was really excited to see your face when you handed it to them and they're like, what are we supposed to do with this?
Sam: Here, I'll show you, Grog.
Travis: Write it out, bitch!
Sam: I write, a sphincter says what.
Travis: A. As. Good message. That's a big word at the front.
Laura: You could have gotten the last one, though.
Travis: What!
Sam: Yes!
Matt: Pike taps you on the shoulder and is like, "I'll teach you that later."
Taliesin: Thank you for the Ashley Johnson simulator. That was weirdly comforting.
Matt: Curse you, Blindspot!
Travis: Yeah! Are we misting?
Sam: Yeah, let's do it.
Laura: Should we eat a feast first, or should we save that?
Taliesin: Let's save that.
Laura: Okay. I don't know what we're going to find!
Matt: That's up to you guys. So preparations being done, you gather your materials, Keyleth completes the Wind Walk spell and you all feel yourselves grow slightly lighter on your toes. You concentrate. Over the minute transformation, you turn into your mist forms and take off in what direction?
Marisha: Towards the Falafel Pools!
Sam: We wrote it down.
Taliesin: Falafel pool is actually really tasty.
Travis: Pools of Wittebak.
Laura: Yeah! Towards the mountains!
Sam: He said "which direction?" He did not say "Where are you going?" He said "which direction?"
Laura: We got to look at our map.
Marisha: We have it on the map!
Laura: We have a map!
Matt: Okay! Well, you have Terrah locked down. The Pools of Wittebak would not be on your specific map that you acquired earlier. You can ask around within Terrah within a brief time and figure it out. Somewhere between 100 and 120 miles, and he points in a specific direction. You mark the sun's traveling and where certain landmarks are.
Marisha: I quickly do the math of how fast I can travel and be like okay, it shouldn't take long.
Matt: It's an eastward direction from where you are.
Taliesin: You did actually, legitimately point east, too, which makes that even better.
Matt: That's weird.
Taliesin: Yeah, that is weird.
Matt: I'm putting points in my nature skill. Or survival, I guess. Anyway, too many editions in my head. (laughs) As you all take off into the morning sky, you begin to rocket over, and you're hitting jets of wind that are beginning to find their way over the mountain ranges, and you get blown a little off-course, but you maintain concentration as best you can in that direction. Who is leading this venture?
Sam: I've been there. No, I knew of it, right?
Matt: You knew of it, yeah.
Sam: But I don't know exactly where.
Laura: After listening to everybody, I'll lead the way. That way, I can keep an eye out for the forest next, too, and the house and all the things we're looking for. I got a good look at the map that Pelor held up in front of us, as well.
Matt: Right. Okay, cool. I need you to go ahead and make a survival check. Actually, for this, I'm gonna say-- yeah, because it would be tracking in the wilderness. So survival.
Laura: Survival? Great. Any advantage on that?
Sam: Wilderness is your favored terrain.
Matt: It's mountains, technically.
Laura: That's also my favored.
Matt: Then yeah, roll again.
Travis: Because that was a one.
Laura: Oh! So much better. 28.
Matt: Okay, that'll do it. Your speed is tremendous when in this form, so what would have been an extended trek on foot over a series of days, it takes you mere hours to eventually get to a point where you crest one heavy peak. On the opposite side, you can see down the cliffside, the edge reaches a slight precipice, and there you can see what looks to be for a mile or so a cluster of dozens and dozens of pools of water of different sizes, all jammed together in a geothermic cluster, where you can see bright greens that move to a deep orange-maroon at the edges from the various mineral deposits that have collected over hundreds and hundreds of years. You can see large columns of smoke and steam of different chemical colors rising out of various large pools, and at a glance down, you can see a number of shapes: a number of hulking, humanoid shapes; somewhere in the neighborhood of 40 to 50 or so scattered at different pools, moving in small clusters or gangs. Some of them are jumping in, cannonballing and swimming through the actual pools. Some of them are lounging around and lying. Some of them appear to be returning, dragging things from the nearby forest on the eastern side of the bank.
Marisha: This is a vacation spot. What's that water park nearby?
Laura: Wet 'N' Wild?
Matt: Essentially, for a few hundred years, you get the sense that the Pools of Wittebak have been a hill giant water park. You can see these large mounds of mud and scrap wood and things that have been built into these large hill giant domiciles onto the side of the mountain not far from the pools. It's become a definite hill giant wandering zone. So do you guys continue over the pools, down towards the nearby forest ridge?
Laura: Yeah, past the pools.
Matt: All righty. You come to the forest ridge, and you can see it's not thick forest. The ravine comes down off the precipice where the pools are. You get a few hundred-- I'd say, actually more than that. A thousand or more feet away from that precipice before plants even begin to grow. It looks like whatever toxic chemicals have burbled up in some of these pools have made a lot of the ground there unable to give any forest life or sustain any large trees. As soon as the forest begins, it's a dense little pocket, maybe a mile and a half, two miles across. That's what you've got. What do you guys want to do?
Laura: Oh man. I should try to track any footprints in there and see if there's something around the edges, maybe, that lead back to-- shit, I don't fucking know. It's only a couple of miles.
Matt: If you guys begin to do a loop-over, who's doing a quick pass over the patch of forest? All right, make a perception check.
Laura: It's the forest. Do I get advantage on that one? Perception? What is that, 21? 21.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: Okay. Glancing over, you don't see any major glades or clearings. There doesn't appear to be any sign of bastions of civilization or any sort of logging going on. There's no areas where trees have been cut or cleared. It's a featureless forest top, from what you can see.
Laura: Can we fly down lower to where we're in between the trees?
Matt: You can go down into the forest, if you'd like. All right, who's going into the forest, then?
Marisha: I'll go.
Laura: I'll go. All of us?
Matt: So with Pike following suit, you guys all swoop down through the boughs of the trees and into the center of the forest itself. Within there, it's not a super thick canopy; it's not as heavy as the Feywild or some of the recent forests that cluster around Vasselheim. There are breaks in the canopy where you can see the sunbeams come through from the morning sun that's rising up higher and higher in the sky as you've traveled. The mist has burned away in this area, so it's a nice, warm forest. Glancing about, there is a lot of life in here. You can see signs of squirrels. You rush by what was a family of wolverine-like creatures that are rustling by. As soon as the wind scoots in and your mist forms come rocketing past, they all scatter and run off into the shadows. There's a lot of forest ground here to cover. For you to really super track with advantage, you'd have to go into human form. I'd give you a regular roll if you want to try and track in your mist form.
Laura: Not so much tracking right now, just a loose passover as we're going, looking for any kind of hunting traps or trails, signs of life of things that have been traversed a lot.
Matt: I'd say make an investigation check.
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27. Begin coasting through tree after tree through small, tiny bits of clearing that immediately come into large clusters of trunks and knotted branches that all merge and cluster at different intersections. After about 20 or so minutes of this, trying to do a large spiral around the forest inward, out of the corner of your eye, Vex'ahlia, you glance over and see a quick glimpse of something that appears to be more structured. You look back and rush over and there you see amongst the trees what appears to be a humble-looking two-story home. You see a small balcony built on the second floor that goes over one of the larger rooms in the bottom floor. It's not huge, by any means, and is hidden by a lot of the local brush and trees there. Can't get a lot more detail at this distance, though.
Laura: Okay. We land. I land.
Marisha: I follow.
Laura: And behind a tree, I'm going to take form.
Matt: You take your form? Okay. So all of you land and follow Vex?
Sam: Yeah!
Matt: You all take a minute to go back to your physical forms. You glance over, and there it is, standing before you. It's very shaded in this part of the forest. You can see a little bit of what looks to be interior light, very faint.
Travis: Like a normal person-sized dwelling?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Natural 20!
Laura: Yay!
Matt: It would be a little small for you, Grog. But you could walk in it. Proportionally, it looks maybe like it was built for a little bit of a smaller person.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: I want to start eyeballing the ground of the house for any kinds of traps set out. Is that investigation, yeah?
Matt: That is investigation.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18. Okay. So you guys begin to slowly--
Travis: Wait. Before we do, there are no random nudist giants that have run over in this area, right? There's nobody sees us over here taking off?
Taliesin: You're worried about giants streaking?
Travis: Not particularly.
Taliesin: That was very specific.
Travis: Well, yeah, have you ever seen a giant naked? You'll never forget it.
Taliesin: I might. I don't know.
Sam: Are you suggesting we set up a perimeter?
Travis: Yeah! I mean, it's a tiny house, I don't really want to go in there. I like having exits I fit through.
Laura: I don't want whoever it is to think that we threaten them in any way. But then, if they threaten us, I wouldn't want them to attack us, either.
Travis: Yeah, I'll just knock the house down from the outside.
Taliesin: Let's keep this structure standing for now.
Travis: I'll stay outside.
Sam: Are we knocking properly or are we just going to Invisibility in and see who's in there?
Laura: I feel like maybe knock properly.
Taliesin: If you think long and hard about it, it's not like manners have failed us very often.
Laura: Yeah. But do keep an eye out for traps or anything weird on the way up.
Marisha: I think we've failed at manners often.
Taliesin: We fail at manners more often. We'll see how this goes. We'll try being nice.
Travis: I'll stay out here.
Sam: I'll go knock on the door. It seems like a smallish door, right?
Laura: Yeah, I'll go with you.
Matt: Okay, so what's the marching order?
Sam: I'll go first.
Liam: Nothing perked up my spidey-sense?
Matt: From this current glance, no. You guys are behind a tree at a distance.
Travis: No nude giants, right?
Matt: Currently, no, but you're keeping an eye out.
Laura: I'm walking with a smile, looking very friendly.
Matt: Who's leading the charge?
Sam: I'll go knock.
Laura: I'll walk behind Scanlan.
Matt: We have Scanlan and Vex'ahlia.
Liam: I'm going to go, as well, and continue to eyeball for traps.
Taliesin: I'll be hanging back a bit, as well.
Marisha: I'll be comfortably back, as well.
Sam: Before we knock, what were we told was in this thing?
Travis: The key.
Sam: The key. Inside a person, inside a house.
Laura: It's possible the person is the key; we're not sure.
Matt: Is Trinket within your necklace for this?
Laura: No, he's out.
Matt: Okay, Trinket is out alongside you. Grog?
Laura: He's a very friendly bear, look at him!
Travis: I'm outside the house.
Laura: Trinket, smile! Be friendly!
Matt: As you get across this small walkway towards the front, as you're walking with a big smile, Vex'ahlia, something catches your eye on the ground right before her and you watch as she steps forward. You reach out and grab her wrist and hold her back before she steps down.
Laura: What is it?
Matt: There is a large, rusted, iron bear trap that is open that you almost stepped right into.
Travis: That would be have been donesies.
Laura: I was being friendly, and it almost crushed me. Trinket, be careful, this thing was made for you.
Matt: Trinket walks up to it.
Laura: No, no, be careful! Spit on it!
Matt: (growling)
Laura: Can he spit? Can Trinket spit?
Matt: (bear spitting) It's not very-- it's more of a power drool, if you will.
Liam: Is it easy enough to walk around?
Matt: You can walk around that one, and you begin to see what looks to be seven other ones that are clustered around.
Taliesin: This is probably a giant-infested forest.
Marisha: Yes, that's exactly why. Bear traps are the biggest thing you can get for a giant.
Sam: Can we evade them and get into--
Matt: You begin to walk around. Yeah, you would, actually. As you step around one, you can see, at the front door, there is a welcome mat that says "welcome." As you're approaching it, you can see the welcome mat, there's just something a little off about it. Like, it's raised higher than the ground should be.
Travis: Willkommen.
Marisha: Trapped?
Liam: Well, I could attempt to dicker with it, but we could just knock the door over it if we really are going on manners.
Taliesin: Double-check to make sure the door isn't a problem, either. I'd imagine if the welcome mat is.
Liam: The door's going to blow up if we knock on it? I mean, we don't have much luck with doors.
Laura: Can I grab a stick and lift the edge of the mat up?
Liam: Do you want to do that?
Matt: Are you stopping her from doing that?
Liam: Yes, I am! Let me take a look at it, please! I've already detected it. I will attempt to disarm it with thieves' tools, correct?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: That's fine. That is a 29.
Matt: You walk over. You look and you watch. There's a small cord that is hidden amongst the brush that runs from underneath the mat through a small ring that goes up from the house, then up a branch or vine, so it's hidden amongst them. You look straight up about 40 feet, you see a nice, solid, thick trunk that is just (creaking).
Travis: That's some Predator shit!
Matt: Right above the door.
Taliesin: I feel like there's a complicated story that goes along with all of this. I'm really excited by it.
Marisha: Is this going to be an Uncharted kind of adventure?
Taliesin: We have found the cabin of Macaulay Culkin!
Matt: So knowing this, you walk over and grab the cord. Looking to see where the leverage is, you motion to Grog to come over and hold it. You find another piece of heavy stone that is by the wall to the side. With Grog's help, you snip it, bring it over, and tie it onto the edge of this piece of the stonework, like a small pole that was placed at the base of the house. It holds the weight of this suspended trunk and it no longer triggers based on the step.
Liam: Percy, I'm sorry, I know you like a good Rube Goldberg.
Taliesin: I was really excited by this thing. It's a shame to dismantle it.
Laura: It's still there. Maybe when we leave, we can crash it down.
Liam: Does the door look hinky at all?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: You did say kinky, right?
Liam: I said hinky. 18.
Matt: 18. It does not appear to be trapped, per se. It does appear to be locked.
Liam: Yeah, well, I don't want to pick it.
Laura: I want to use a stick, and oh! Here, Scanlan, you were going to knock.
Sam: (chuckles) What is this stick?
Laura: So that you don't have to touch the door in case it's magic.
Matt: Which as a note, the door, at full height, is about at the shoulders of most of you. You recognize this. This is definitely a homestead built on the scale for probably halfling or gnome. It's still pretty big for a gnomish home, meaning it's a little more spacious headroom, you'd probably be able to stand in comfortably, except for you, Grog, you're probably a little hunched.
Liam: So it's like an ostentatious gnome door. Little more than is needed.
Sam: Like me. I'll just rap on the door with my knuckles.
Matt: Okay. There is an awkward pause.
Sam: Hello? Bidet?
Matt: Darin, if you want to go ahead onto the stage, please. (cheering)
Laura: I'm glad he didn't murder us with his bear traps.
Sam: You need this? Oh, you need this. Oh! I've been goosed.
Liam: Hey, chaotic evil necromancer gnome.
Matt: You weren't supposed to tell them.
Darin: I didn't.
Matt: So you hear amongst your business for the day, out of nowhere (knocking) on the door.
Sam: Kaitiaki!
Darin: I open it.
Matt: Okay, you hear (clicking) what sounds like six or seven different locks unlock on the door, as it slowly swings open, and before them what do they see?
Darin: A very small, elderly gnome, bald on top, with a long white beard, and a bit of a distant look in his eyes, and he looks at you and says, are you real?
Laura: I think so.
Darin: You're real? Prove it! Say that you're real to my invisible frog companion.
Sam: I will step forward and say, hello, there. (whispers) I'm real.
Darin: Yes, you're real. There is no invisible frog companion. The voices in my head would not have spoken to that. (stuttering) They know a little bit better than that, but that doesn't matter, I haven't had people here in over 35 years. (laughs) But you're here! And you're real! Go away. (laughter)
Darin: Demistrik, show them out.
Matt: You watch as two tiny red claws come around the corner as these tiny, impish wings unfurl. You watch as a tiny imp releases from the edge of the doorframe. (wings beating) "Get out!" (door slamming) and slams the door.
Darin: And show yourself out, Demistrik. I don't need you here, 19 years of you is more than enough.
Matt: You hear muffling argument through the door as the voice goes, "I'll stay where I damn please. You gave me permission to stay. If anyone is going to leave, you're going to leave!"
Darin: I think you should go to Kraghammer and become a circus performer with a little tin cup and a little hat and say, "Oh dear, I am Demistrik, the magical imp." That's where you belong, I tell you right now.
Matt: "Sounds like a lot more fun than having to deal with you on a daily basis, you son of a--"
Darin: (offended cry) Language, imp!
Matt: The door creaks open once more. "Sorry." (door closing)
Darin: The door creaks open again. I'm sorry, as well. (whispering) For him, he's awful.
Liam: I stick my foot in!
Darin: No! (laughter)
Liam: I'm really very sorry to bother you, although I'm delighted to make your acquaintance. I'm having a very hard time not just smiling like an idiot. Could we trouble you just for a few moments? We mean no harm at all. We do need to talk to you. We've come a very long way... as farts. That's got to count for something.
Laura: (sing-songy) We could give you some interesting conversation. 35 years is a very long time.
Liam: We've done a lot, we've seen a lot, we could tell you all about it.
Sam: I play an old, traditional gnome song to soften him a bit.
Matt: Make a performance check.
Laura: What is an old gnome song?
Sam: I don't know. (laughter)
Sam: 24.
Matt: It's been a long time since you've heard music, let alone one that scratches an old memory of childhood. It's nice.
Taliesin: It's more or less whatever strikes your fancy, to be fair.
All: (humming Going to the Chapel)
Matt: You see the imp in the back going, "Ugh! Stop that racket!"
Darin: You don't even appreciate music. What would an imp song sound like? You can't say one, can you? Because you don't have music where you're from.
Matt: "I can, but it'll cause your ears to bleed! It sounds like this." (screeching)
Darin: I find that very entertaining.
Matt: "You're such a liar!" The imp (poof) vanishes before you.
Darin: He's gone. Don't worry about him. He gets a little bit... testy, if you will.
Sam: May we speak? May we have a moment of your time?
Darin: Oh, well... Very well. You can come in if you like. Oh! Be careful, there's illusions and thingamabobbers.
Liam: (stammers) Sorry, that's infectious. We have a really big guy. Are you all right with him coming in? Grog, are you all right with coming in?
Travis: How the fuck do I get in that damn door?
Liam: Have you not crawled on all fours before?
Taliesin: You should try it if you haven't; it's quite delightful.
Travis: Are you lying?
Taliesin: No. For once, no, I'm not.
Travis: Can I do an insight check on Percy?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: 19.
Taliesin: I have never actually been quite so honest in my entire life. I think you'll find it very therapeutic.
Travis: I roll in on all fours.
Taliesin: How does it feel?
Travis: I'm waiting for it to kick in.
Taliesin: Crawl forward, back a bit, stretch, downward dog, stretch.
Matt: You watch as this large, gray-skinned mountain of a man crawls his way in. You could duck-walk through if you really wanted to. This is worse than Gandalf in Bag End. All fours is probably the most comfortable means of transport through the house. But you walk in and immediately, you watch as your new gnomish friend is going around and quickly disabling small things, putting small keys and tying off strings and wires you saw that were set up around portions of the room.
Taliesin: I am going to try and map this in my head, the crazy stuff I'm seeing right now.
Matt: This place is a hoarder's den. You see shelves and shelves of books and papers and scrolls and stacks of them. You see on bits of furniture and chairs more stacks of books and sacks and satchels and quills and inkwells. Some spilled and left and dried long ago. This place is very lived-in, very chaotic, and very unique.
Liam: The first thing that I do as we come in is I scan the room, or rooms, for more Macaulay Culkin shenanigans.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Maculkins. I think we can just call them Maculkins now.
Liam: That is a 21.
Matt: Okay. You do see there's one portion of the floor that he keeps avoiding, instinctually, that catches your attention. You're like, "why does he keep walking around that?"
Marisha: What's your name, friend?
Darin: Oh, well, that was taken from me a very long time ago. I only have what they call me. You know, names are an odd thing, aren't they? Sometimes a name can stick to you like blood on a knife or your fingers on a wallet that might not be your property, and then who you were is not who you are and yet... here we are.
Marisha: That oddly made way too much sense.
Sam: What do they call you?
Darin: They call me Sprigg. There's more. They call me Sprigg the Obnoxious.
Sam: Sprigg the Obnoxious?
Darin: Yes. It's not my given name; it was a name that was given to me when it was given to me.
Liam: Did you used to be obnoxious? Because I'm not picking that up.
Darin: Oh. We're rarely who we used to be.
Taliesin: Is there mercury in those pools? (laughter)
Darin: Who? Is that a friend of yours?
Taliesin: I sometimes will talk to the fourth wall. It's a thing; ignore it.
Darin: It's a domicile. There has to be four walls. If there weren't, it would be a yurt. I don't live in a yurt, dear boy.
Marisha: I sometimes live in a yurt. They're quite nice.
Darin: I have nothing against yurts. (laughs) Like a stick that you would put in a yurt so it wouldn't fall over. I would want it to fall over, therefore, I have nothing against yurts. (wheezing laughter) Demistrik!
Matt: The imp just appears across the room and just goes, "Good one. That was-- I am so sorry."
Laura: Pike? Do you think maybe a Greater Restoration is in order?
Matt: Pike goes, "Why?"
Laura: No reason.
Matt: "Could I just touch your hand for a second? Is that okay?"
Darin: (stuttering) Why?
Matt: "Just to see if we can help your day."
Darin: Do you not think that I'm real?
Matt: "Probably not."
Darin: I assure you, I'm real. I'm here. My companions are long gone. They were like you, like you, like you, and you, and you, and I'm all that is left. You are looking into a mirror of your future.
Sam: I'm going to look like you, or you're going to look like me?
Marisha: No, I know what he means. Who were your companions?
Darin: Memories. They're all memories now. I don't even remember their names. I remember some of them, but we were heroes and now I am here.
Marisha: Oh no.
Liam: Were there no other gnome folk in your party?
Darin: No, there was one like you, there was a big one, a mighty one. There was one like you, brave and kind.
Laura: That's like me! That's exactly like me.
Darin: There was one like you. Smart, yet sad. And you, as well. Yeah, and I was you.
Matt: Pike goes, "Please?" She grabs your hand and concentrates for a second, you watch as the holy symbol flares for a moment and the warmth passes through her arms into your hand. And it feels nice. It's like holding a freshly heated cup of tea. And as the spell completes and she pulls back. "That's all. Thank you."
Darin: Thank you, very kind of you. Don't ever do that again.
Matt: "Right, okay. Okay."
Sam: Your companions. Not to bring up sad times. How long ago did they go away? Perish?
Darin: 37 years.
Sam: And how, was it in a fight?
Darin: Oh, yes.
Sam: Against a powerful entity?
Darin: Oh no. Against ignorance, against bravery that should never have been. And that's why I'm here and they're not, because I ran, you see. I'm your future. You'll all be gone. You and you and you and you and you, and you'll be left.
Liam: While listening to all that, Vax slid his hand into Keyleth's and quietly listened to the whole thing.
Darin: Oh, well. Perhaps we should talk of other things. Should we?
Sam: Yes. Yes, we want this to be a positive visit for you, so is there anything we can tell you from the world outside that you might be curious about?
Darin: The world outside? Who needs the world outside? I have everything here, and what I need, dear boy, I have taken from Kraghammer. All these books over there, you see, those are mine. They should have been mine to begin with, and I took them, and now they are mine. (wheezing laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to peruse some of these titles, quietly.
Sam: The books, you mean?
Darin: Yes. You'd like to look at the books, would you?
Taliesin: I find it's the easiest way to learn quite a bit about a person.
Darin: Oh, you're very welcome to look at anything you like. What will you give me, dear boy? I require something. And yet, what do I need, living here? Not much. Intelligence, no. Secrets, no. Love, no. Sadness, bravery, power. What do you have that you would give me?
Travis: I reach in the Bag of Holding. I take out Percy's glasses. Would you care for a pair of these testicl-- spectacles?
Darin: I seek power, dear boy, not silliness. If I wanted silliness, I would talk to a Sun Tree. No one ever should talk to a Sun Tree, they should only listen to a Sun Tree. And so I shall say again, if you would like to peruse my book and perhaps find what you are looking for, what will you give me that would bring power and redemption into my life?
Sam: What do you have, Grog?
Laura: (whispering) Give him some ale.
Travis: But that's not fucking power.
Laura: You don't know. Bet it's been a while since he's had some of that.
Darin: It seems you have powerful items.
Travis: I do. I have these Bracers of Defense.
Darin: Ah, but that is strength. I require power.
Travis: (softly) Shit. Fuck.
Taliesin: Well, I reach into my bag and start cleaning a small green shard of residuum, polishing it.
Darin: Demistrik! If you excuse me for a just-- while you look, I'll just talk to my imp. You'll pardon us. (whispering) A word, Demistrik?
Matt: "Ugh. Just one moment. What?"
Darin: The big one worries me. I think we should have a code in case we have to jump him.
Matt: "What code would you wish?"
Darin: Goliath grab! But we need to remember that. We need to remember that.
Matt: "Goliath grab. Good luck!"
Darin: We need some sort of mnemonic device to remember goliath grab. G, goodness gracious, grab that goliath. O?
Matt: "O? Huh. I'll tell you what, I've got your back."
Darin: I don't feel that at all. You're right in front of me. How could you have my back? (wheezing chuckle) I got you. (laughing) Go away. So what do you have for me? You've had ample time to look in your Bag of Holding to produce something very--
Travis: Powerful. Well, I do have one thing that seems to be pretty powerful.
Marisha: Oh no, Grog.
Travis: I pull out of the Bag of Holding a small leather case. I open the flap. I don't know if you have any interest in this, but my experience with these items has been very extreme. Would you care to take a card?
Darin: Would you care to give them to me?
Sam: All or just one?
Travis: No, you can pick a card.
Matt: Make an arcana check. Roll a d20 and add your arcana skill modifier to it.
Taliesin: You are a madman.
Darin: 15.
Matt: 15. You don't recognize what he's holding in his hands, but you immediately see the leather casing around it, and your essence being able to read certain elements of magic-- It does appear to be a powerful enchantment, whatever he has procured from the bag.
Darin: Indeed. Perhaps one card for one book?
Travis: Yeah, sure. I mean, Percy, do you have a book out of all of these that you want to read?
Darin: What are you looking for? What do you seek? What knowledge? I've got it all here.
Sam: We seek a key.
Laura: To find a very ancient goddess--
Darin: Oh, don't say Ioun.
Taliesin: We're not going to say Ioun.
Darin: You just did!
Liam: Is there another name that you would like us to use? Like a nickname instead of Ioun?
Darin: The Broken Goddess. I know more than Ioun, please! Ioun. Gods, what do they know? We know more than they, for we exist! We live! We adventure! They merely observe. Am I right?
Sam: You have a point. They don't do much for us in the day-to-day.
Taliesin: Are you saying you know more than Ioun?
Darin: Of course I know more than Ioun.
Taliesin: Can you prove that you know more than Ioun?
Darin: Yes.
Taliesin: So if I ask you a question that is almost impossible to answer, you could answer it before Ioun could answer it?
Darin: Could Ioun create a rock so heavy that even she couldn't lift it?
Taliesin: Oh, please. I'm far too clever to ask such a simple question. That's easy. I would have to ask something that was very difficult to answer.
Darin: I will give you your answer if you give me a card.
Liam: You know, I was just saying what a good idea I thought it was, but I thought you were talking about the entire deck, Grog. I think the entire deck is a fairer thing than to have him pull a card, because that seems unpredictable to me.
Travis: Yeah, that sounds perfect to me.
Liam: We're all in a small, enclosed space together, Grog, and I like this fellow.
Laura: Sprigg, it is quite powerful, yes, but also maybe slightly dangerous.
Taliesin: A bit dangerous, to be fair.
Darin: I'm here alone. Well, there's... oh, yes. Go peddle your papers somewhere where they'd like papers peddled!
Laura: You're not alone at the moment.
Darin: That's true!
Laura: This is very true. And I'd rather not put my life in the hands of you, not knowing you very well.
Darin: Some did. I'm here.
Laura: Yes.
Darin: They are not.
Laura: So something bad could happen, and you'd run away, and we'd be stuck here?
Darin: No. 37 years. I ran away. I've been here deciding how to live again, how not to run away. That's what all this is about, isn't it? You can't just hide from the world. I've done it! Done it for a long, long time. Maybe you being here means that I should hide no longer. Or maybe I just have an invisible frog friend. Maybe I have nothing here, and nothing here.
Taliesin: Whoever has devised these contraptions and created this safety for you is a genius. I'm not saying you're necessarily--
Darin: It was both of us.
Taliesin: I somehow don't think so.
Darin: What?
Matt: "It was all me."
Taliesin: I've had my own demons to contend with in my life, to make me doubt my own intelligence. I get the sense that your compatriot-- I hate to call it friend, here--
Darin: I hate to call it friend, and yet I do. Isn't that right, friend?
Matt: "Unfortunately."
Taliesin: What are you doing here?
Darin: You can tell them.
Matt: "No!"
Darin: Just tell him.
Matt: "No! Why, because he asked me?"
Darin: Yes! Be polite. They're guests in our home.
Matt: "Oh, it's not our home."
Darin: 19 years you've been here, ever since your master died trying to enter and got tricked into one of my traps, and now you're here-- does that answer your question?-- now, why don't you tell him what I just said?
Matt: "My master died trying to get in here on one of the traps, and now I call this my home."
Darin: Beautifully said. Bravo. You should be a little performer in Kraghammer. You know what the reviews would be? Not very good! Shameful behavior. Abysmal behavior from the Abyss itself!
Taliesin: We don't have much. Many of the things that we carry are very dangerous. Obviously, you have a great deal of genius here. I'm going to show him the elemental shard. I don't know if this would interest you, but I consider it to be of great value.
Matt: So you're showing him the residuum piece?
Taliesin: The last piece of residuum I have.
Matt: All right. So this is a sliver of what looks like green glass. It's finely polished, about that thick, that long. You've read about this. You've read that condensed residuum is very susceptible to enchantment and/or the focusing of short-term magic spells. It's expensive, it's lauded, it's hard to find.
Darin: I will use that Ring of Telekinesis to lift it up and take a better look at it.
Matt: You watch as it darts out of your hand and wisps up, maybe two feet ahead of him, and slowly rotates above him as he inspects it.
Taliesin: Impressive, but not as impressive as the giant log.
Darin: Oh, yes. But is there power in this, dear boy? Or are there only secrets? For you are secrets. He is power.
Taliesin: I may be secrets, and that is of me, but I believe there is power in its secret. People died for that. Many people.
Darin: People die every day. Except me. That's my punishment, child. I live on. I live on with my shame and my intelligence and you.
Laura: Because of Ioun?
Marisha: What's your relationship to her?
Darin: What is anyone's relationship to a god?
Marisha: Good question.
Laura: Some of us are champions. Some of them don't like them. Some of them worship them but don't really get respect. What's yours?
Darin: All of that and more.
Laura: So you're a champion? Are you a champion of Ioun?
Marisha: You're a champion of Ioun. Of course he's a champion of Ioun.
Darin: I wouldn't say that.
Taliesin: But we might, wouldn't we?
Darin: Champion of Ioun?
Matt: (demonic cackling)
Darin: Are you going to start calling me Ioun's Champion?
Matt: "Only if it bothers you, Ioun's Champion!"
Darin: I like it. Drat, eh? Drat. You tell them what you know of Ioun.
Matt: "She's a heinous bitch who got what's coming to her 800 years ago."
Marisha: What?
Darin: It's a bit common, but that is his belief. What is yours? What is your thought about Ioun?
Sam: We know that she possesses knowledge that could help us in our quest to save the world, and therefore, no matter what her personality is, she is valuable to us.
Darin: And yet, is there value in saving the world? Or should you just let it all go away?
Laura: No, no, I think we should save it.
Sam: Yeah, we're pro-world here.
Darin: Are you? That is interesting.
Liam: Sprigg, you're seeking power.
Darin: I seek redemption. There is great power in redemption.
Liam: We offer you redemption. Collaborating with us grants you the power to fell a would-be god.
Darin: Excuse me. For one second. Can I speak to you for just a second?
Matt: (flapping wings) "What?"
Darin: He's tricky. I think we should get a mnemonic device on what we need to do if he becomes too tricky. We should say, elf boy grab! E! For egads! There's an elf, we should grab him. L! Let's grab that elf boy.
Matt: "Right, all right." You guys can hear all of this.
Darin: F. Forsooth, I shall grab this elf boy!
Liam: I'm not an elf. Not an elf.
Marisha: Why do people like calling you elf boy and elf girl?
Liam: We have vaguely pointed ears. Not even fully pointed ears. My mother was not an elf.
Darin: Just a second. He's not an elf!
Matt: "We'll stick with the device. I've got your back."
Darin: I still don't feel it.
Matt: "You will."
Darin: All right. Hello!
Sam: Hi. Hi, mirror man. Listen.
Darin: All right.
Sam: Let's cut to the chase here. We need information from you.
Darin: Indeed.
Sam: You need something from us. Grog, give him a card.
Marisha: Wait.
Sam: We're dancing around this! We need this man!
Laura: He took the stone! Are you taking the stone?
Sam: Are you going to take the stone as a source of power? He said it's too mysterious.
Liam: I thought we were talking about redemption.
Darin: If you'll allow me. You've been very quiet.
Marisha: Yes, I'm a little freaked out right now. You're my worst fear incarnate. Sorry, that seemed very rude. My worst nightmare incarnate.
Darin: That didn't make it any better, dear child!
Matt: (cackling)
Darin: (shushing) Go ahead. Why am I your worst fear in a carnation?
Marisha: I've seen you in my dreams.
Darin: Hear that?
Matt: "Go get her, tiger."
Laura: Trinket starts chasing the imp around the room.
Matt: "No!" Up into the corner, (hissing). Turns invisible.
Darin: Oh, I guess you found that unbearable!
Sam: That was a good pun.
Matt: You hear the tiniest little demonic fart by your ear.
Liam: I'm also gently steering Trinket away from the floorboard in the middle of the room as he walked by.
Marisha: Somehow everything you have said since the minute we've walked into this building has made 100% sense, and I think that's what scares me the most, is I understand everything you've said.
Darin: It should scare you the most. I was one of you. I did what you did. 37 years ago, I did it. And we fought, and we fought, and they were right here. They were right here!
Sam: Who is they?
Darin: My companions.
Sam: And who were you fighting against? You, we?
Travis: Vecna.
Darin: No.
Sam: Gods?
Darin: It was silly. It was hobgoblins. It should never have happened. It was a simple fight, and they died, and I ran, and I can't even remember their names.
Liam: Sprigg.
Darin: Yes?
Liam: Would you like to be needed again? Maybe it's time to stop running.
Darin: What would I do?
Marisha: We can grant you power in items, but I don't want to speak for all of us, but I think all of us can speak a little bit to the fact that items don't grant you as much inner power as you expect them to.
Laura: Unless they're boots. And then they're amazing.
Marisha: Unless they're very highly argued and debated-upon boots, in which case I still think the argument--
Darin: Are we about to have a debate about boots? I'm against them! Your turn.
Laura: I am for them, usually.
Darin: Continue, Councilor, but watch yourself.
Laura: Have you any idea where the key to Ioun is?
Darin: In the boots? We're talking about boots, are we?
Laura: Yes. Boots that hold a key to Ioun's location. Specifically.
Darin: I think the key might be here, but I don't really know.
Liam: Sprigg, the world is on the brink right now. It's worse than hobgoblins. We've come here in great need, and the world is in great need, and the power that I offer you is making a difference.
Darin: Then make me believe in Ioun. We'll make a difference together.
Liam: Make you believe?
Marisha: Of course he believes. Believing is not the question.
Darin: Books everywhere, you see. That's something you can hold. That's something you can learn.
Marisha: That's something that's tangible. Ioun is distant.
Laura: But she could be tangible if you'd help us find her.
Marisha: What if we have found her? What if Sprigg is right? What if all of the information that Ioun knows is here in Sprigg?
Taliesin: I really want to look at these. I want to look at these books really quickly. I'm having a moment. I just want to start looking at these titles. What are these books?
Matt: You go over and start walking towards the edge of the nearest bookcase, and all of you at once-- everyone but Sprigg, actually-- suddenly hear a voice come through, filling your mind, filling your consciousness, filling your ears. Sourceless, delivered to your consciousness directly. "Thank you for showing me where he is." And that's where we're going to take a break.
Liam: Fuck!
Marisha: How? We don't have the eye! What a cock!
Taliesin: Oh my god, he's been in the troll dick all along.
Marisha: It's always been the troll dick.
Matt: All right, we'll be in just a minute. We'll be back here in a few minutes, guys. For the Twitch giveaway, we have this awesome Peruvian walnut dice tray, leather interior. It's very nice. It's the same type that I have, actually, back here, which is nice. Giving it away for somebody in the Twitch chat, so run on over, and the code for the evening is Sprigg. S-P-R-I...
Darin: G-G.
Matt: G-G. Double G.
Darin: S-P-R-I-G-G spells Sprigg, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to win that valuable prize.
Matt: So pay attention in the chat. When it's time to, go ahead and enter Sprigg into the chat, and one lucky winner will be announced when we get back here. See you guys in a few minutes! [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. All right, so first and foremost, we have our winner for the dice tray from Wyrmwood. That is our friend k0sn1ght, spelled in the way that you spell your XBox Live name: k0sn1ght. Congratulations, you are the winner. Go ahead and contact Danoba and get your information and we'll get that shipped out to you. Bringing us back in.
Taliesin: That was fast.
Matt: Last we left off, you all, almost all of you, heard a singular familiar voice. The low, gravelly undead voice of The Whispered One fills your minds, saying, "Thank you for showing me where he is." In that moment where you all pause in place, you hear a series of simultaneous sounds (arrows firing) as a number of heavy crossbow bolts from nearby windows all fire simultaneously at Sprigg.
Marisha: Do I have time for a reaction?
Matt: No, you do not. This is a surprise round.
Liam: This is the sound of bolts, no.
Travis: It's all right, he can't die. It's cool. We're all right.
Matt: So that first one is a 24. What's your armor class?
Darin: My armor class is 19.
Matt: Okay! So you take 23 points of piercing damage.
Darin: Okay. Oh, there we go.
Matt: That's 17. That misses you. It strikes your shoulder and glances off. One bolt sinks into your chest and you look down and you see it's this big, long heavy metal bolt and it's jutting out from the side of where your shoulder and pec is. Another one rushes by and glances off your other shoulder. The third one--
Darin: Well, this is different.
Matt: That hits. That's a 25. That's 23 points of piercing damage.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Matt: That one actually misses; a six and a one. It slams into one of the nearby books right behind you, barely moving past your cheek. Fifth one, that is a 19 exactly, so you take 24 points of damage.
Laura: How many fucking bolts are there?
Marisha: 24?
Matt: They're all sneak attack. And that is 20.
Darin: Another one?
Matt: Another one.
Darin: Okay.
Matt: That one's going to be 26 points of piercing damage.
Darin: I'm gone.
Matt: You guys watch as all these bolts (arrows firing and impacting) into Sprigg's body and Sprigg falls back, unconscious on the side of the room. I'm going to bring out a map now.
Darin: Fly, you fools!
Marisha: (yelling) No, Sprigg!
Sam: Darin, it was really great having you on. Thanks so much.
Laura: Whoa, cool!
Sam: Whoa, this is a cute house!
Laura: Oh, I can't see inside of it.
Matt: Moving the top floor off.
Liam: There's crates of apples!
Sam: There's a sack of something in the corner! Oh my god, how are we all going to fit in there?
Matt: Sprigg is currently unconscious on the ground there. Percival was there talking. Trinket is off to the side.
Laura: Trinket! Where's the imp?
Matt: The imp is not currently visible. Pike would be over on the side here. Keyleth, Vax, where would you guys see yourselves right now? Actually, tell me where you would be. I think that's what I'm trying to ask.
Liam: I would be right next to Keyleth because I was holding her hand.
Matt: As I chuck you onto the ground.
Liam: It's all right. It's fine.
Matt: Yeah, comes back in a day later. All right, cool. So you're there holding that. Scanlan, where would you be?
Sam: Near Sprigg-ish.
Matt: All right, so I'll put you right there next to the scroll in the ground.
Liam: And Matt? Could you touch on the map where the bad man touched you? No, where the bad floorboard is?
Matt: Yes, actually, I can do that.
Liam: None of you know this.
Matt: None of you know this, except for you, which is actually why I'm not going to show you. You know how to avoid it, but nobody else knows where it is.
Laura: Where is the front door?
Matt: The front door is right there.
Liam: There, over by Grog on your right.
Sam: These trees need to move.
Laura: I know, these trees are a pain in our butts. Oh no.
Sam: There's cloaked men everywhere
Matt: You watch as one that was up in the stairs vanishes up top.
Travis: Oh, he actually made it upstairs?
Matt: He fired, and then ducked up there. I need everyone to roll initiative.
Sam: Initiative?
Matt: Yes. Including you, even though you're on the ground.
Marisha: Don't. Fuck. Me. Gil. It's fine. Gil did all right.
Sam: I don't trust Gil. I never roll on his dice.
Liam: Rarely. I have, but I got my Matt Colville meteorite.
Matt: 25 to 20?
Taliesin: 23.
Liam: 20.
Travis: 22.
Matt: Oh wow, so we have Percy, we have Grog, and Vax. Okay, 20 to 15?
Sam: 19.
Laura: Should somebody roll for Pike?
Matt: Yes, actually. Okay, yeah.
Darin: Also a 19.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: You've got a very low initiative bonus.
Matt: All righty, anybody else?
Laura: 13.
Marisha: 12. I don't know why I did deuces. 12.
Taliesin: Peace out.
Sam: NKOTB.
Marisha: 12 initiative, Wu Tang out.
Taliesin: That's our next shirt.
Sam: Quidd, everyone. Quidd.
Laura: Quidd.
Liam: Quid pro quo.
Matt: All right, so top of the combat round. The surprise round is done, you watch Sprigg fall to the ground, bolts sticking out of the side of the neck, the shoulder, and the body. Unconscious, now beginning to pool blood underneath where he's bleeding out, and you glance around and you see a series of shaded figures in the windows that all dart out of the way.
Marisha: Cowards.
Laura: Dicks.
Sam: Oh, they left. The fight's over, everyone.
Matt: Percy, you're up first.
Taliesin: Wow, this is a lot that happened. I'm going to click my boots, and I'm going to run up the wall and run upstairs.
Matt: Which, for the purposes of this, I will place the upstairs over here. So as you dart up, Percival, you run up the stairway there where the one guy you saw was standing.
Taliesin: Is he right there?
Matt: Yeah, he ducked out of the way, and there's also one figure that you recognize from the Shadowfell earlier. You see one of the ghastly creatures that was darting through the ruins leaping from from rooftop to rooftop. Its skin is grayish and long, its limbs lanky, its fingers curled into claws, and this long tongue dangling from his jaws, it's getting ready to run down the stairs as you charge him, and it goes (growls).
Taliesin: Manners! Action Surge!
Marisha: Yay, Manners!
Matt: Okay then.
Marisha: We're bad at manners, until now!
Matt: All righty, so what's the saving throw on that one?
Taliesin: It's a DC 20 strength. Oh, I'm sorry, no. Never mind. It's an attack roll.
Matt: Okay, so you have to roll first to see if you hit it.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18? Yeah, that definitely hits. It hits, and you watch as you pull the sphere out and chuck it in the direction of the creature. Pulls its claws back, slams into its chest, and then unravels. It falls to the ground, prone, unable to move, right there in the middle of the floor.
Taliesin: Just making sure that I can do this.
Matt: Was that your action, there, doing that?
Taliesin: That was my action surge. I can only do one round. Just seeing if I have anything at a bonus that I can do.
Matt: You spent your action--?
Taliesin: My action, I activated my boots. My action surge activating that. Do I have anything I can do with a bonus action?
Matt: Not really.
Taliesin: I'm going to turn to the other guy and pull the ripcord on the glove angrily. (revving)
Matt: You load up Diplomacy. Good. That's your turn, Percy. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Me? Oh? Can I go into a rage?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Travis: And he fell where?
Matt: He fell right there, on the ground, currently bleeding out.
Travis: Can I run over to Sprigg and shove a-- should I shove a health potion in his throat?
Laura: Well, we've got healers.
Travis: Right. I'll run upstairs to see where Percy went.
Matt: You rage-run just past Percival and you see there's one creature bound on the ground and there's another guy who's there with his crossbow, he's trying to reload, who sees Percival and is getting ready to pull it up as you leap in front.
Taliesin: Smash him!
Travis: Do you mind?
Taliesin: Please!
Travis: Yeah. (rage noises)
Matt: Go for it. Roll for a double attack.
Travis: Reckless! Not Great Weapon Master. Two-handed with the Dwarven Thrower. That's a lot. 30, minus-- oh, there is no minus. 32.
Matt: 32 hits. Second attack?
Travis: 31.
Matt: Hits. Go ahead and roll damage for both.
Travis: So they're not giants. So I just roll a d10. That's a ten. Rage damage. 25.
Matt: 25 damage on the first hit?
Travis: On the first one. Second one.
Laura: 24.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Nice. With your hammer, two hands, whack right across the side of its head. You see the jaw unhinge from the side. As he pulls back, it's hanging loosely there, and the second hit you clock right in the side of the temple, and it nearly goes unconscious, and picks itself up again, gets its crossbow ready. It's still holding. It's not down yet, but it's hurt badly. You can see now, up close, you can see these figures, they're dressed in very, very tight black leathers, cloaks enshrouding their body, the hood is still up, but you've knocked it back. There you see a human male in his late 40s, early 50s, the head shaved completely bald, a tattoo of black tendrils around the left eye, and the left eye is missing from the socket.
Travis: Black tendrils? Okay, cool. That's my turn.
Matt: That's your turn. All right. Grog's done. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, let's talk this out. Click the Boots of Haste. I think, with 120 feet of movement, I can blur up the stairs to where Percy is in probably 50 or 60 feet. And then finish that movement and go past the guy, out the window, with all of my movement in 120 feet or less. Okay, so I'm doing that.
Matt: There's also a window here, a window here, and a window here. Just so you guys know, and a window here, if you wanted.
Liam: Definitely understand. Blur up the stairs, shoot past Percy, shoot past that guy, out the window.
Matt: You're on the balcony now, looking right about here.
Liam: Do I already see those guys?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: 19 plus 14 is a hell of a lot.
Matt: 19 plus 14? Yeah, you do see them. And you glance down, you can see they're hiding amongst bushes, and they're specifically stealthed. But you're keen of eye enough to see where they're placed.
Liam: I stealth, hide. Bonus action to hide. I'm going to use Luck. That's better. 27.
Matt: 27. Okay. You're not sure if they see you or not.
Liam: All right, then from this spot, if they're in range, I'm going to throw Whisper at one of them.
Matt: Right now, you are currently up here. So you glance off and you can barely see one that's over the edge of the roof right there. That's the only one you can see.
Liam: But I can see them and I can ignore three-quarters cover because of Sharpshooter.
Matt: So you barely see the edge of one there. Sharpshooter. I'd say yeah, you can. You can hit both, if you want.
Liam: So the one that I can see, hidden, I will try to throw Whisper. I'm going to hopefully sneak attack him and bamf there. That is a 28.
Matt: 28. He does not see you. So you have advantage on that if you want to roll again.
Liam: Right. Natural 20.
Taliesin: Turn him into paste.
Liam: Okay. (counting)
Sam: Did Pike roll?
Matt: Pike did.
Laura: What did she get?
Matt: 11. Typical Pike.
Marisha: She's after me.
Laura: Well, no, but Sprigg is right after Scanlan. He's before we are. So I'd rather get him up before.
Liam: So that one is 60 on that guy.
Matt: 60 points of damage?
Liam: Yes, and I bamf there.
Matt: As you chuck the dagger, like right towards where the center of the shoulderblades connect in the back he (groans) and you watch as the crossbow that he had drops to the ground and he crumples over on top of it, but he slowly starts getting to his feet out of the bushes. He looks really hurt, but he's still standing. And you appear right next to him there.
Liam: So I did movement, I hid for my bonus, I have action-action as a paladin. And action.
Matt: You have attack-attack as a paladin.
Liam: Attack-attack as a paladin. And then my bonus action. That was the first of attack-attack, so now I'll just do a regular attack, which is a 20--
Laura: (sarcastically) I'm so glad he got those boots back, I'm just so glad.
Liam: 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Liam: That is a ten and I'm going to pump him full of poison. He has to make a DC check on 15.
Matt: That is a seven. No. Four plus three.
Liam: So he also gets, that was ten plus 14 total. 20 total, between the dagger and the poison.
Matt: So the second dagger, you shiv him in the side and he (groans) goes to spin with the heavy crossbow and try and pull away, and as soon as the poison through him he goes, (gurgles) and you can see blood vomit down the front of his chest, his eyes roll back and he twinges and falls to the ground.
Liam: And there's another guy there who can see me, right?
Matt: Yeah, and he's hidden, but he's like (scared, heavy breathing).
Liam: Whisper.
Matt: Okay, he's trying to see that you're not being seen.
Liam: That is 31. Yeah, okay. So that is two plus eight is ten, plus psychic damage. 18. I'm going to bamf there with Whisper.
Matt: Okay. All righty. You hit him and you stand there. You're right in front of him now. All righty. That ends your go. As you appear over on the other side, you realize that over in the clearing there, there is another one of the robed figures, this one clutching a long, black, smooth staff that crooks over in the front that looks like a hand holding an eye.
Marisha: What? Where? Who? There were more of them!
Liam: But you guys don't know that yet.
Matt: You guys don't know that yet, just him. Ending your turn, Vax. That guy on the ground is going to try and break free. That is a 17. DC 20?
Taliesin: DC 20.
Matt: It struggles on the ground and can't seem to break free of the current magic manacles that hold it in place.
Taliesin: Yeah, he's stuck. I love that we have floors!
Matt: Another one of these darts through the window, leaps across the way, right in front of Sprigg, and you being right there, Scanlan, goes, (angry hissing) and lashes out at you.
Marisha: He's going for Sprigg!
Taliesin: He's going for Scanlan.
Marisha: But because Scanlan's over Sprigg!
Taliesin: Oh, that's fair.
Matt: Makes two claw strikes at you. First one is 16 to hit.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: All right. You suffer eight points of slashing damage, and I need you make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: Oh boy. Not great. 16.
Matt: 16, okay.
Sam: Is it magical?
Matt: No, it is not magical, but you feel this pulse of some sort of necrotic disease hit your system, and you just manage to shrug it off. (relieved cheering)
Matt: The other claw comes towards you. That's a natural 20.
Sam: Natural 20 to hit, sure.
Matt: That is 30 points of slashing damage on the second hit. Make another saving throw, please.
Sam: That's 17.
Matt: 17. The second strike hits you and you feel as the side of your torso gets torn out of the side, the blood splatters onto Sprigg, who's already bloodied and now there's gnome blood on gnome blood. As you reach for your side, however, it does not take effect; you manage to shrug off.
Travis: Those are constitution saving throws?
Matt: Yeah. That ends the shadow ghast's turn. Sprigg, I need you to make a death saving throw, please. Roll a d20.
Liam: Come on, Sprigg!
Marisha: Come on, Sprigg!
Darin: 14.
Matt: Okay, so you're okay for now. You're stabilizing. You're not bleeding out, yet. Mark a success on your death saving throws there. Scanlan, what are you doing?
Sam: I am going to, bonus action-- down here, success, one.
Matt: Actually, before he even does that, what are you doing on your turn?
Sam: I'm going to heal him first.
Matt: That roll wouldn't matter because he may heal you before you come up. Don't worry about it.
Sam: I'll bonus action Healing Word him, 2nd-level. I will sing to him. I'll do a little line dance right in front of him and I'll say: (singing) I'll heal your heart, your achy breaky heart. I just don't think you'll understand. That if I heal your heart, your achy breaky heart, you got to wake up and kill a man!
All: Ooh!
Darin: (singing) If only you had used Mage Hand!
Sam: Nice!
Matt: So how much does he heal?
Sam: Seven plus six. 13.
Matt: You heal 13 hit points. That roll doesn't matter. You hear this echoing song in the back of your head. The second song today you've heard from your childhood. You come to consciousness. You wake up and look around you and you can see him singing to you as this giant horrible necrotic creature is looming right in front of you. You have metal bolts sticking out of your chest and an old sensation you haven't felt in a long time courses through your body, which is the need to survive.
Sam: It's my turn still.
Matt: It's both of your turns at the same time.
Sam: I will hold my turn.
Matt: What are you going to do?
Sam: Dimension Door, but I'm holding until either Pike or Keyleth heals him more. And I will also say to him, old man, do you have some fight left in you?
Darin: I hope so.
Sam: Hold that thought for one second.
Darin: Holding.
Matt: So what are you doing?
Darin: There's a bookcase, is there not?
Matt: There's bookcases here, bookcase there. There's books strewn and clustered in these corners.
Darin: I'd like to, if I could, use the Ring of Telekinesis to pull a bookcase down upon an attacker.
Matt: Okay. Currently there's a bunch of books up here on a shelf, you can pull them down on him if you'd like.
Darin: I would like to do that.
Matt: So from the ground, you yank a bunch of heavy tomes off of this large shelf that goes flying towards this creature. I'm going to make this a dexterity saving throw for it.
Marisha: The pen is mightier than the bookcase security!
Matt: What's the DC on the telekinesis ring?
Darin: Where was it? Ring of Telekinesis.
Matt: I'll pull it up here real fast. Looking up magical items really fast. I have it here. Oh, it's for the spell Telekinesis? That's right. What's your spell DC?
Darin: 17.
Matt: 17. No, that's a failure. So for this, go ahead and roll 3d6.
Sam: He failed, or the guy failed?
Matt: The guy failed. He didn't dodge out of the way. He's like, (confused snarling, book impacts) and gets pummeled from behind by a bunch of tomes, books, and random glass baubles that were on the shelf that shatter against the back of its head.
Darin: We have a six, we have a five, and we have a two. 13.
Matt: Then add your intelligence modifier.
Darin: My intelligence modifier is a four.
Matt: 17, nice! 17 points of damage to that one. As you slam it in the back of the head (impacts) and it doubles over and (snarling), its long tongue slashing around. You're still on the ground, and it's over you. Is there anything else you want to do on your turn?
Darin: Demistrik?!
Matt: You hear nothing.
Taliesin: Not cool.
Darin: Can I cast something?
Matt: That is an action to do that, so if you have a bonus action spell, you could do that.
Darin: I believe I do. Tasha's Hideous Laughter?
Matt: I believe that's an action to cast, unfortunately.
Darin: I don't think we have any bonus actions. Oh, are there any healing potions that I can use my Telekinesis to get a healing potion to me?
Matt: You can do that next round. The attack was your one action. You can stand on your feet, if you'd like to.
Darin: No, I'm gonna stay right here.
Matt: Got it. That ends your turn. Now, these guys go again.
Laura: That's good, they're at disadvantage, now, to hit you. They are! Because you're prone.
Matt: This guy's going to move in. This guy is still standing and is going to drop the crossbow and pull out his shortsword. Is going to go ahead and attack you, Grog, first. That is 13?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: And a 27.
Travis: That does hit.
Matt: You take five plus four, that's nine points of slashing damage, reduced to five, yeah. Round down, so it's four. Struck twice, missed both. Both of these guys are going to fire at-- one of them's going to fire at Sprigg on this end because it's their goal, here. With disadvantage, that is a 16? What's your AC again?
Darin: My AC is 19.
Matt: 19, yeah. It darts over you. It misses, it hits the side of the wall. The other guy's going to strike again with disadvantage. That's a 14. And you see the other guy pulling back with a crossbow and fire. You roll out of the way and it (arrow vibrating) into the wooden flooring right next to you.
Darin: Are there any traps that they hit?
Matt: No. That one is going to attack you, Vax, because you're right there in front of it. That's going to be a 13. Does not hit. Second strike, another 13. Both of its shortsword attacks, you duck out of the way and dodge, moving around very quickly. All righty. Those two right there, one of them is going to, because it saw that you got up, Scanlan, they're going to fire two bolts directly at you. That is a 16 to hit?
Sam: That hits.
Matt: Okay, and the second one is a 24.
Sam: Everything hits.
Matt: You are currently in base-to-base with one of their companions, so they both get sneak attack on you. 19 points of piercing damage from the first hit. 24 points of piercing damage from the second hit. And then they both duck around the side here.
Sam: What was the second one? 24.
Matt: They both, we'll say, they vanish from sight. You're not quite sure where they are right now. Those two also duck out of sight, not quite sure where they are, either. That ends their go. Now, the guy in the back right there, who noticed Vax show up, is going to, after you slaughter one of the guys, and stab the other one, is going to angrily go ahead and use Blight on you. Can you go ahead an make a constitution saving throw, please?
Liam: Natural 20. You fucking dick, necro guy!
Matt: All righty. That does half the damage.
Liam: It's still a lot.
Taliesin: I feel like a natural 20 should auto-fail this.
Laura: I know, right?
Matt: 21 points of necrotic damage to you.
Liam: All righty.
Matt: And is going to-- four, five, six. All righty. That ends his turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: I'm going to run over to the window that those guys disappeared from.
Matt: Over this way or this way?
Laura: Right there, yeah. Can I see that motherfucker? Did I see him run past the window?
Matt: You know what? Yes, because he was not stealthing. You watch as he darts by, and you would have a shot, yeah.
Laura: All right, then I'm going to shoot at him. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him!
Matt: All righty, look at that!
Laura: Trinket doesn't have enough movement to get over by him, does he?
Matt: No, but Trinket can attack whatever's in your area, too.
Laura: I'm going to attack him with my Bramble Shot. With the Blazing Bowstring. Ooh, yeah. That's a 31.
Matt: 31? That hits!
Laura: Yes! Okay! Do I get sneak attack on him? I don't, do I?
Matt: No.
Laura: Damn! At least I got Hunter's Mark. Okay.
Liam: Hey Matt, I realized. I never shot out the wings, so I shouldn't have had as much movement as I did, so I think we should take the damage back from my last attack.
Matt: (counting). 50 to get up to the top there, so at your double speed, you'd be at 60, threw the dagger and threw the dagger. You're fine. It still works out.
Laura: Okay, 28 plus my 4d8 piercing damage. That's balls.
Matt: You're on deck, Keyleth, just so you know.
Laura: Seven, nine, plus nine is 37. 37 points of damage.
Matt: The first arrow hits him in the stomach, doubles forward and pulls back. Now, glancing over, saw you rush up and couldn't get out in time and now is going to try and back up as you're taking the second shot.
Laura: Does he roll a DC of over 17? A strength save?
Matt: Rolls a natural 17. Literally. Strength save? Minus one strength modifier. (cheering)
Matt: Oh, silly necromancer. You and your strength of nine. All right, so he is currently entangled in the brambles as the vines wrap around and pull him in, almost near the tree. You see the staff is pulled close to his chest.
Laura: Nice. Then I am going to shoot him. Oh, wait! I didn't add my Blazing Bowstring damage. Eight more for the Blazing Bowstring. And then I'm going to shoot him again. I'm just asking: do you get sneak attack damage if they're restrained?
Matt: You do, yeah. You can do that. You have advantage on the attack, remember, because he's restrained.
Laura: That's okay. Eight plus 14 is what? 32?
Matt: Yeah, that hits.
Laura: Oh gosh! Okay! Ten, 11, 12, 13, plus sneak attack. 13. What's that? Ten. So 23. And then Hunter's Mark. Plus one. 24.
Matt: 24. Nice. The second arrow hits right in the throat, and you can see it doesn't hit anything vital, but you can see blood's starting to pour out. It's one of those things that if he were to pull it out, it would probably be very bad. But he's leaving it in right now. He's looking pretty rough.
Travis: The necromancer is?
Matt: Yeah. All righty. That ends your turn? Keyleth, your turn.
Laura: I'm going to step away from the window.
Matt: Okay. Step away from the window.
Laura: No, against the wall.
Matt: Against the wall there? You push the table back a bit; book almost falls off the top. What's Trinket doing?
Laura: Trinket is going to run over to Sprigg and Scanlan.
Matt: Up to Scanlan, or the guy who's there?
Laura: Just to the guy.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Just try to growl at him and scare him because he can't attack him.
Taliesin: He's technically now engaged with the bear, so if he walks away, the bear gets an attack of opportunity.
Matt: That's true. That ends your turn. Trinket goes (roars) right in front of the creature. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Okay. In my weird, emotional panic, Keyleth is going to turn and look around and she sees Vex firing a bow and Sprigg down on the floor, and she's upset, and she's just going to scream at the top of her lungs and do a Fire Storm around the building. Just (screams) and then I'm going to go (boof) where I think people might be in my rage.
Matt: Okay! So around the building where?
Marisha: Around the building. Sorry, Vax. I don't really know you're there, but around here and around here, and I'm sure I see Vex shooting at things, right? I'm going to try and go around.
Matt: So you have right here.
Marisha: Here, around, and that way.
Matt: All right. Okay, because you didn't see Vax outside.
Marisha: No. He's getting hit.
Matt: You saw Vax run upstairs.
Marisha: I just know there were people shooting through this window and through this window, so I'm doing a perimeter around.
Matt: How many squares is it? Ten, right?
Marisha: Ten ten-by-tens.
Matt: These two here get caught in it, as well as Vax and that guy there.
Laura: What about the magician guy?
Matt: If she's doing a perimeter? No.
Laura: Did you know that I was shooting at somebody?
Matt: She doesn't see the magician. Doesn't know where it is. "The Magician." The Prestige!
Liam: I have evasion.
Matt: Which means it's either half or nothing.
Liam: Right. At advantage because of the boots. What do I have to match?
Matt: Her DC, which is 21, right?
Marisha: 21.
Matt: Dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Oh yeah, way higher than that. We're good.
Matt: Yeah, you take no damage. You duck out of the Fire Storm just in time for it to (raging fire).
Marisha: I need two more d10s.
Liam: Yeah, dexterity save, man. Area effect.
Taliesin: Smoky d10 and spiky d10. And you get rerolls!
Marisha: I reroll ones. None of these are ones, unfortunately. (counting)
Darin: I just noticed the little lanterns glowing. Bravo!
Matt: Oh! Bravo to Dwarven Forge, man.
Sam: Well, it's your house.
Matt: True. Good torches you have in there.
Travis: Way to be energy-conscious with those LEDs!
Marisha: 39 fire damage.
Matt: 39 damage. This guy incinerates. He screams and burns. He manages to dodge partway out, but even the partial damage burns him and he (screams). You see him run off into the forest ten or so steps, on fire, like a stun man shot in a movie before he (impact) on the ground and smolders there in the distance. Those guys take it. What was the amount again?
Marisha: 39, and they're on fire.
Taliesin: It's hard to stealth when you're on fire.
Matt: They're both on fire.
Marisha: So that was my action. I'm going to do that out of my staff as I slam it down. I'm going to look at Sprigg and say: gods damn it, Sprigg! And I'm going to use that as my Healing Word, and I'm going to cast Healing Word at second level. Which is 2d4. 11 points to you. And then I'm going to use my free action that I have to turn into a fire elemental.
Matt: Your free action?
Marisha: Changing into something's not a bonus, it's a free action to change into my beast shape. Circle of the Moon, bitch!
Sam: Did you just call your fiancé--
Travis: -- a bitch?
Marisha: No! Combat wild shape.
Matt: Combat Wild Shape makes it a bonus action, as opposed to an action. That's the difference.
Liam: I would like to retract my "bitch," please.
Marisha: All right, so I'm just Keyleth.
Matt: Does that end your turn? All right, so as Keyleth's turn ends, it comes to Pike's. The entire exterior perimeter of this part of the house is on fire. Flames are now starting to catch. It is dry wood; the entire building is made from wood of the forest, so your home is now in flames.
Marisha: Wait, hang on. No, I'm doing the perimeter. I did think about this, which is why I didn't attack the guy in the house.
Travis: If you napalm the forest, the trees will probably catch fire.
Liam: It's a quick jump, though.
Matt: In order to do the perimeter, it's not a blazing inferno, but it's starting to catch. Flames are starting to lick up the sides.
Liam: End it quick, we can save it.
Matt: Fire Storm's a dangerous spell.
Laura: Let's try to save those books before they all burn.
Sam: He's an old guy. We were either going to kill him or burn his house down.
Matt: It's Vox Machina's MO, man!
Sam: It was always going to end this way.
Taliesin: Things you own end up owning you.
Darin: So glad I wore a jacket.
Matt: Pike is going to rush forward and is also going to attempt to Healing Word you at level two. It's a heal fountain on you. That is six plus five. That's 11 hit points you heal.
Sam: As soon as she does that, I grab him and we Dimension Door out the house.
Matt: Where do you Dimension Door?
Sam: To the only place I know  front of the house. Outside the front door. Not right outside, but towards the edge of the map there.
Matt: Over here?
Sam: Yeah, anywhere around there, on approach to the house.
Travis: Or do you want to be more over yonder?
Sam: Where's the front door to the house?
Marisha: Right there.
Sam: So I'd be 20 feet, the way we approached to the house. So where you got it, if that's the way we approached.
Matt: You guys approached this direction. So you're there. Make a perception check, Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. Ten.
Matt: Okay. You don't see the two hidden fellows over here. You see something large and hulking moving through the forest this direction, at a quick glance.
Sam: Is it naked?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Then we're going to be okay.
Matt: You guys have pulled out of that house. You're still on the ground and all of a sudden your body physically shifts, and you're looking up at the trees. You glance around and you can see the back of your house, you can hear the frantic fray going on. You see the necromancer who's currently covered in brambles and held in place. You see a couple of guys on fire, on the side screaming on the side of the house, and your house starting to catch fire. That's okay. Pike, on her turn, is going to--
Marisha: Keyleth has anger issues. It's fine.
Matt: Because it's a single target...
Sam: It's the "This is fine" meme, except it's just Keyleth.
Matt: She's going to cast a level five Guiding Bolt because that's what Pike does. So ranged spell attack against that guy. 11 plus-- yeah, that hits. That's a 21. So that is 8d6 radiant damage. Nice. 19.
Laura: Is she doing it to the magician?
Matt: No, this guy right there, in the room.
Sam: He's an illusionist, Laura.
Travis: Is she doing it against Copperfield? Is David Blaine with them?
Matt: So after she heals Sprigg, and Sprigg vanishes, she grabs her holy symbol and goes, "Chill out!" and shoots this giant flashing beam of divine energy that slams into it. You watch as a lot of its flesh burns away from the impact. It's still standing, but it's a shining beacon. The next attack against it has advantage. And then Pike's going to back up with you, Vex, towards the back where the bookcase is and goes, "You smell something?" You now hear, simultaneously, (slow thudding) and watch as the side wall and the back wall explode inward, as splinters of wood and stone (crashing) comes from this wall here--
Laura: Oh no, all of his stuff!
Marisha: So I didn't destroy your house first.
Liam: Flames! Flames, less of a thing.
Taliesin: On the side of the house.
Liam: Flames on the side of the house!
Matt: Two familiar hulking entities come barrelling into the chamber. Remember those giant things you saw walking through the Shadowfell that you barely avoided with the mask?
Marisha: The censer?
Matt: Who has the censer? Not on you right now. You don't carry a fucking giant smoking censer with you!
Laura: Oh, really? I didn't realize it was that big.
Taliesin: I think at that point, I think we put it in the Bag of Holding.
Sam: But you did make a bunch of those herbs.
Marisha: I do have the herbs.
Sam: And there's a shit-ton of shit on fire right now.
Matt: They burst through. (roaring) This big yell echoes through their metal masks. It sounds like this horrible-- imagine a giant vocal scream that's peaking on the audio level against a tinny metallic speaker.
Liam: (Bane voice) Your punishment will be more severe!
Matt: Essentially. This one's going to go after Keyleth. This one's going to make two swipes at Trinket because Trinket's right there. As they barrel through, part of the roof breaks. Guys up top, Percy and Grog, you feel the ground buckle a little bit below you and you drop about two or three inches as the building is starting to lose its physical frame.
Taliesin: Oh god, Grog, what did Keyleth do?
Travis: Thanks, Keyleth. You beat me by one second!
Taliesin: I'm well aware. It was totally worth it.
Marisha: #thanksKeyleth.
Matt: That's one's going to go ahead and do two slam attacks against Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah, I've earned it. Come on!
Matt: That's 23 to hit.
Marisha: Yeah, that hits.
Matt: And that's a 29 to hit.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: That's 20 points of bludgeoning damage from the first hit. And the second one is 30 points of bludgeoning damage. (two slams) And it slams you. The second fist actually pins you up against the wall there, and you feel ribs crack inside your chest and now-- they're both down low in this hulking mass. They're almost wider than they are any other dimension with how they're crouched down and the thickness of their body. They're taking up almost the entirety of the room right now.
Marisha: You said 30 points, right?
Matt: Yes, for the second one.
Marisha: So I'm at 83 points.
Matt: Correct. The other one's going to slam twice into Trinket. Giant fists. That's going to be a 28.
Laura: 28 hits.
Matt: And a 22.
Laura: 22 hits.
Matt: That is five plus six. 11 points of bludgeoning damage to Trinket.
Laura: Halved.
Matt: Halved, correct. And 22 points of bludgeoning damage, halved.
Laura: Okay, so 11 plus six is 27 points.
Matt: That ends their go. We're at the top of the round. Percy, you're upstairs.
Taliesin: Okay, this all happened. That's awkward. That's okay, I know where I am. I'm going to run out onto the balcony really quick.
Marisha: There's room over here.
Travis: That guy's still up there with us, right?
Taliesin: Yeah. I figure you're going to handle him. Grog, take care of these two. What do I see outside on the balcony?
Matt: You see, currently down below-- make a perception check. Actually, you wouldn't even see them from your perspective.
Taliesin: I just rolled a natural 20.
Matt: Right, it's blocking your vision from this side. You do see Scanlan, you see Sprigg who is currently conscious, you see this necromancer who is currently held with brambles, and you see two streaking flames and hear screams on this side of the building.
Taliesin: Weird question, really quickly. Where is that giant log trap?
Matt: Right there.
Taliesin: How much swing does it have? Is it locked all the way over here, or is it hung back there?
Matt: It looks more like a drop.
Taliesin: Oh, so it's a drop on the door. Good to know. In the meantime, I'm going to run on the exterior of the wall, like right over here, if that makes sense. That's going to be my movement. I'm going to take some fun, happy pot shots at these bastards.
Laura: At the necromancer?
Taliesin: At the necromancer! Let's start with that bound necromancer. He's fun.
Liam: With the Vecna eye.
Taliesin: With the Vecna eye. He's bound, so I have advantage to hit him?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to use my Animus gun so I still have a hand open, and I'm also going to burn a point of grit so that I can get him to drop his staff. Here we go with advantage. Oh darn, it was so close. 28.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: That's-- ooh! Fancy. 18 points of damage, four points of psychic damage, and he has to make a strength saving throw or drops his items.
Matt: Oh, don't worry, he drops the staff, because there's not much left of his head. When you hit the arm, the staff's clutching, but you slam it and it hits the side of the head and causes the right side of the face to explode against the tree, the brambles still clutching as it falls limp to the ground, and they crush the body into a small rock of flesh.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Marisha: You get a grit point back, right?
Laura: You get a grit point back, you get a grit point back!
Matt: You just barely see them; they have three-quarters cover. But you have sharpshooter.
Taliesin: Three-quarters cover, what does that mean in this crazy world? I'm going to burn a grit for advantage and shoot one of them.
Matt: The one right furthest on the side there?
Taliesin: Yeah. I'll start there. Let's give it a shot. I love advantage; it's so wonderful. 32. I really should have done extra damage. So that's 1d10 plus six. That hits, obviously. 32 to hit?
Matt: Yeah, that hits. Goodbye, necromancer.
Taliesin: 17 points of damage plus two points of psychic damage.
Matt: How much was that, sorry?
Taliesin: 17 points of damage plus two points of psychic damage.
Matt: Okay. All right, he's still standing. (bullet impact, yelps) He starts looking up to see where the shot came from as the giant bullet wound through the torso and out the back of the shoulder was clean through. You hear him breathing, gasping for breath. (gasping)
Taliesin: I'm going to take another shot at him. I'm going to make this a sharpshooter shot, and again with advantage because that's fun. Here we go. Damn! Almost a crit. That's 29. That hits.
Matt: That hits, yeah. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: 14 points of damage-- I'm sorry, 24 points of damage plus two points of psychic damage.
Matt: He falls to the ground, face first. The second shot hits him in the chest. He just goes down, crumples. His body begins to smolder.
Taliesin: I use my bonus action to reload and stare at the nice person below me.
Matt: That ends Percival's turn. Grog, you're up. You hear, downstairs, the (heavy thudding). There's the guy in front of you who's like, (angry breathing). What are you going to do?
Travis: Can I smash my Titanstone Knuckles together and cast Enlarge on myself?
Matt: You can! And your head goes into the roof! (thudding)
Marisha: We're real sorry about your house.
Darin: It wasn't a house. It was a prison.
Laura: Well, then you're welcome.
Travis: I'm hoping the floor gives.
Matt: The floor gives out. As your head (crashing) into the ceiling (creaking, crashing) it falls out from under you. You come falling down on top of this guy. Rubble falls around. Keyleth, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw. I need Trinket to make a dexterity saving throw. The other shadow ghast fails.
Marisha: Nine.
Laura: 14.
Matt: Trinket, you, and the shadow ghast all take 22 points of bludgeoning damage as the roof caves in over on top. Large part of the upper floor now falls and this guy stumbles and is now prone there. He also takes damage. You take 22 points of bludgeoning damage from falling through the wreckage. Trinket's is halved, yes.
Marisha: Ugh, debris, ugh!
Matt: That kills him. The shadow ghast right here.
Travis: Because he had barely any left.
Matt: Yeah. He's like, "Huh?" (crashing) Gets rained on with rubble, broken, splintered wood and stone.
Travis: The guy in Manners, he fell too, right?
Matt: His part of the ceiling didn't fully collapse. He's just out of the way. He's dangling off the edge right now, as he shakes, it's making its way towards the hole. The whole ceiling didn't collapse, just the area right below.
Travis: Beautiful. Can I take Tweedledee to my right and make two reckless attacks against him? They're not giants, right?
Matt: No, they're not giants. They're considered undead.
Travis: They're considered undead. 30 to hit. And the second one.
Matt: Big targets.
Travis: 29.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: So ten. 24 points. Plus the Enlarge-- 25.
Matt: 25 with the first hit. (whack)
Travis: 22 with the second one.
Matt: 22 damage on the second hit. (whacks) You're hitting him. Laying on its back, it has these metal spikes jamming out of its flesh. You can see portions of other creatures that it had slain that have been jammed on these spikes and rotted away on its armor. So as you're hitting it, you're knocking away parts of partially decomposed creatures that previously fell in battle to one of these creatures. As you're slamming into it, you can see it's just rippling, partially decayed muscle that seems to be unnaturally strengthened by whatever necrotic energy keeps it stitched together and alive. It's a thick sack of hit points.
Travis: Wow. Cool. Good to know.
Matt: Is that your turn; are you doing anything else?
Travis: That's interesting. I'm going to go into a frenzied rage as my bonus action.
Matt: Okay, and that's the end of your turn? Okay. End of Grog's turn. Vax, you're up. You heard all this go on and now the whole building is starting to catch fire.
Liam: I'm going to bolt to that window.
Matt: Right there?
Liam: No, other way. So I have a view of Keyleth, the creature, and Grog. I'm going to throw Whisper-- I've got sharpshooter-- at that thing, and bamf there.
Matt: I will say, at proximity to the flames that are starting to catch, you do take three points of fire damage.
Liam: Fine.
Matt: You threw the dagger at the big guy?
Liam: Whisper goes to the window at that guy there.
Matt: Go ahead and roll an attack.
Liam: And it's flanking, right? Because of where Grog is, or Keyleth?
Matt: It's not flanking, but you get to add sneak attack modifier.
Liam: Okay. Yeah, that's fine. That's 32.
Matt: Yeah, that hits. So you appear next to it.
Liam: Three plus psychic damage is four plus this junk. (counting) 33, doubled to 66 plus psychic damage is 74. Bamf there.
Matt: And you appear next to it. As the dagger sinks into its torso, you watch as its chest muscles and the iron cage-like armor around it seems to swallow the dagger. As it goes inside, you watch as some of the muscles all of a sudden (squelch) fall off of its body, like whatever energy's holding it together is untethered and this weird, fleshy, stitched-together creature is starting to fall apart. It's looking pretty hurt.
Liam: Okay, so here's what I wanted to do. So movement-- and I have action-action, action, action-- action-action, action, bonus action.
Travis: (repeating) Action, action--
Laura: (repeating) Action, action--
Marisha: (repeating) Action, action--
Liam: Guys, it's the rules in the book! You can bust my balls all you want--
Matt: Well, that's your first attack, so you have your second attack.
Liam: So action-action for my regular attack, right?
Matt: Attack-attack!
Liam: It's just semantics. Attack-attack, hasted action, bonus action. So that was the first of my attack-attacks. And here's the second one.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 30.
Matt: Well, we have dagger, dagger, dagger. Now we have attack, attack, attack, attack, attack, attack as our next t-shirt. (laughter)
Liam: I'm dumping a level two Smite into this, against an undead. That's seven, 10, 11. Ooh, it's cocked. 17 for that hit.
Matt: 17 with the additional--?
Liam: With attack-attack.
Matt: Right. Well, but you said you dumped Divine Smite into that?
Liam: Into that one.
Matt: You did the additional damage for it being undead? Okay, so that was how much total?
Liam: Whatever I just said. It was like 16.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17. 17 will do it, actually. So as you rush in with the second dagger, you jam up into the same space where it's falling apart, and you hear this dull (shockwave sound) on the inside as the divine energy radiates from the strike and its body (slurping) sloughs off of the bones and around your arm. It slowly falls around your arm like old gelatin and (slurping) slips into the ground, covering the floor around you.
Liam: Okay, I'm going to do the old crouch. Not that she needs it, but crouch in front of Keyleth. And then I have my hasted action for an attack and bonus action for an attack into the other one. 29, and the second one is higher than 29. I'm going to dump Smite into it. Three-- you're making me mess up the math, Laura!
Laura: Psychic damage.
Liam: (laughing) I can't keep track of the math!
Matt: (singing) Epic-level DND!
Liam: 25 on that towards that guy, with Smite added. And then the last dagger, with Smite, at level one, is two plus is 10, 14, 19.
Matt: 19, okay.
Liam: I dumped a ton of Smite into that.
Matt: You didn't add your modifier to the third strike, right?
Liam: I don't know, so why don't you just minus six? 19, so we'll call it 13. Some people might have been catcalling me while I was trying to do math.
Matt: That's okay. No worries. You hit with the two final strikes. They blast into it. You watch as some of the armor gets thrown off its body. It takes a little hit, but the other creature looks like it's largely all right. That finishes Vax's turn.
Liam: Let me enjoy my last two months of life!
Matt: Shadow ghast. What's the DC on the sphere again?
Sam: 20.
Matt: Is it 20? 19. He can't escape from this freaking sphere. The shadow ghast is up on the second floor going (growling). Manners, man. All right. Scanlan and Sprigg, what do you guys want to do?
Darin: I have a question. The gentleman who had an arrow in his throat: he's gone, right? He's been blown apart.
Matt: Yeah. Actually, make a perception check.
Darin: Okay. That's a d20, isn't it?
Matt: Yep, d20 and then add your perception modifier.
Darin: Got it. That's a 17.
Matt: A 17, okay. You glance over and you see two guys who are hiding amongst the bushes on the side there.
Darin: Now, it's too far away to cast a spell.
Matt: No, depending on the spell's range, depending on what you want to do.
Darin: Tasha's Hideous Laughter.
Matt: That we can do.
Marisha: That's such a good spell.
Matt: It's a fun one. So bringing up Tasha's here, looking at the range. There we go. It's a 30-feet range, so you want to get up and get a little closer, probably.
Darin: I will do that, if I could.
Matt: All right, so that's half your movement, and you can move two more spaces. You can hit one guy. So one guy of these two you can select.
Darin: The first one.
Matt: That one there? All righty.
Darin: Yes. I think his name is Dave? Roll a perception?
Matt: Make a saving throw, a wisdom save. That is a ten! Your spell DC is a 17. You watch as the guy there who has his crossbow out and sees you get up, spins around, has this giant, heavy crossbow, the bolt very recognizable because you still have three of them in your body. Aims it towards you and then suddenly (maniacal laughter) and drops the crossbow to the ground and doubles over laughing, falling to the ground and is now kicking and laughing like a hyena right now, unable to do anything.
Darin: Knock knock!
Matt: (maniacal laughter)
Darin: Right! (laughter)
Matt: All right, is that your turn?
Darin: Yes, it is.
Matt: All right.
Sam: There's another guy over there? Have I seen him yet?
Matt: You haven't, actually. You do see this guy's on fire right now, who is still around.
Sam: Oh, I see somebody.
Matt: Yeah, and you can see that hulking figure come running through, and you hear the (explosion) through the back of the building.
Sam: For the beginning of the round, I'll say, guys, I think large giants are coming. Be aware.
Laura: (screaming)
Travis: (screaming)
Sam: What? I can't hear you! Speak clearly!
Liam: Threepio! Where could he be?!
Sam: Okay. Shit. I'll approach the guy I can see burning, on fire. That's where the front door is, right? Is he in front of the front door?
Matt: The log is right up in this area.
Sam: Oh yeah. That. So I'll take out my Wand of Magic Missiles, and I will just take down the rope.
Matt: Okay. You watch as three missiles fire out of the wand and slam into the bits of rope up top. As they explode, it's enough of an impact to cause it, as opposed to fall straight down, just spin and fall. I'm going to go ahead and roll a dice to see which direction it's going to land from its front point. So we'll say inward would be one, two, three, four, five, six. That's a six. So it plummets down, hits the ceiling, scrapes off and slams down onto him. He's going to try and make a dexterity saving throw. That is a seven plus four, nope. That's an 11. Go ahead and roll 4d8 please.
Laura: 4d8?
Darin: Is this Dr. Comedy, who's writhing in laughter?
Matt: I think so. Oh. No, sorry, he's over here. This guy's on fire from her earlier.
Sam: Oh, that's a five. 16.
Matt: 16 points of damage to him.
Sam: That's not a lot.
Laura: You only got 16 on 4d8?
Matt: It's not enough to kill him, but it slams on him and then falls over. You see as both of his flaming hands on the ground going, (groans). He's currently restrained underneath it right there, and on fire.
Darin: Knock knock. (laughter)
Matt: All right, you going to stay where you are?
Sam: No. I'm going to move towards any entrance or window I see. I can't really see over there.
Matt: There's a window here, window here. This one has flames in front of it. This one's available.
Sam: I'll go towards that [no audio] other one.
Matt: Okay. Four, five. That's as far as you can move there. You see the guy on the ground who's laughing in front of you.
Sam: Yeah, no thanks to him. And for a bonus, I guess I will inspire Darin De Paul, or rather, Sprigg.
Liam: Why not both?
Sam: I will sing to him, (singing) You had a bad day, you gettin' knocked down. I sing you a song just to turn it around! You say you don't know, but please don't die. I'll sing you this song and maybe you'll go for a ride. You had a bad day. (speaking) I don't know how that song goes.
Matt: All righty, so you get an inspiration die. You get a d12 that you can use on any sort of skill. You don't have to use it right now, but whenever you use a skill check or an ability check you can add that to it if you want to. There you go.
Darin: Thank you. You know, I had a bad day.
Sam: (singing) You had a bad day. (groaning and laughing)
Matt: All right, so now it's the assassin's turn. Keyleth, how much fire damage does it do when they're on fire? Is it d10?
Marisha: (stuttering) Oh jeez. Fire Storm. Yeah, no. d10.
Matt: Thought so. All right, he takes eight fire damage.
Taliesin: Yay! Under a log.
Matt: Under a log. He's going to try and break free from restraint. Nope, that is a 14. He cannot move that giant tree that's currently crushing him on the ground. He tries to reach out for his crossbow and aim it out towards Sprigg with one hand because it's still loaded. But he has super disadvantage on this strike.
Sam: Super disadvantage. Is that in the book?
Matt: It is now.
Laura: That's in the new campaign guide. Super disadvantage. Only when you're stuck under a tree on fire.
Matt: Sure, I'll do all three. All right. Eight, 12, 12. I made him roll super disadvantage. What does this remind me of? Like a terrible old sci-fi movie where the bad guy's on the ground with the gun trying to aim it at the hero with his final shot and the hero just walks up and steps on the gun. You (whoosh) sidestep the bolt as it fires. Nothing on you.
Darin: Of course.
Matt: The crossbow drops, (grunting).
Darin: Knock knock.
Matt: (crying) On fire. All righty, that ends his turn.
Darin: (whispering) Comedy comes in threes.
Matt: This guy back here is going to go ahead and since you're the one who has his friend writhing on the ground, is going to go ahead and try to shoot you with his crossbow. You do see him, although he's unaware of that, so he thinks it's a sneak attack shot. That is a 14.
Taliesin: You got to get better cultists, man.
Matt: I know, seriously. They come in large numbers, so yeah. This one just (impact sound) hits the tree to your left. His aim's off.
Travis: He's missing an eye. His depth perception sucks.
Matt: Exactly. And he goes ahead and darts behind this building there, vanishing.
Sam: Did I see the bolt or any indication that he exists?
Matt: You do. He reveals himself when he fires. So you watched him come out of the bushes and (whoosh) fire and then duck around the side of the building. The guy on the ground is going to try and save against your spell. That is a 13 plus zero. Nope. He's still laughing. He's just on the ground, (laughing). Tears in his eyes now.
Taliesin: I love that spell.
Matt: That's the end of the assassins' turn. Necro's dead. Vex, you're up.
Laura: I'm going to Hunter's Mark the big undead monster in the room. And then I'm going to shoot him! With the Blazing Bowstring!
Taliesin: Be careful. You might catch the building on fire.
Laura: Oh, but I'm going to use the sharpshooter thing.
Matt: Take minus five and do additional damage? Okay.
Laura: Which I don't know if I should have done that on this particular one. It was 17 to hit.
Matt: 17 is exactly his armor class.
Liam: Yas, Pelor queen! (laughter)
Laura: Five plus eight is 13. Plus sneak attack, because he's got Trinket next to him. 13, 18, 23, sorry! 23 and then lightning damage. 24. 25, 26. And then Blazing Bowstring. God dang! 27.
Matt: Okay, 27. So that's your first strike. (arrow shot) First one just (impact sound) hits in the side and you see the bolt of energy arc out and the flames burn up the arrow. By the way, the wall behind you is starting to get really warm.
Laura: I'm going to move forward. I'm going to actually move toward the corner where Keyleth is.
Matt: There's a guy on the ground there.
Laura: Oh, there is?
Matt: Yeah. So you've got to step over him.
Laura: I'm going to step on him.
Matt: As you move past, he does get a swing with his shortsword at you. Oh, wow. That's a 25.
Laura: Oh, wow. He hits me. Probably because I stepped on him.
Matt: I think so. So you take nine points of slashing damage. Just like, (pain sound) as you're walking past.
Laura: (pain sound) Fuck. Ah, shit. Okay, I'm going to hit the big hulking thing again.
Matt: I realized he had disadvantage, but I rolled another 18, so it's fine.
Laura: Oh, okay, well, yeah. I'm going to do the same thing with the big hulking guy.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 25 to hit.
Matt: 25 hits.
Laura: Oh, I didn't add plus ten to the previous one!
Matt: Because of the sharpshooter, all right. 39 last time. So go ahead and take a swing at it.
Laura: Thanks! 14.
Matt: You're up next, Keyleth.
Laura: 14 plus six is 20.
Sam: Figure out how you're going to ruin Darin's life more.
Marisha: I know. That's my one goal in life. I'm a big old homewrecker.
Laura: I think that's just 32 because I don't get sneak attack again.
Matt: All right. So the second arrow slams into him. It's still holding firm. It's taking the hits and you see parts of its body are starting to spill black liquid out of the wounds and (growls) its red eyes still beaming out from behind the metal mask in front of its face. Its arm swings back and tears some of the ceiling beams out with it. It's looking pretty rickety right now. So that ends your turn?
Laura: I guess so.
Marisha: Is it in a fireproof safe? No? Okay!
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: All right. So I have this big asshole in front of me, yeah? The house is catching on fire, right? Yeah. Nope, she'd still be really upset and really angry. So continuing what I was saying before, she's gonna rage a little bit more and go into her fire elemental self.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Unable to contain her frustration--
Taliesin: This is a good plan.
Matt: You technically entered the space of the guy who's on the ground, becoming a fire elemental, which lights him on fire. (screams)
Marisha: Even more upset. I'm gonna move right in the space of this guy.
Matt: (whoosh) So occupying his space from this side, we'll say. She can catch you guys on fire.
Laura: But she doesn't have to.
Matt: I'll double-check that real fast.
Marisha: I mean, I'm magical.
Taliesin: Sparkle fire.
Marisha: I sparkle fire.
Liam: Also, we can take it.
Taliesin: Yeah, it's fire.
Matt: You know what? It can move through a space as narrow as one inch wide, so I'll say yes, you can maneuver through. Only if you want to, can you set things on fire.
Marisha: I'm going to go into this guy's space, engulf in flames, and do my multi-attack, two slam touch attacks.
Matt: Go for it. He is now in flames.
Marisha: That's cocked. Ooh, that's good, that's good. 21.
Matt: 21, yeah.
Marisha: And 16.
Matt: 16 just misses.
Marisha: Fucking balls. Okay. No, plus six to 11. That's 17.
Matt: That hits. That's what you needed.
Marisha: So both of those hit. 2d6 plus three. First one is eight. Plus ten. 18 fire damage.
Matt: He's looking pretty hurt. As you slam him with both of your flaming hands and claw across his body, where the flame hits, you see it (hissing) singes through the flesh and drags charred remains of where the muscle once was where you dragged your claws through. The body's starting to shake as it's holding its form together.
Marisha: That's all I've got, I think. That's it.
Sam: No. You have action, action, action, action, action. (laughter)
Marisha: Bonus action.
Taliesin: Bonus action.
Laura: Hasted action.
Liam: Send all your complaints to Mike Mearls and Chris Perkins at Wizards of the Coast.
Sam: Matt, not to be a dick, but has anyone stepped on the trap on the floor?
Matt: Actually, you know what, Vax would have avoided it. Because Vax is in the spot where it was, but Vax knew where it was, so Vax would have probably gone over it.
Sam: So cool. You're doing the little splits over it.
Liam: Splitsing. Van Damme-ing it.
Matt: Wait, you wouldn't have, because when you threw the dagger--
Liam: Let's do it.
Matt: It's not a big deal. Thank you for pointing that out.
Sam: But your boots are gone.
Liam: She stole them again? How did you do it?
Matt: You guys glance upward as you hear a (deep swoosh) and up above you in the hole in the ceiling where there once was nothing but air, you see hovering above you a giant beholder just appear. (guttural moan) All of its eyestalks curling around it.
Marisha: What do you mean, it's not a big deal? That's the part that I'm confused about!
Matt: Thank you for that. So that finishes your turn, Keyleth. Pike's turn. Pike sees this--
Liam: If we're retconning that in, I'm retconning (blows raspberry) when I see it.
Darin: Don't get Gargamel angry.
Marisha: Does that mean that Keyleth would have seen the beholder beforehand? You know what, don't worry about it.
Matt: No. You were so angry-- it's in the hole above. You don't quite see where that hole was at the moment, you backed away.
Marisha: Man, so much blind rage.
Matt: So much blind rage. Look guys, that's what we're doing. So anyway, Pike does actually make an insight check, and says, "It's not real. Don't worry about it!"
Laura: Thanks, Pike.
Matt: Fixed. (laughter)
Laura: It's not a big deal, you guys.
Matt: Pike, however, is going to go ahead and make another Guiding Bolt at the large guy there. That's going to be a 20. That hits. That's going to be 4d6. 14 points of radiant damage, which will do it. So you watch as Pike blasts it in the face with the Guiding Bolt. As it hits, the mask gets thrown off, and where the head was beneath it, you see this empty black void with two red burning coals for eyes that blink out as soon as the mask is removed, and the whole body crumples to the ground and turns into a horrible, thick, black-purple ichor.
Laura: I'm going to have nightmares about that.
Sam: For sure.
Matt: The beholder is still upstairs, staying in place going (hoarse screaming). (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, it's that kind of thing.
Taliesin: Brilliant.
Matt: That ends Pike's turn. They're both dead. That brings us back. Percival, it's your turn. There's the one guy on the ground there. One's laughing. We'll say for the purposes of this, for the time, most everything there is not much of a threat at this point. So systematically, the guy on the ground who's hidden by the tree, you can just--
Taliesin: I'm ignoring him. I'm not even gonna deal. I'm just hopping in the window. I'm going to grab my little guy there. I'm going to bring him out to the balcony, and I'm going to unceremoniously toss him out of the house.
Sam: Defenestrated!
Matt: You throw him (thud). He lands.
Taliesin: And then I'm going to jump and I'm going to crawl down the rest of my way and join him outside the house. And try and jump around the fire, dragging him away from the fire.
Matt: Make an athletics check. Sorry, acrobatics check.
Taliesin: Acrobatics? Bless you for an acrobatics check. I'm rerolling that.
Matt: No, it's not a saving throw. You can't do that.
Taliesin: It's not a saving throw. Oh well, that's fine. That's a 16.
Matt: I'll say for the purposes of this--
Taliesin: I had the Spider Climb boots.
Matt: Right, I know. But Spider Climb boots only helps you if you keep on the surface. So as you leap, you manage to land on your feet, but the flames do catch you a bit, so you take six points of fire damage as you start to burn. For the purposes of time on this one, the guy who's currently under the log just burns to death there under the log. Pinned, he's trying to reach for his crossbow, but he's only fired the one bolt that was loaded in it. The guy on the ground is still laughing as you approach him.
Darin: Are there any rocks about?
Matt: Yeah, there's quite a few heavier rocks on the ground.
Darin: Well, I look at him, and I say, "It was a prison, but it was my prison." And I use the Telekinesis ring to lift a rock and drop it on his head.
Matt: (splat) A horrible sickening crack sound. It slams into the head. You lift it up. The laughing has stopped, but he's still moving and you can see the face is broken. The nose is smashed to the side and it's just blood. He's starting to try and get back up.
Darin: Well, tell them that Ethred Brokenbranch sends his regards.
Matt: Do you let him get up?
Darin: Yes.
Matt: He gets up. (grunting)
Sam: I'll Lightning Bolt him as he runs away.
Matt: Okay, we'll say for the purposes of this, he runs off in the distance (footsteps, yelp) and falls to the ground, no longer moving.
Travis: Can I kill the guy on the floor? Can he be mine, please? Can I please smash him? The guy that's lying on the floor in the house, please?
Taliesin: Just sit on him.
Travis: I haven't Gallaghered anybody in a while.
Matt: He's on the ground on fire now, going (frantic gasps) patting out the fire.
Laura: Oh, Grog, put him out!
Matt: He spends his action putting the fire out now, and is like, (frantic gasps).
Marisha: Keyleth takes a few steps back and motions as a fire elemental...
Travis: I skip on in and (gibberish yell).
Matt: He's like, (scream, impact). Just smashed on the ground. Red watermelon.
Laura: Fire's out, I'm assuming.
Marisha: I drop my fire form, turn, see my anger, destruction, get immediately guilty, and then do a Tidal Wave to quell the flames.
Matt: The building is standing, mostly. The whole front of it is blackened. The flames are gone. Most of the interior is destroyed. You have two giant holes in the back. Most of the upper ceiling is ruined. The house is in shambles.
Laura: What about the books?
Matt: A lot of them have been destroyed. Some of the ones on the back wall have been burned. Some of them have been burned by people in flames or made of flame or general black ichor that spilled out. The house is pretty wrecked.
Laura: Can I go over to them and see if I can find some books I think Percy would like?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Sam: I'm running over to see that staff with an eye in it.
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27? Okay. You start glancing through. You find some history books. You find some that relate to local history. You see some books that relate to various types of creatures; some animals and beasts. Many that are encyclopedias of various rivers and it's scattered everywhere. It's just universal knowledge of pretty much anything he can get his hands on. So some of it seems less useful than others but you hand-pick a few out that you think Percy would like.
Travis: I don't mean to ask the obvious question, but how did he know we were here?
Taliesin: No, that's not an obvious question. I have no idea.
Marisha: They have multiple eyes.
Laura: But how? Was he watching us? Is he scrying on us?
Taliesin: Must have.
Laura: Oh, he's fucking scrying on us.
Taliesin: Maybe he can feel you the way you can feel him.
Matt: You get the sense that's not how this works.
Taliesin: Yeah. I don't know.
Marisha: He had another eye, right?
Sam: Does that thing have an eye in it?
Matt: The staff you see? It's a carved eye. It's made of wood and paint. It's ornamental. It's mainly used as a focus, technically acts as a plus-one staff.
Travis: Sprigg. You said this place was a prison. Did you mean that?
Darin: Of course I meant it, boy. I've been there for years.
Travis: Could you leave? If you wanted.
Darin: Of course I can. The prison was more up here than in there.
Travis: Oh. Sorry about the prison, then.
Darin: Why would you be sorry? I asked you for power and redemption. Don't you feel you gave me that? We lived, child. We all lived.
Travis: Yep. Yes. That is indeed what I was hoping for.
Laura: I lean out the window. Hey, Sprigg!
Darin: Hello!
Laura: Hi.
Darin: Hi! How are you? I have some arrows in me at the moment. You like arrows, don't you?
Laura: I do. Come in here, I'll take them off your hands.
Darin: Okay. Question  if you do that, I'd probably die again.
Laura: I'll cure you, darling. Don't worry.
Darin: She called me darling.
Sam: She's the cutest.
Darin: (growls) I go in. (laughter)
Matt: You walk into your destroyed abode, managing to sidestep all the bear traps along the way. You've walked the path many times and you know it and I'm actually surprised none of you walked into any of them. You knew where most of them were, but none of you wandered out far enough into the open to do that. They're all inside. You can see your giant friend, of course, that you were talking to as you walked in is twice the size he was earlier. Previously where you had to hunch, you're now having to almost belly crawl inside the house.
Travis: But why? There's no separation between the first and the second floor.
Matt: So if you stand in that space, you're fine.
Travis: I'm in my space.
Taliesin: I'm going to prop our idiot up in the window so I can go in and keep an eye on him even while I'm inside.
Sam: We have a prisoner?
Taliesin: Yeah. I kept one.
Laura: But he's one of those creepy ghouls that probably doesn't speak.
Matt: And in the last minute or so has not been able to break free but is still trying.
Taliesin: He automatically fails until 24 hours has elapsed.
Matt: After the first failed save?
Taliesin: Any further attempts by the creature automatically fail until 24 hours have elapsed. He ain't going nowhere. It's mean, man.
Laura: Me and Pike can heal him as I take the arrows out.
Matt: Okay.
Darin: At last you've seen the point of me, eh?
Laura: (sarcastic laugh) Sprigg, anything valuable in here that you want to save before we get you out of here?
Darin: Would like my organs! Oh, I would like to save those.
Laura: Yes.
Darin: All right. No. There's nothing.
Laura: No keys to Ioun? You know where she is?
Darin: I might. I hope I do. I hope that I can give you the answers you seek.
Laura: I hope so, too. I cast Cure Wounds.
Matt: Pike casts Cure Wounds on you, as well, and you heal 18.
Darin: Do I know her name yet?
Matt: No, you do not.
Darin: Cleric.
Matt: "Pike."
Darin: Yes. Ethred. Or Sprigg. Whichever you like. You can call me Sprigg. Can you help me pray to Ioun? We need answers, and I think together we might find them.
Matt: "I can certainly try. Do you have any items of her iconography?"
Darin: Do I?
Matt: Yeah, actually. You just reach over and find one of the undamaged books.
Laura: You healed 19, by the way.
Darin: Thank you. Use this and you talk to her where I can't. At least, not yet.
Matt: "I don't know if I can talk to her. I'm not... But I can help you pray. I don't know if it'll be enough."
Darin: Let's give it a go. There's a first time for everything.
Matt: "Grog!"
Travis: Yeah?
Matt: "Can you help me clear some of the floor, please?"
Travis: Not a problem! (grunting) Keyleth, catch!
Marisha: Ah! Ow! (laughter)
Sam: Floorboards! In her face!
Travis: I thought you were on fire. I'm really sorry.
Matt: Pike takes you over to the center of the room and tells you. "Kneel with me. Now take this book and close your eyes and... apologize."
Darin: For what?
Matt: "For everything you said about Ioun."
Darin: (grumbles) All right. Well, look the other way. Find some things that are of value.
Travis: (whistles)
Laura: Trinket sits down next to him and stares, but I'll turn around.
Darin: All right. I don't know if you're listening, Ioun. It's been many years since I've actually spoken to a god. I'd like to express my deepest sorrow. You see, this home... didn't mean as much to me as life. And I think these people gave that to me. If you could give us... If you could give me anything, any little hint, it would be greatly appreciated and I would be a warrior in your name forevermore. Please. Was that okay, bear?
Matt: (huffs, licking) Licks the side of your face.
Darin: No, I'm not crying. You're crying, bear.
Matt: You sit there in silence with your eyes closed, concentrating, holding the book before you. Doesn't seem to be an answer. Just silence in the darkness. Nothing. Everyone wants to look at him-- still turned away?
Marisha: Keyleth is definitely staring, but pretending not to stare.
Taliesin: I'm watching through the book.
Laura: I'm leaning against the wall and staring at him now.
Matt: Nothing. Nothing responds. As you have your eyes closed, you hear this soft chuckle in the far corner of the room. (cackles) "Really? Praying, are you?"
Darin: Yes. Can you help?
Matt: "Do I look the kind of guy that would help?"
Darin: Yes. I've known you for 19 years and I think anybody's capable of anything, so why don't you do something unexpected?
Matt: "I think you're right. It's no longer your prison. It's not mine, either."
Darin: That's true.
Matt: (flapping) Flies out the window.
Taliesin: Oh shit.
Darin: Kraghammer has another performer, and not a very good one.
Matt: While you've been talking, by the way, and the silence has been sad. Taking in the slight emotional cut that not getting a response and putting yourself on that limb means nothing. The rest of you notice his torso is glowing bright blue.
Marisha: What? Is it really?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Your stomach is glowing.
Darin: Growing? What? I didn't eat anything. How could my stomach be growing?
Sam: You're blue balling.
Darin: What?
Sam: (whispering) Look down.
Matt: Pike looks at you and takes your hands and opens your arms and motions to your chest. And the book in your hand, you pull aside. You glance down and you can see, there's this soft, bluish glow that's emanating from your torso. Strange.
Darin: You see? I didn't have to believe in Ioun. I've found my religion. (chuckling) I'm Bluish! (laughter)
Travis: Aw, man!
Darin: It didn't happen!
Matt: No, it did. That's canon.
Darin: Wait a second, gentlemen. We'll restart for just a second. It'll be fine. That little imp is gone. So apparently, the key... is me.
Laura: Is you? It is you.
Sam: Is in you or is you?
Marisha: It is him. I've known it from the minute that I laid eyes upon him. It's him.
Travis: You did? You knew that the moment you saw him?
Marisha: No, I mean I had a hunch, I had a feeling, deep down inside. I can't say it. If I say it out loud and then if it's not true then I'm an asshole.
Liam: To be fair, we've only been here 12 minutes.
Darin: Yes. House gone. The imp gone. Burny, burny. Sad, sad. Pray, nothing happened. Now I'm blue. That's a day for you, isn't it?
Laura: So do you glow brighter the closer we get? What's the deal here?
Darin: I've never glowed before, child.
Laura: I think it's glown.
Darin: I've never glowned.
Sam: If you're the key, where's the lock? Where do we take you?
Darin: Well, I have been gone for many, many years, so English may have changed. To be fair. To be fair. I don't know. This is all new to me. I would have thought it would be in one of those tomes.
Taliesin: I'm going to pick up the book that he was holding when he was praying. I'm going to just try and read it.
Matt: Okay. You glance through it. The book is a simple book, talking about the construction of barricades and it looks like it was less the contents of the book and more just the image of the book itself.
Taliesin: I'm going to hand him the book again and see if maybe there's focus to be found. Maybe this is--
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Taliesin: Oh, lord. Ooh. Let's call that a 28.
Matt: When you took the book from him and handed him another book, there was a very faint vibration to his body as you pulled it from him and gave it back to him. Which you haven't noticed, but there's a physical vibration to him.
Taliesin: If it's all-- with your permission, I'm going to take his hands.
Matt: Okay. You feel them, and you feel this very faint vibration to his body.
Marisha: Percy.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Continue holding his hands. I pull out the Tome of Quick Movement. Hold. Hold while I find the paper. Hold.
Laura: What if he's a tuning fork?
Marisha: (shushes)
Darin: That's very rude.
Marisha: Where is it? I have a lot of things.
Sam: Divining.
Darin: Oh yes. A divining rod. A rod to the divine. Perhaps I am a divining rod.
Laura: That's what I mean.
Darin: Well said, child!
Marisha: I pull out the fork we that we got to get to Elysium. Is it similar?
Matt: When you pull out the fork and you hold it, you recall that whenever you cast the spell Plane Shift, there was a faint vibration to the specific fork when you cast the spell.
Sam: He's the tuning fork.
Taliesin: He's the tuning fork.
Marisha: Oh no.
Laura: What, no? This is good!
Marisha: No, it is good. It's good, it's just... Oh, Sprigg. No, it's fine. It's good. I don't know. Everything in my life seems to have this impermanence factor about it. So I hope he's not something that can be used and discarded.
Darin: I haven't been used in 37 years.
Marisha: Sprigg.
Darin: It's all right. At least I wasn't discarded all that time.
Marisha: I'm sure it's fine, I just--
Darin: Look. Look at me. Just remember. Whatever happens, remember me. That's all that's important.
Liam: That's good advice.
Darin: That's all that we have. My friends are gone and I don't even remember their names. I don't remember Thetapax or Zephyr or... the guy with the nose. He was my favorite. (coughs and sniffles) Dusty in here, isn't it?
Marisha: Oh, Sprigg.
Darin: (sniffles and coughs) I remember. (softer) I remember. See? It's all up here. So whatever happens, keep me there. All right?
Marisha: I guess I have to start getting used to losing things.
Darin: Yes. Or you can be hidden away in a prison for 37 years. And that's not life, child. That's hiding. Don't hide.
Marisha: I've already built my own prison. They don't know. I'm already there.
Darin: You can break out. You can. It's hard. But you can do it. Just take the first step. And then you take another one. And then you take another one.
Marisha: And I grab his hand, and with that, I cast Plane Shift to wherever he is leading to go.
Matt: All right. The rest of you gathered hands for this?
Laura: I guess so.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Is there enough of us? Trinket, in the necklace. Quick!
Matt: Trinket. (roars) Into the necklace.
Darin: Wait. My invisible frog companion.
Sam: Is he real?
Darin: Yes. (laughter)
Matt: There is a sudden (sucking noise). A shuddering of power energy around you as you feel the vibration out of Sprigg's hand emanate throughout the entire loop you guys have created throughout your grasp. The familiar bright light flashes before you, and you feel your body being pulled through, at incredible speeds, through darkness. There. The familiar racing of the divine gate. (fast travel noise) As you pass through one of its many portholes. Then, adrift. By now you've-- the times you've passed through the gate, you've passed through it a handful of times since now. Adrift. Still holding hands, but the circle's beginning to turn into an oval. You can all glance around and see each other. Did you miss your destination? Did you overshoot? What's next? (whoosh) Another white flash. And suddenly you're at a destination. You glance around and you're standing within a small chamber. It resembles a decadent bathhouse but with no water nor occupants. It's empty. There are marble pillars stretching to a domed ceiling about 60 feet above you all. Silk-draped cloths drift and hang at odd angles throughout the ceiling. Glowing points of magical light latched within iron cages dangle at the edges of these pillars about 15 feet up that give the faint glow to an otherwise darkened room. There are walls on each side of this chamber, about 30 or 40 feet from you, and one arched hallway across from you that leads to the only other chamber you've seen.
Marisha: I immediately turn and look to see if Sprigg is still holding my hand.
Matt: Sprigg is still holding your hand.
Laura: See? All that fucking shit was for nothing! He's still alive!
Sam: Are you the same Sprigg as before?
Darin: I hope so. Let's ask my invisible frog companion. Well, I guess we'd better go find what we are looking for.
Marisha: Okay. Glad you're with us, Sprigg.
Darin: It's good to be alive.
Marisha: Yes, it is.
Darin: Remember that.
Marisha: Okay. I will.
Matt: As you guys walk forward towards the singular hallway, you go through the domed arch, and the hallway extends on. Featureless, smooth grey marble. Like a solid punch that seemed to have carved out whatever this material was. It extends for 100 feet. 150 feet. And even though there's very very faint light, and many of you can see through darkvision, there is a darkness about 60 feet from you that seems to consume what you can see. You can only see so far beyond that radius, and you're not quite sure where that oppressive shadow is coming from. The air is chilled, but not uncomfortably so. You can hear the distant sound of pinched winds whining through small spaces. A familiar sound from the many times you've spent underground, through caverns that had some openings that allowed air to streak through to the surface. A few steps more and suddenly the hallway opens into a second chamber. Into a library, if you could even call it that. Bookshelves that stretch upward for seemingly hundreds of feet, before flickering lights fell from your vision. You do not see where they stop. These columns of just tomes and cases and scrolls and parchments stacking as in tablets and any form of recorded information seem to just be infinite in front of you, to two sides of this road and upward. They seem to stretch in almost every direction, the walls to the side of you. You see columns ahead of you, and they tend to wind and curl like a labyrinth made of bookcases, to no end. It's very Escher-esque in how the further up you look, they tend to curve and shift and bend around each other. Your eyes, now attuned to the realms beyond mortality, you catch glimpses of shifting wind gathering books and turning pages. Spirits of the library, though sparse as they may be from this entry point, organizing. Reading and learning from whatever words are within. You begin to almost get vertigo, trying to contemplate the strange and overwhelming construction of such a wondrous place. An endless sea of stories. Spectral custodians keeping the tales of each other and the history of Exandria past, present, and binding the pages to tell what will eventually be the present, currently the future.
Taliesin: I've dreamed of this place.
Liam: Inside Matt's brain?
Taliesin: This is immortality. This is everything. (sighs, chuckles) I may never leave. I glide over to Vex and hold her close. This is stunning. My god, I think they may have actually forgotten all the idiot things I said yesterday.
Laura: Feels pretty good, doesn't it?
Taliesin: I think they've completely forgotten. I'm sorry. May have panicked.
Laura: I give him a kiss.
Taliesin: I'll be right back. I'm going to run towards one of those stacks, like a child.
Matt: Okay. You begin to take the first--
Taliesin: I'm doing a title run. I want to figure out the organizational system before I touch a book.
Matt: There are no words on any of the spines.
Taliesin: I pick one.
Matt: Okay. You pick.
Taliesin: All right. I pick it up. I look around to see if anybody has a problem. And I turn to the title page.
Matt: It's ironic you do this, because the book is in Celestial.
Taliesin: I read Celestial.
Matt: You do. It's ironic that you did that. (chuckles) Glancing through, it appears to be describing a birth. Describing a tunnel, then a light, then a cry.
Taliesin: I skip to the end. Last page.
Matt: It seems to be an older man, surrounded by his family--
Taliesin: I've got it. I put it down. I pick up another one.
Matt: You glance through this book.
Taliesin: First page.
Matt: Begins very similarly to the last one.
Taliesin: Last page.
Matt: This one actually ends with what appears to be a horseback riding accident.
Marisha: Oh god, they're souls.
Taliesin: 115 pages in.
Matt: 115 pages in you get to a page that seems to talk about the sorrow of a lost romance, and trying to deal, coping at a young adult age.
Taliesin: I put it back and I turn. They're made of people.
Laura: Wait, what? It's skin books?
Taliesin: It's people! And I'm going to find the most interesting spine and I'm going to turn to the first. Birth. Death.
Laura: I can't read that, dear.
Taliesin: Birth! Death! Sex. Birth, death, some disappointment. I am just gone. I'm running back and forth, finding whatever interesting spine I can. Are they all in Celestial?
Matt: They are currently. All the ones you've picked up are in Celestial.
Taliesin: Oh my god. Okay. This is great. All right. I'm eventually probably going to pass out from mild hyperventilation and have to sit down.
Laura: We should maybe find Ioun, don't you think?
Taliesin: If we must, yes. Just as an experiment, I'm going to think about Vesper and try and touch a book. I don't expect this to work, but I'm going to close my eyes and think about, and pick it up and flip through it.
Matt: Make a religion check.
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: You grab a tome and pull it forth, and as you read through the story, it's an unfamiliar one.
Taliesin: There's a system. I will discover the system. I'm going to keep running around like a kid.
Matt: What are the rest of you guys doing while Percival is running around like a kid?
Travis: I'm not interested in the fucking books.
Marisha: Distracted by Percy, Keyleth just scans. Does anything in Primordial stick out?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: That's good. 29.
Matt: Glancing about, none of the spines have anything written on them, so you have to start pulling a few books out and opening them.
Marisha: I hold my hand over and pull.
Matt: You open it up. It's not in a language you understand.
Marisha: I put it back and get frustrated.
Taliesin: I've stopped. I'm good.
Liam: Watched her the whole time and quietly walk up behind and give her a hug from behind and don't say anything.
Sam: Are there any doors leading forward or back?
Matt: It's a labyrinth of bookshelves. There's a path forward between, two or three ahead of you, but then it comes to an end where it splits off in two directions. Like I said, they travel up infinitely, so you're not quite sure which way leads where.
Laura: Is Sprigg still glowing?
Matt: Sprigg is, actually-- There's a very faint blue glow in him that never really faded since your arrival.
Laura: I wonder if we could follow the glow. Warmer?
Marisha: Hey, Sprigg. Stand over there!
Darin: All right. I run to where she's pointing. Is there any change in the glow?
Matt: No noticeable change.
Marisha: Damn. Sprigg, stand over there!
Darin: I just was shot with a bunch of arrows, so give me a second. I run over there, stop halfway and go, ow, and then I continue. When I get there, any change in the glow?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Darin: Oh, it's a one.
Matt: No discernible difference.
Sam: You're inspired, if you want to use inspiration.
Matt: It's a natural one. It's an auto-fail.
Taliesin: Is there a card catalog?
Sam: Is there a central area info desk?
Matt: You can make an investigation check to begin to wander around and try to find your way.
Sam: Oh, that's a natural 20.
Matt: Scanlan seems to walk with purpose into one of the random rows.
Sam: I'm clutching my Ioun stone.
Matt: Okay. All right. Anyone else do anything?
Taliesin: He seems to have purpose. I'm giddily following behind.
Matt: Okay, Percy's following Scanlan.
Laura: I'm going to walk with Percy. Oh, and Trinket's out.
Matt: Okay. Trinket (bear grunt) looks confused and starts looking up.
Laura: I know. I know, dear.
Matt: Falls onto his back.
Sam: Are Vex and Percy walking with me?
Matt: Yes, they are.
Sam: I'm going to whip out my flute and I start going, (wedding march).
Taliesin: Oh. He may have heard.
Laura: He heard?
Taliesin: I thought you were going to die! I may have panicked.
Laura: Wait.
Taliesin: We were asked to plead for your life, and I may have panicked.
Laura: Who did you tell? Percival, who did you tell?
Sam: Look at your shirt.
Laura: What? (screams) No!
Taliesin: I panicked!
Laura: Percy!
Taliesin: I panicked! There was a giant glowing sun, and I may have panicked. Well, I was a bit vague, but I was--
Laura: A bit vague? Scanlan, what did he say?
Sam: Well.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Sam: First comes love. Then comes marriage.
Taliesin: I may have hinted that we might have eloped. May have hinted.
Sam: Wait, you're married?
Taliesin: I may have hinted.
Sam: Wait, no, you said you were betrothed to be married? Wait, you're married? Oh, wow, you just spilled it!
Taliesin: Silence! Cone of Silence!
Sam: They're married!
Matt: You try and yell, and it's making no sound. It is just absolute quiet. What are the rest of you guys doing?
Darin: I run in the corner and see if I glow again.
Liam: Keyleth and Vax heard the (wedding march), so we had a very different silent scene over in our spot.
Marisha: Yeah, Keyleth was quietly sobbing in Vax's arms and then heard (wedding march) and went (angry roar).
Laura: Why is that bad? Why was that angry?
Liam: Because we don't get that.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Grog?
Sam: So you're going to ruin everyone else's joy. You're one of those couples.
Liam: Thank you, vacation Scanlan.
Marisha: Worst double date sangria partners ever.
Taliesin: He's back, ladies and gentlemen. He's back and taking no prisoners.
Sam: Are you guys going on vacation? We got a divorce.
Liam: It's the Debbie Downer SNL sketch.
Matt: Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: I'm as uncomfortable as I can possibly be. This is the worst-case scenario of my entire life. I'm not moving and hoping this is all over soon.
Taliesin: I love that.
Travis: It's just endless books, beyond what you can see! Are there chairs?
Laura: I feel like Pike would've comforted him.
Matt: Yeah, Pike comes over.
Travis: There are chairs?
Matt: No, there aren't. She goes, "Do you want to go with everyone else, Grog?"
Travis: I don't know. Do you?
Matt: "It's okay, yeah! They're walking."
Travis: I want to leave. Fast.
Matt: "The faster we follow them, then the faster we can go."
Travis: Okay. Let's go.
Matt: "I bet you could read some of these books."
Travis: I bet not. These are really tall books.
Matt: "Come on." She grabs your hand and begins tugging you behind her. What are you guys doing?
Marisha: Me and him?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Leaning into each other.
Matt: Okay. So you guys stay there.
Darin: I'm trying to see if I'm glowing anywhere.
Matt: You run around for a good minute and a half and you're not seeing any sort of change.
Darin: Nothing?
Matt: No.
Darin: Can I go forward into the bookcases and look right and left to see where they lead?
Matt: Okay, yeah. You turn around the corner and see them disappear around the edge.
Darin: I'll continue.
Matt: Okay. So you follow them. As you guys are having this silent argument, Sprigg catches up to you, but you hear nothing, Sprigg, as they're all going...
Taliesin: I just turned it off. I got everyone to agree.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hi. How's it going?
Darin: Glowing. You are, too! What's going on with that? Yeah, you seem to be blushing.
Laura: It's so hot in here. It's very hot in here.
Matt: Pike and Grog catch up around the corner.
Travis: What did you find? The way out? Exit?
Sam: Seems like it could be this way. We'll have to band together and go forward.
Travis: Really?
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: Where did you get the sunglasses from?
Sam: It's glowing in here.
Matt: The Ioun stone actually is giving a faint glow similar to the glow that you see emanating from Sprigg's torso.
Sam: Is it glowing any more than--
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Oh, okay. That's an eight. Maybe 11, I don't know. Do I add Jack of All Trades?
Matt: You do, yeah. If you're not--
Sam: I really want to know. I will inspire myself, and I'll add a d12. That makes it 16.
Matt: Okay. You start getting the sense, the further you walk, both your stone and Sprigg are beginning to emanate a slightly stronger glow, and so you guys begin to realize that this could be used as a path to something. You're not quite sure.
Sam: Let's keep going.
Matt: Okay. So everyone's going behind.
Liam: Imagination clarification, because a Silence effect went off there. Did Vax and Keyleth hear, "You're married?" Or was that all covered by Silence?
Matt: No, he crushed that in Silence.
Liam: So we heard the song, but that's it. Good to know.
Matt: Everyone else has gone ahead and vanished into the library. You guys are staying?
Liam: Noticing that we're totally alone, silently tug Keyleth down after them.
Taliesin: I felt that honesty was important at that moment.
Laura: No, it very much is. I'm very glad. I'm just surprised he didn't say anything. I spoke with him.
Sam: He was acting nobly. I won't tell anyone if you don't want me to.
Taliesin: We had to tell them eventually.
Matt: As you're following the stone, you hear some footfalls as Vax and Keyleth catch up to you guys.
Marisha: We already know. It's fine.
Liam: You're engaged. You don't have to--
Taliesin: Well.
Laura: I'm sorry I didn't tell you about that. Engagement. But you know.
Marisha: You fucking liars. You fucking liars! Just tell us! We know!
Laura: We got married.
Taliesin: We may have gotten married.
Marisha: Yeah. (sarcastically) Oh, surprise!
Taliesin: It was going to be--
Laura: (weakly) Celebration!
Taliesin: We didn't want to make it a thing. We wanted it to just be--
Sam: I think it's great.
Laura: Thank you, Scanlan.
Sam: It's wonderful when two people can fall in love and have each other forever and ever. That's nice. No, I mean it! You guys are great. You're super cute together. You'll make Whitestone-- You'll be celebrities there.
Travis: Do we have to get you gifts?
Sam: No, they eloped, so we're clear.
Taliesin: Very specifically, no. This place.
Marisha: Yeah, it's amazing. And Keyleth lights up her flame hands as she walks off in a fury.
Taliesin: Do you not know what this place means? Am I the only one who understands what this place means?
Travis: I would love to know.
Taliesin: It all matters!
Laura: None of us have forgotten.
Taliesin: No, I mean, really! It all matters! So much, and it's not going to go away! Nothing goes away!
Marisha: No, it only gets filed away in some library where no one else can experience it except for, what, one, maybe two people ever.
Taliesin: One and two people are all that it takes to experience something!
Matt: An echoing voice billows out from the right side of your troupe. A creaky, warm, matronly voice that surrounds and almost welcomes you with the intonation of a grandmother. It says, "Nothing is forever, Percival." You glance off to the right, and you can see there's a break in the bookcase. To your right, you see the shelves have stopped ahead in this direction to reveal a circular common area within the library, where the ground domes downward into an 80-foot-wide concave pit of cushions and tables, all standing at odd angles alongside this pit, but never sliding. Gravity seems to shift depending on where the dome stands. These tables hold teacups and writing implements and various other décor, and things that involve binding and writing. None of them slipping, all of them affixed to the table as the dome slowly comes to a central rest. Long, spiraling streams of silver, blue, and gray silk descend from the supposed ceiling that is beyond your sight, and they come down like drifting silks that push past as you enter the area. Sitting 40 feet from you in the center of the dome, no larger than a normal person, is an older woman with long, wavy silver hair. Her olive skin is somewhat weathered and wrinkled around her almond eyes, but the warmth of her smile, and her vibrant purple irises put you at ease immediately. Her blue and white robes tumble out from her form in tendrils of parchment that snake through the pillows like roots. She smiles as you turn and see her. "I felt that you would find me." And that's where we'll end tonight's session.
Sam: Wow, Matt. Wow, Darin!
Liam: Can everybody watching still at home give a round of applause for Darin?
Matt: Seriously. If you're available, you may want to, if you can, come and join us for the first half maybe. Not next week, but the week after Comic Con, if you're interested. Because I want to roleplay out you meeting Ioun.
Darin: It would be an honor. You know how important this is to me.
Matt: Great. I'll look forward to having you back in a couple weeks, then.
Darin: And I will see you next weekend, as well!
Matt: Yes, indeed. Oh, Comic Con. Guys, thank you so much. Great game, well done. Breaking stuff, apparently. Once again, we have no episode next week because we'll be at Comic Con, but we have our panel on Saturday for Critical Role. Love you guys, hope you have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? Good night! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hi, everyone! Welcome to Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. Good job, Sam. Thank you for your patience. Sorry we were off last week. I'm doing much better, for those who are worried about it. Happy to be back. Missed you guys, and happy to be back at this table. So yeah! It's been a couple of weeks. Let's go ahead and get into some announcements real fast. First off, tonight we have our fantastic sponsor, Shadow of War!
Travis: Shadow of War! Oh shit!
Laura: Are we allowed to say what we did in it?
Matt: Yeah, a number of us actually worked in the game. It comes out October 10th, actually.
Sam: And the full name of the game is Middle Earth: Shadow of War, for all of those who are looking for it alphabetically.
Travis: The sequel to Middle Earth  Shadow of Mordor.
Sam: Yes, and many of us were in the game yelling our asses off. I played a little character known as Orc 4. It was so much! I did 20 recording sessions.
Travis: I remember talking to you! I was Commanding Orc 1.
Sam: Oh, nice.
Matt: I was Professional Orc 1, as well as the Witch King of Angmar, the head of the Nazgul. I'm pretty excited about that.
Laura: Oh, nice!
Liam: I was Troy Baker's fluffer. It's prestigious.
Sam: You were in it, right? No?
Liam: I'm in the first one.
Sam: Oh, what did you do in the first one?
Liam: The thing I killed two weeks ago? That was me.
Sam: Laura, were you in it?
Laura: I am in it. I play the Blade of Galadriel.
Liam: You play a sword?!
Laura: I know! Get this, so I'm an assassin elf, right? She's really cool. The DLC is going to be about my character.
Sam: Do you have a number after your character?
Laura: No, it's the only one. It's the coolest thing! I don't think I ever told you this. When I saw the character design? She's a combo of Vex and Vax.
Matt: That's pretty great.
Laura: No, seriously, though, she's an elf chick. So she's an assassin. She's got dual-wielding, and she wears feathery armor. It's so freaking cool! So basically, it's like if Vax was a girl, which is Vex.
Travis: But with the sex appeal of Grog.
Laura: Of course, baby.
Matt: I will never forget being at the Shadow of War panel at Comic Con, and you mentioning the DLC and then going, "Has that even been announced yet?" And there was five seconds where I watched Laura wither away into a shell of a human before they went, "Oh, yeah, it's announced." And you reverted.
Laura: Even at this very moment, as I said it, aftershocks. "Was I supposed to say that?"
Liam: They scare you so bad that, even when it's official, I'm like "I'm in the--"
Travis: It's such a dope game. The Nemesis system has been improved on from last time. We can testify.
Sam: We're supposed to mention that on the 18th of this month, Shadow of War will be debuting a brand new live-action trailer that will take you near the game? No! Right into the game. Soon we'll need to choose whether to save or slay. During the break tonight, they're going to be showing off some awesome videos from the game. It drops October 10th. Go buy it and try to pick out our voices in the game as you slay us.
Travis: And make us rise to the higher echelons of the orc order.
Matt: By the way, if you haven't played the previous game, the Nemesis system is one of the coolest things I've played in many games in a long time. I'm going to challenge you guys to try and pick out not only who you voice orc-wise, but then to try and make sure our orcs rise to the very top. So you have nothing but generals from Critical Role. I challenge you for this. Because that would be pretty cool.
Liam: I hope you like hearing the word ranger.
Liam: Ranger!
Travis: Ranger!
Laura: Ranger!
Matt: It's going to be fun. All right, thank you, Shadow of War for being our sponsor tonight. We're excited about the game, and hope you are, too. Also, there's been a lot of insane weather tragedies that have been in the news recently. I want to make sure that everyone knows that if you want to help support relief for both of the hurricanes that have come and torn through the U.S., we have a link to the Red Cross to donate and be part of that. It'll be available in the chat and throughout the rest of the game tonight, so if you have the opportunity to help out, I highly recommend it. Come help these people that have lost a lot in the past couple weeks or so. Give what you can. I've given, and we really appreciate that support.
Travis: They'll let you delineate between Harvey and Irma, too, in case you want to pick one over the other. Harvey had a lot of support from J.J. Watt's $30+ million dollars. Irma, the damage is still accruing.
Matt: I grew up in Florida. I know the area well, and I have family out there that endured it. It's very close to me. So if you can, greatly appreciate it. Let's see here. Merch! Laura.
Laura: This feels so weird to say after you mentioned that.
Travis: Nah, but we make happy stuff.
Laura: Happy stuff! Which, by the way, you're wearing your Dalen's Closet shirt, Matt, and it matches your eyeballs so beautifully.
Travis: Ooh!
Matt: I'll show it to you, and my back brace, to make it really better.
Sam: Are we selling those in the store?
Matt: The back brace?
Travis: Critical Role back brace! Do you DM 20 hours a week? We've got something for you!
Liam: We missed an opportunity to put Backblaze on that back brace. (groaning)
Laura: Next time.
Matt: Next time.
Liam: No next time!
Laura: There are Dalen's Closet shirts in the store. Go check them out. There's tank tops. They're really cool; they're cheaper because they are sleeveless. That's less material. Dagger, Dagger, Dagger; it's been re-released. We have the Scanlan tee; we have all the tees. And it's getting cooler now, so the hoodie is still in the store; the softest hoodie ever is there. Go check it out. We have hats and we have key chains and necklaces and pencils and aprons and tarot cards, and other stuff. And more stuff coming! So keep your eyes peeled.
Matt: Thank you, Laura. Also reminding you guys, we have up to episode 40 of Critical Role now released on iTunes, Google, and geekandsundry.com has all the information for it. So if you want to listen to the podcast, or your friends have been like, "I don't want to watch it, but I just want to hear it."
Laura: I want to watch it, but I don't want to watch it.
Matt: It's good for commutes.
Marisha: Also, clarification, speaking of saying things prematurely before I should have. I've gotten a lot of questions being like, "What happened to that plan of rolling out one a day once a week?" Yeah, that plan didn't turn out to be feasible. And I might have said that-- I said it, and then I looked down at the announcement sheet and it said in parenthesis afterward, "But do not announce this part." Which, why was it even on our announcement sheet? Still my fault.
Matt: To be fair, I remember looking down at the sheet as you were announcing it.
Marisha: Oh shit. Anyway, it's never going to happen because they're easier to do in batch. So ten at a time. That's what you get.
Taliesin: It's like one cookie at a time. You can't bake one cookie at a time.
Marisha: It's just better to do them in a block.
Matt: Thank you for the heads-up on that. We announced a while back the Critical Role six-issue mini-series comic book. We announced last week that it's going through Dark Horse, which I'm super excited about.
Travis: DM is very excited.
Matt: Oh, yeah. Dark Horse was my introduction. I was probably in fourth grade when I got into the Alien comics through Dark Horse. I didn't realize there was more to explore. Dude, I've been a fan of them ever since. Being able to take this into their realm is brilliant. I'm so excited. First issue drops on the 20th, guys.
Marisha: The digital issue. The first issue releases digitally this coming Wednesday.
Sam: Is it good? I haven't read it.
Laura: It's so good!
Sam: Why have you all read it and I haven't?
Marisha: Because you don't read your emails.
Sam: Yeah, that's fair.
Liam: You show up ten minutes after we start, you leave an hour before we end the game every week.
Sam: That's true.
Matt: So that's coming up. It will be on Comixology, iBooks, Dark Horse Digital, Kindle, Nook, Google Play, etc. It's written by our good friend, Matt Colville. It's drawn beautifully by our good friend, Olivia Samson from the Critter community, and the coloring and lettering by Chris Northrop. Super stoked, hope you guys enjoy it. So look out for that next week.
Liam: Looks fucking awesome! The writing is awesome! The art is awesome!
Matt: What he said.
Laura: Did you already say about the physical copies, too? When those will be released?
Matt: We'll have a trade available in spring 2018.
Liam: It's coming out with the DLC for Middle Earth.
Matt: Yeah, to tie in with it. Of course, we have Talks Machina coming up this Tuesday at 7:00pm Pacific, here with our fantastic host, Brian. We'll be talking about our episode tonight. So look for that next week. All the Critical Role episodes are now available on Alpha. They've gone back and added the bells and whistles, the information, the stats, everything, for all the episodes before Alpha even launched. So if you ever watched it there, it's all updated.
Sam: I really should check my email!
Taliesin: We would miss this sense of wonder that we get to share with the community. It's really nice.
Marisha: They get your unbridled reaction.
Taliesin: It's like watching Home Alone next to Macaulay Culkin. It's great. I'm getting so much out of it.
Matt: All righty. Last few things. One  this is Sub-tember, guys, by the way, for Twitch. Sub-tember means for the next few weeks, Twitch has a special promotion where subscriptions are half off for new subs for every Twitch channel, including this one. So if you've been watching and you've always wanted to subscribe, but you never really felt like you can give the full $5, it's half off this month. So if you want to subscribe to our Twitch, now's the month to do it. Just giving the heads-up. It's pretty rad, and thank you, Sub-tember. Last but not least, Laura and Travis, you are going to be at an event soon, aren't you?
Travis: Yeah! End of this month, we're going to be at Anime Weekend Atlanta. The last week of September. Hotlanta, Georgia. We're going to be there with other people like Jennifer Hale and people like that. But we're going to be there. Come out, say hi, smack our hands, not our faces.
Laura: Give a high-five.
Marisha: I love Atlanta.
Travis: It's pretty dope. I want to get in that aquarium with those whale sharks. That's what I want to do. We're not going to have time for that. And then, also, in the middle of November, we're going to be going to Australia. Laura and I are going for two weeks. We're going to be in Adelaide, Brisbane. So for all the Aussies-- what?
Laura: I've got to get my passport.
Travis: Oh shit!
Liam: Expedite!
Travis: So barring Laura's passport showing up--
Matt: You can hear the $400 burn away instantly. That's how much it costs to expedite.
Laura: Oh my god. I'm doing that tomorrow! I'm going to write a note in my calendar.
Travis: (sighs) Adelaide, Brisbane. If you're there, you want to see us, come see maybe just me. (laughter)
Sam: Everybody tweet Laura tomorrow at noon, saying--
Laura: No, but seriously! If you want to, feel free.
Travis: Will Friedle will be there, too. He's going to be my convention wife. Me and Friedle.
Laura: I'm writing an email to myself.
Marisha: Australia? Is that when we got caught with having to have those weird travel visas, as well?
Matt: Yeah. Make sure you get your travel visas.
Marisha: Yeah, we didn't know until we got to the airport. And then they're like, "You have to have one." And then we're like, "Oh, okay." Luckily, you can do it online.
Travis: Oh, I totally have that covered.
Matt: All right. Well, cool, guys! Thank you so much. Thank you for dealing with our long announcements. It's been a few weeks. However, I think, with that, it's time to dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. I'll remember this. Why's everything targeting Scanlan in this battle? Welcome back, everyone. So last we left off, Vox Machina, preparing themselves for a final fray with the recently ascended god, Vecna, the Undying King, discovered that he had brought the city of Thar Amphala about 300 miles northwest, of Vasselheim on the continent of Issylra. Upon gathering allies to assail this region, you discovered that it was shifting, moving. And apparently the corpse of the long dead primordial earth titan had been risen and began marching its way towards Vasselheim with Thar Amphala embedded at the top of its torso, protected by some sort of magical barrier. With an advance army of wyvern riders at your back and J'mon Sa Ord giving you a ride between their wings, you made your way southward. Quickly depositing yourselves within a waterfall, expelling opening towards the hip of this large titan undead beast, you began to fight your way to the interior. Dealing with corrupted earth elemental shards, you began to make your way through the catacombs, the long ruined and abandoned dwarven city of Thomara, where you encountered the tomb of the dwarven king. Where you also managed to raid the tomb, found a magical item, and dealt with some fun traps in the process. Then, continuing to follow where this route led you upward, hopefully towards the underbelly of the city of Thar Amphala, you uncovered a mostly cleaned out vault and did battle with some undead trolls that immediately rushed in and attacked you. You managed to destroy them, and make your way out through a small cavern that had just momentarily collapsed, clearing out of the way. You all began to squeeze through the opening to find the next length of your journey. And that's where we left off. As you guys all crawl through this recently cleared opening, you come into a partially collapsed cavern about 20 or so feet wide in places with elements of the ceiling fallen in. You can see the rocks that are scattered amongst the ground rumbling with each impact of the feet of the titan you're currently riding within. It seems to be going at a steady incline beginning baseline and then about 20 feet ahead, begin to rise upward to about a 30 to 45-degree angle with the next 25, 30 or so feet.
Sam: How do you play Dungeons and Dragons?
Matt: Two weeks, Sam? It's too much for you?
Sam: I've forgotten entirely what we're supposed to do now. Insight check! I got nothing.
Liam: I'm going to do my due diligence and scoot a little ahead of everybody and start looking for traps or anything hinky.
Travis: Wait, Vax. You should consult that little scrawny NPC fellow that was supposed-- oh, wait. Oh, he's dead.
Liam: Did anybody see that guy?
Travis: Nope.
Laura: Yeah, we did. We saw him.
Matt: Well, you saw the corpse after it was there, yeah.
Liam: Nobody asked me about him.
Laura: No, because you did a good job of killing that.
Liam: That clearly undead cannibal dwarf eating flesh, as I saw it, so problem solved. We're on a time table, yeah?
Laura: We should keep moving upwards, I'm assuming?
Sam: Did we get any items recently?
Travis: No, I picked up that hammer that was hitting me in the face.
Laura: Well, yeah. But Percy, the belt?
Sam: Yeah, what does it do?
Taliesin: Stuff, things. I'm using it right now.
Marisha: Do we need to do a switchery-poo of our items?
Laura: I think we maybe should do that, actually.
Sam: We all have potions, right? Did we pass out potions?
Travis: We all have at least the one superior from the brass dragon.
Liam: Are we going to take a little 20-minute breather here?
Sam: This is just for us to remember what we're doing. I don't know. Should we stop? I think we're on a timetable. We should keep moving, right? Does anyone need to heal?
Marisha: We just stopped, right?
Matt: You'd taken a brief rest after the battle with the trolls where you guys began to look about the inside of the vault. And that's where the part of the exit collapsed.
Travis: I didn't roll any hit dice. Should we roll some hit dice?
Marisha: You dug things out?
Laura: But he was doing something? He was reading, or something.
Sam: Yeah, you were trying to read Dwarvish, or something. And it took an hour.
Travis: I clearly do not remember this. That's right, I remember. I don't remember what I read, but I remember.
Sam: It just said, "Do not enter."
Travis: Yep. There were things.
Liam: We're doing the Vox Machina thing and standing around like a bunch of dumb fucks trying to figure out what to do. I'm going to attune the Deathwalker's Ward to necrotic damage.
Matt: All righty. Necrotic it is.
Travis: We also need to be on the lookout for that sword, remember? In the story?
Sam: The sword of Kas?
Travis: Just saying. Keep your eyes peeled, high-perception people.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: I literally can't see anything.
Laura: Wait, we have light.
Marisha: (whoosh)
Laura: Yeah, see?
Matt: Between her hand, his dagger, and Pike's mace, you have a few light sources that you guys maintain.
Laura: Pike's mace is lit up. We said that last time.
Matt: But do keep in mind that light sources also do make you a bright beacon in dark places.
Laura: Probably your hands are less noticeable than Pike's mace.
Liam: Oh, I don't know.
Taliesin: I think they would be less intimidated by a glowing mace than by glowing hands, at this point.
Matt: Glowing hands is like a small torch firelight. The Mace of Disruption--
Liam: Is like a headlamp.
Laura: So maybe we'll not have the mace on.
Liam: "Yeah, okay. I'll put this away."
Laura: That sounded just like her.
Sam: She's turning more and more Canadian as you go.
Liam: She's kind of Canadian already. Come on.
Matt: So if I could have a marching order, please?
Liam: Yo. Up front, looking for traps.
Laura: Did you want this acid-resistant armor? You'd at least be resistant to acid.
Travis: And Vex is probably with her brother. I'll be right behind the twins. It's the twins and then me. Who wants to be behind?
Taliesin: I'll be behind you.
Matt: Okay. Do you have Trinket out, Vex?
Laura: Yeah, Trinket is out.
Matt: Percy's after Grog.
Marisha: Me.
Matt: Keyleth, and then we have Pike and Scanlan holding up the rear. All righty, there you go. Have that marked down. How far ahead are you tracking?
Liam: 20 feet.
Matt: So 20 feet ahead, you begin to make your way up the incline, and it is loose rock in this tunnel. As you step, there are elements that skid and fall beneath the pressure of your feet, and you have to be careful as you progress up the incline based on how much it continues upward to keep your footing.
Laura: Brother.
Liam: Yeah?
Laura: Make sure you stay within 60 feet of me.
Liam: I turn around and look at her and go  all right.
Laura: You said you're 20 fucking feet in front of me, I'm using my fucking earring to whisper to you.
Liam: You're stage-whispering and that's very easy to hear.
Laura: Stay within fucking 60 feet of me, all right?
Liam: I love you. Perception check. Investigation for traps? Yeah. That is a 25.
Matt: Okay. No traps catch your attention. As you progress forward, you begin to notice the tunnel seems to be pincering a bit the further you go. The sides of the walls begin to close in and eventually, about 30 feet ahead, comes from the 15, 20-foot width that the initial entrance way into this carved tunnel was, pinches to about three feet wide.
Sam: How tall?
Matt: About five and half, six feet tall?
Taliesin: Is this pressure by design, or is this what's been done to the structure by the transformation?
Matt: You'll probably have to get closer to see. Where you are currently, it looks like part of the tunnel was carved outward and then shaken, and elements of it collapsed and loosened the earth that at one point was packed at the sides.
Laura: And the tunnel's rising steadily upwards?
Matt: Yeah. It's coming at an incline.
Travis: How's it look?
Liam: It's dark up there. I can only see about 60 feet up. Does it keep going beyond that?
Matt: The incline isn't increasing. It gets to about a 45-degree incline and then maintains that up until the outside of your visual range.
Liam: Okay. I'm a punching bag for this shit. Why don't you all wait here a minute. Wait.
All: Wait.
Laura: Do you want me to fly up there?
Liam: Well, will you go with me?
Laura: Of course. Can you not use your wings?
Liam: They're gone.
Laura: Well, then hop on.
Liam: This could be the last time we do this. Come on.
Sam: Oh god.
Liam: Well, there's only four games left, Sam.
Laura: You don't know that!
Liam: It's scripted! (laughter)
Marisha: That's going to be a Reddit thread later.
Laura: Do we have Pass Without a Trace on?
Liam: Yeah, I think that probably faded by now.
Matt: Not if you haven't recast it because after the short rest it would've been gone.
Laura: Should I cast that on us?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: No, wait! I shouldn't because I got a proficiency, so we're both stealthy stealth. We're fine. So we're just going to go. I'm not casting it. But here's the thing. Everybody stay right at the bottom. We're going to fly up, but we're not going to fly up more than 60 feet away from them.
Liam: Right. We'll go 60 feet up, see what we can see.
Laura: And then come back down.
Liam: Sure. Or you could stay there and I could go even further up 60 feet--
Laura: All right. As long as everybody's within 60 feet of me. Because we're getting really close and I don't want Vecna to see us. I've got this ring.
Taliesin: That's right. I forgot about the ring.
Liam: All right. Let's do that.
Matt: So as you guys glide up on the broom, stealthily, I want you guys both to roll a stealth check, please.
Travis: Pick from your fucking 300 dice.
Laura: Ooh, that's good.
Travis: Almost poked my eye out. You almost made me Vecna.
Laura: 30.
Liam: 29.
Laura: 30.
Matt: All right. That's impressive. So as you both quietly coast your way past this entrance way, squeezing into this two and a half, three-foot-wide location, you get just within the 60 foot range and look up and Vax, you step off the broom and make your way quietly up to the other side of the range. You get about 30 feet beyond the broom before your vision meets where this tunnel seems to end and it looks like there is a solid, rocky blockage.
Laura: What do you see?
Liam: It's corked up. It's all right. Yeah, it's blocked up with stone. I guess I'd have to get a closer look to see if we could get through.
Laura: Well, get a fucking closer look.
Taliesin: If we have to, we can just have Grog beat it down.
Laura: Yes, but quiet is the key word.
Taliesin: Is it? We can try and time it to a step.
Liam: Hand on the sides to get my way up closer to it. Looking for any traps.
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check as you're climbing up to maintain the strength, as the incline is now towards the end getting more and more steep.
Liam: Get ready to catch me.
Laura: I'm going to hover.
Liam: Yes! My athletics is a two, but I rolled a 19, so 21.
Matt: Deftly, you manage to find the proper handholds and pull your strength up as the final bit becomes a little bit of a upper body weight carrying situation, and you come to the edge of the rock and you see it. It does appear to be a rocky cave-in or larger boulder that has fallen or been placed to close. It looks to be one solid rock, yeah. At this point, the entrance is about four foot by two foot. And it's all blocked by one solid piece of rock.
Liam: Yeah. We're not getting through this. Hey. I'm not getting through this, you're not. Maybe Kiki can.
Laura: Do we see any other openings?
Matt: This would be a perception check.
Sam: Matt, my friends just told me to start paying attention to the cadence of the steps to see if they change in any discernible way.
Marisha: That's what we're doing. While they do that, we're timing the steps out.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: 20.
Matt: 20? Okay.
Taliesin: Ugh.
Marisha: Ugh.
Sam: 15.
Marisha: 15.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: It's not that difficult to discern the pattern of the steps. The entirety of this titan shifts and quakes with each footfall, so it's pretty easy to find the pattern. It rarely changes, and you imagine any slight shift that you feel as they're going about this is because it's stepping on or through terrain that is not flat. But it is a pretty discernible pattern.
Taliesin: We could go have Grog smash it down in tempo with the steps so that the sound will be covered.
Travis: Like Shawshank Redemption and the poop pipe.
Taliesin: I was thinking of the Tainted Love Levi's commercial.
Laura: Do I see any other--
Matt: Not really. It mostly looks like loose rock and the more you glance about with each impacting footfall, you see two or three errant rocks go. You guys watch as more rocks tumble down the incline.
Laura: Maybe we need to do this quickly. This doesn't seem like the most stable sort of tunnel. Hop on the broom, darling.
Taliesin: I like the idea of you punching this at the appropriate moment.
Marisha: It also saves me a 6th-level spell.
Travis: Well, that's what's most important. Are the Knuckles still doing that vibrating hum thing?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Can I go into a rage?
Matt: You may.
Travis: And I would like to try and bash the shit out of this--
Taliesin: In tempo.
Laura: In tempo.
Matt: This is a tight tunnel for you. You have to crouch down, round your shoulders as you're doing it.
Travis: I'm going to do the one-inch punch.
Matt: Make an athletics check. With advantage, because you are raging.
Travis: Yeah, because I'm an angry monster. 21.
Matt: Okay. Here's the scenario  Vex and Vax, as you guys are on the broom in the tunnel, you look down and you know in Labyrinth, when the cleaner comes through the tunnel that fills the entirety of the space? You watch as this angry goliath starts up the tunnel towards you, and there does not appear to be much of any space you could squeeze through.
Liam: Is there a bubble at the top, maybe?
Laura: Grog?
Travis: What? (angry panting)
Laura: Can we pass under his legs or something?
Liam: Dive, dive!
Laura: Rage quietly.
Matt: You can both attempt to. Make an acrobatics check to attempt to squeeze between his legs.
Laura: At the same time? Acrobatics. 22.
Liam: 30-something.
Matt: It's not comfortable, but you both (popping) out the back, between his monstrous goliath thighs. From a backward perspective, those of you who are still waiting a little further down the tunnel from Vex: it's a unique sight, as the back end of your goliath friend suddenly gives birth to two half-elves. It's very Ace Ventura 2. However, you eventually climb your way angrily up to the very edge and there is the boulder, there, and you're about to go right towards it, but then stop and remember what your friends had said, and you wait patiently for the pattern of the next footfall. (boom)
Travis: (punch impact)
Matt: Go ahead and roll an attack.
Travis: Can I make it reckless-- oh, I didn't say it.
Laura: But you do extra damage because you're--
Travis: Oh, yeah, siege. Oh, it's fine. 30.
Matt: Yeah, all right, so roll 1d4 damage.
Travis: Okay, 1d4. Four!
Matt: Plus your strength modifier and your rage damage.
Travis: Eight. 27.
Matt: Whoa, wait, did you double it already?
Travis: No.
Matt: Wait, so it's four plus eight, 12.
Travis: And my rage damage is 15. Well, that's with the axe.
Matt: That's with the axe, yeah. No, that's your overall. So your rage damage at this level is four, because you just went up a level. So it's 12 plus four, so it's 16. So you do 32 points of bludgeoning damage with a single punch to this rock. With one hit, the entire boulder shifts and cracks, and you watch as part of it breaks away, and you see a brief glimmer of a dull light from the opposite side, as it rests back into place, heavily damaged.
Taliesin: (singing) Wait for it to go again and bump, bump, bump.
Matt: You wait for the next footfall of the titan (impact). You feel the impact and the shake. Do you want to go for another punch?
Travis: Do I hit it now?
Sam: Yes!
Taliesin: Yes!
Laura: Yes!
Matt: Roll another attack.
Travis: Oh, that's even better. 33.
Matt: Easily enough. Go ahead and roll another d4.
Travis: Two plus eight. Ten plus--
Matt: Four for rage damage.
Travis: 14.
Matt: All right, and so with that, your fist slams into the boulder a second time. It explodes and shatters into hundreds of crumbled pieces of rock and stone goes firing across the distance of this tunnel, now revealing a little bit of flickering firelight. As you're sitting there seething with anger and your muscles and veins bulging with each breath--
Travis: I'm so swole right now.
Matt: Yeah. You can see above you, this entranceway opens up into a five-foot wide, ten-foot tall hallway that goes to the right and left. As you emerge, it goes a little bit to the right and front, and then to the back and behind you that direction.
Travis: Hey guys, it's a Z.
Laura: What do you see?
Travis: Let me find out. So I wiggle up a little more.
Marisha: So you know the first and last letter of the alphabet? Don't worry about it.
Matt: So you squeeze out of the small entrance way and step up into it. You can see now a well-constructed hallway. You can see there are stone slabs that are carved. The patterns and the angular architecture of this hall as it comes up into a trapezoid position. The hall comes in a bit, and the hallway rooftop is a flat, even surface. This is apparently a hall of dwarven make and seems to be a continuation of some sort of structure or pathway of Thomara.
Taliesin: Let the twins take a look. I think it would be safe.
Travis: It's a well-constructed hallway of dwarvish make. (groans)
Laura: We sneak under his legs again to like see what's going on.
Matt: You guys all eventually make your way up into this hallway. Now, it is still a five -foot-wide hallway, so you're still here in single-file progression one way or the other.
Liam: Twins are already at the top looking for problems.
Matt: Right, so you guys would be able to because it's a ten-foot-tall tunnel. You guys would be able to occupy a space above another party member if you were both on the broom.
Laura: Oh, should we be on the broom? No, you should be off the broom because you might check for traps. I'll check for traps along the wall and ceiling. And he's going to check for traps--
Liam: I'll take the lower half. That's called advantage.
Matt: So go ahead and make and investigation check.
Laura: Both of us or just him with advantage?
Matt: Both of you separately because you're investigating different elements of the hallway.
Liam: 18 for me.
Laura: Investigation? Natural fucking 20!
Matt: As you guys glance up and focus on the surrounding location. The hallway behind you goes for about 30 or so feet before it looks like a cave in. It looks like a mass of fully collapsed, broken stone. You can see bits of the hallway slabs that originally held up that part are collapsed inward and broken, left scattered across the ground. The other direction you go continues on and opens into a dark chamber about 60 feet ahead of you.
Laura: We should go toward the cave in, don't you think?
Matt: There are small built-in sconces that are magically, perpetually burning firelight.
Laura: Does this seem like there's any traps that could be set off as we walk towards the--?
Matt: You do not notice anything, as you were investigating specifically for that.
Taliesin: Check the sconces, see if they trigger something.
Laura: I'll look at the sconces.
Liam: I will look at the sconces.
Laura: I'll look at them better.
Matt: I included that as your perception for traps above. You did not notice anything that would be considered a trap.
Laura: You guys, there's no traps. We should head towards this darkened room.
Marisha: Save a life, check a sconce.
Liam: I'm going to creep about 40 feet down the hall and continue that search.
Matt: About 20 feet before this darkened chamber is there before you. As you get to the edge, you can see a little bit the very inside of this chamber. You can see a darkened brazier. It's your mind playing tricks on you. You thought you heard a raven.
Liam: Every day when I'm on the crapper, Matt. Everywhere.
Matt: A cold metallic brazier in the middle of the room. And that's as far as you can see into the chamber, before the edge of your visual range goes dark.
Taliesin: People don't install those unless there's something awful that needs to be done.
Marisha: Do we have any idea how far we've climbed?
Matt: You can make a nature check.
Liam: And do I need to make a extra roll to look for traps around this brazier?
Matt: If you want to enter the chamber, you can. You're too far away.
Marisha: Hey! Natural 20! That's a Gil 20!
Matt: As you take a moment, and think back to how far you've traveled path-wise and inclines and where you entered this titan and to where the city of Thar Amphala is placed upon its torso, you gather you're close to halfway through its torso, if not a little beyond it.
Marisha: If not a little beyond?
Sam: He's big.
Marisha: Okay, all right. Nipple level?
Matt: Sternum.
Marisha: The heartburn region? A little acid reflux?
Liam: We are the acid reflux.
Marisha: He has acid resistance against reflux.
Liam: Jesus Christ. Whoever that is.
Matt: You scoot up to the edge.
Liam: I don't want to go further than roughly 60 feet away from my sister.
Matt: Right. Which will put you right at the entryway to this chamber.
Liam: Yeah. So I will peep in from here.
Laura: I follow up and stand next to him. Did you want to go in?
Liam: I did.
Laura: Feel free.
Matt: So the marching order is the same? We got the twins up the front.
Taliesin: Yeah. I like this marching order.
Liam: Let this shit blow up in my face, so everybody hang back for a second. And I'm going to pitter patter in and look around the sconce, the room.
Laura: I think I was more stealthy than you a moment ago, so are you sure you want to be in front of me?
Liam: I love you anyway. Here I go.
Taliesin: He's better at blowing up than you are, dear.
Travis: Yeah. His heart beats once a century, so let him go.
Liam: Slower than this titan's footfalls.
Matt: All right. So as you enter the chamber, it's a small, about 20-foot radius square-shaped dark iron chamber with rounded corners. So it's about 40 feet wide from side to side, 20 feet from the center where the brazier is and the corners are slightly curved. It doesn't come to a straight, hard corner. There is no exit door currently visible; the chamber comes to an end. The room looks mostly bare, aside from an eight-foot-tall, five-foot-wide mirror coated in dust, framed in intricate gold and brass that sits across the chamber on the opposite side of where you entered.
Liam: Mirror in brass. So it's an iron room, right?
Matt: Iron room with a brass edge around this eight-foot tall, five-foot wide mirror. You can tell it's a mirror from this side. What little bit of light there is behind you, you can see your silhouette waving mirrored in the mirror.
Liam: So doorway, brazier, mirror.
Matt: Mirror. And then the rest of the chamber seems fairly empty.
Laura: And the brazier is complete dark?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: It's cold.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Laura: This is not good.
Liam: Look at his fake innocent face.
Sam: I think it's just a vanity.
Liam: Going to check for traps from right here to start. All right. That's totally fine. That's a jellyfish. That is a 17.
Matt: You begin to glance around the chamber, best you can, to take in the scenery. You notice small gold piece-sized buttons or pressure knobs set in the rounded corners of the chamber on the mirror side. One's embedded within the upper left and right corners and within the lower left and right corners.
Sam: Pressure knobs?
Matt: They're like little buttons that are gold piece-sized that are embedded in the upper right and left corners and the lower left and right corners.
Travis: Push them!
Liam: Stubby, come up here. I have a real bad history with pushing buttons.
Matt: You also notice very thin light piles of black residue or ash scattered in places across the floor.
Marisha: Called it. This is a fucking incinerator. I knew it! This feels like an incinerator. No? What? He's looking at me-- (nervous laughter)
Liam: (sighs) So we've got buttons.
Marisha: Or lasers.
Travis: Incinerator or lasers.
Marisha: Laser incinerator! Duh!
Travis: That was a great jump for me and my character.
Liam: If something stupid is going to happen here, I don't want it to be on me alone for once. So we've got an unlit brazier, there's mirror over there, and buttons, yeah.
Laura: Maybe the mirror is a door.
Liam: I thought that, as well.
Laura: Should we try to walk through it?
Taliesin: Maybe a second interrogation room and there's another room behind it, maybe?
Liam: Can we get your hub up here, please?
Taliesin: I am up here. I'm right here.
Liam: Jesus!
Laura: Hi, darling. I don't know why he didn't hear you. You used to be so good at that. Is the mirror leaning or is it on the wall?
Matt: It's on the wall.
Marisha: Is it curved? No. The whole room isn't curved. It's a square room.
Matt: It's a square room but the corners curve ever so slightly so there's no direct corner and in those curved corners on the side that the mirror's on, so the far side from you, there's these little buttons in the upper right and left corner and the lower left and right.
Laura: Can I reach down and touch the iron on the ground? The floor? Does it feel warm?
Matt: Mm. It's cold.
Liam: I catch her wrist. Just a second. You two do the thinking, all right? And I take a step into the room.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: What do I do?
Laura: Go see if you can walk through the mirror.
Taliesin: Tap the mirror.
Travis: Light the brazier!
Laura: We've done that before and we all exploded.
Travis: Yeah, but it's Vax.
Marisha: Wait. Before we do that, can I reach some of the ashy stuff?
Matt: If you enter the chamber to, yeah.
Marisha: Hand me some ash. I'll test it.
Liam: I scoop some ash. Lady of the Grey Hunt, here. I scoop up some ash and I pour it into her hands.
Marisha: Okay. I do a nature check. What does this ash feel like it's made out of?
Sam: Human bones.
Marisha: Yeah, that's what I'm wondering. (groans)
Taliesin: Wow.
Laura: No. What is it? (groans)
Travis: Is it for real? You are lying!
Liam: Look at that face! You are not lying!
Marisha: Oh man. That's a one. Thanks, Gil. I blame Gil for his natural 20 in the balance of the universe.
Matt: It's light ash. You're not sure what the basis of what may have burned here. You see more of it gathered near where the brazier is.
Taliesin: Is it in piles that would be about human-amount of ash?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: All right. I'll Gil this one. Yeah, natural 20. That'll do.
Sam: Only ones and 20s tonight.
Liam: That's it, yeah. Just quarters. Heads up, heads down.
Matt: More of it seems to be around the base of the brazier, but you do see there are thicker traces at different places throughout the chamber.
Taliesin: It's organic ash?
Matt: You've dealt with different types of ash. The carbon appears to have been organic-based at some point.
Liam: I pull off my belt and say  Hello, Simon. Wake him up.
Matt: Okay. (slithering)
Liam: Hi. Gosh, it's been a while.
Laura: Simon, go through the mirror.
Liam: That's right. Go check out the mirror, Simon, all right? Off you go.
Travis: Are we still in the room?
Laura: No, nobody's in the room. He's the only one in the room.
Matt: (slithering) Scoots over and heads up to the mirror and presses up against it.
Liam: I dart back one step out of the room as it happens.
Matt: The snake trying to push up against the wall but half of its body sliding against the mirror before it eventually scoots off and lands. It tries again, pushing against the mirror and then eventually (sliding).
Taliesin: I hate to say this, but tap the button?
Liam: That's on the list. Simon, buddy. Crawl up the brazier. Wrap around it. Go up to the top.
Matt: The snake slithers around and makes its way. It's a cross-metal cage. There are inch wide metal bars that all curl up like a basket and then there are bars that cross around it to hold the shape. It looks like there are some long-burned, blackened pieces of wood that have been left for a long time. So Simon curls up into the brazier and curls up around the metal, comes around the top of the outer rim of it, rests there.
Liam: There's two buttons low down. Oh man. The nostalgia here. All right, buddy. I take two steps back away from the door. Buddy buds. Will you go push those low buttons in the room?
Matt: Which one?
Liam: There's two, right?
Matt: There's four on the opposite side.
Liam: There's two high up. And I don't think he can reach the high, because he doesn't stick to walls. Get the one over here on the left first.
Laura: What if we all have to push every button at the same time?
Liam: That's true. That could be.
Matt: Simon (slithering) moves over.
Liam: I lean over to Percy, I say  science!
Matt: Hits the button. (click) Right on the entrance of where you are in the chamber, slams closed. Iron metal now closes off that entranceway.
Taliesin: I'm going to touch the door.
Sam: And say goodbye.
Taliesin: Simon, we barely knew him. Is it warm?
Matt: It is beginning to get warm.
Taliesin: It's an oven. I'm looking for some sort some sort of cancel mechanism somewhere on the outside of the door.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Sam: Is Vax in the room?
Liam: No, I took two steps back from the door.
Laura: No, nobody's in the room.
Taliesin: Let's say that investigation was somewhere around a seven? (laughter)
Matt: It's pretty solid at this point. The walls that lean in towards the ceiling there-- it is a perfect solid iron slab that has closed off at the entrance.
Travis: No problem. I'll get it down.
Laura: No!
Liam: Wait. Simon is technically a magical item, so I don't think he would be harmed by anything going on in there, so why don't we give it five minutes?
Marisha: And maybe it'll open again.
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: Is there anything going on in the tunnel, on the outside of this door, where we are?
Laura: Coming up from behind us?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Temperature check, anything like that? Natural 20.
Taliesin: We have been gone so long!
Matt: Gone for two weeks and you guys can't find middle math. It's only extremes.
Liam: Yeah, we've had blue balls for two weeks, and it's all coming out now.
Matt: So as you guys glance back in the shadow of the tunnel behind you, nothing seems to be catching your eye. It's still dark. About two minutes in, what was once dark metal is now giving a slight orangish hue. You can feel the heat emanating from it.
Travis: There's no ash on the floor in the hallway that we are in right now, right?
Matt: I'd say, because of your perception check, as you glance around, there does not appear to be any ash.
Travis: I don't want that door to fucking open all of a sudden.
Matt: About five minutes go by as you guys are waiting. Eventually, the iron wall begins to descend. The dull orangish glow of it is still there. As it opens, a wave of heated air emerges from the chamber. You all have to immediately close your eyes. Some of you instinctually begin to step further back into the hallway. On the inside of the room, you can see the black iron interior of the chamber is also that same orangish glow. The mirror is unscathed. You all step back and watch and a few minutes pass as it slowly begins to cool off, the metal slowly darkening. You're too far away to look. You make a perception check to try and glance in?
Laura: Can't you call to him?
Liam: Simon? Come here, buddy.
Matt: There's no response.
Liam: (gasps) He's a magical item! Oh, but he could have turned back into a belt.
Taliesin: What's he going to say if you call to him? Was he going to say something?
Liam: He would come to me, Percy! Jeepers creepers! Perception check? 29!
Matt: You glance past where the button was that it hit. You see a limp belt left on the ground.
Liam: Okay, I'll get that in a minute.
Laura: When you go pick him up and put him back on your fucking waist.
Matt: Technically, since Simon's taken enough damage to revert to the belt form, Simon cannot turn back into a snake for the day.
Laura: How about that unseen servant?
Liam: I'm thinking, having no knowledge of magic, that we either want to somehow push all four of these buttons at once, as my sister said, or light this brazier, or both.
Laura: What about the brazier? Is it cold? Does it look like it's hot?
Sam: The brazier's the source of the furnace, I assume.
Travis: Are there still charred wooden pieces in the middle of it?
Matt: The pieces are still there, but it's black carbon. There's nothing in there that could burn. Whatever's been in there has been heated so much to the point--
Travis: It's not the source of the flame. Not for that much heat.
Marisha: If I was the person who designed this, why would I put a failsafe in here?
Liam: A way to get through that only the creator would know how to use?
Marisha: I feel like there's got to be another entrance because we can see another room, right?
Laura: There's no other room, it's a mirror. Oh, Keyleth, that's our reflection.
Marisha: No, I know that, but a lot of things have reflections.
Liam: Listen, all of you, or I, are going to be dead very soon. Are you sure you want to be that sarcastic right now?
Marisha: I go up to the mirror and check it out. It's cooled off enough, right?
Matt: Well, no. If you guys want to take a few minutes, you can wait until it cools off, if you want to.
Taliesin: Why don't we try pushing all four buttons at once?
Sam: Wait, before we do that, I'm going to enter the room and look around at the walls and the ceiling.
Matt: Okay, I take it you wait until it cools off. It takes about ten minutes or so for it to fully cool off, to the point where it's comfortable.
Sam: I'm looking for markings, indications of instructions, arrows, any hidden words--
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Look for Dwarvish. I'm aces with that.
Sam: Ooh, a lot. 29.
Taliesin: He's coming up with some bullshit.
Matt: Okay. Because the room is not fully cooled off, it's still warm in there, somewhat. You glance through. The ceiling and the walls all appear to be solid iron, and there's a layer of dust across a lot of it, a bit of ash from whatever previously may have been incinerated in here, long ago. As you look from the opposite side of the room into the reflection of the mirror, you see a very faint orangish glow in the reflection. It looks like, in the upper corner and the lower corner of the opposite side of the mirror as you're glancing off across to the other side. As you look over to the wall, of the room you're in, there's no glow.
Sam: Wait, so the wall that we came in through?
Matt: Let's say you enter the chamber and you move to the corner immediately to your right. You look in the mirror at an angle. You're now seeing the reflection of the corner opposite to you, right? Looking in that reflection, you can see this very faint orange glow in the upper and lower corner, but you glance over to the physical corner across from you, and it's not there.
Laura: What do your gnomish eyes see, Scanlan?
Sam: I think there's magical buttons in here and we need to find them? So I'm going to look in the mirror. I go to the opposite corner and do the same thing.
Matt: As you have this conversation and look back, those two glowing sigils are gone.
Sam: Even in the mirror?
Matt: Even in the mirror. What you saw earlier is now gone.
Travis: But they're revealed by heat.
Marisha: Where were they?
Sam: They were upper and lower corner, yeah.
Marisha: I walk over and I heat them with my heat hands.
Matt: Okay, so you take your hands and you put them up near there. As you put your hands on the wall, nothing seems to happen. As you glance through the reflection where she has her hands, that symbol seems to be appearing again.
Laura: What is the symbol of?
Sam: It's so far. I don't know. Can I see it?
Matt: It looks to be a simple triangular symbol, marked in a circle. Make an arcana check.
Sam: Oh yeah. 14 plus six, that's 20.
Matt: It's the most basic of arcane marks. It's a variation on a spell that basically is a mark that a certain enchanter or somebody places to mark as their own. However, this is meant to be a basic marker, a visual draw. There's no language behind it. It's just an indicator.
Sam: Keyleth, do that same thing to the lower one. Same marking?
Matt: As you head down there, the one above begins to slowly fade. As her hands go there, the symbol appears below.
Sam: Same symbol? Let's do that to the other walls and see if we can find other ones.
Matt: As you guys reverse, opposite sides, you go to the other corners, the ones that were immediately toward the entrance of where you walked in. Sure enough, two more symbols, mirroring where the buttons are on the far side corners.
Sam: So we push those? But there's a hidden button in there.
Travis: When you're a big fire, the walking thing--
Marisha: A fire elemental.
Travis: Sure. Do you take damage from fire? So you should be in here.
Laura: You should go in there, see if you can disengage the trap.
Liam: So you are impervious to being set on fire or burned?
Marisha: Well, when I'm a fire elemental.
Laura: Can you do that?
Marisha: Can I do it right now? Yeah. I just took a short rest, so yes, I can do that.
Travis: We also have an unseen servant.
Sam: So we're going to need four people.
Marisha: So what's the end goal? What am I doing?
Liam: Press all four buttons at once, although we've got at least three sharpshooters--
Sam: Not the buttons that we can see. What are these symbols here? I think they're buttons, as well.
Travis: It might be a depression on the wall or something.
Marisha: But what if the buttons are correlated with the symbols?
Taliesin: Let's try pushing all four buttons.
Travis: The regular buttons or the magic ones?
Liam: Please stand by.
Laura: I want to go look at where the symbol is and see if it's a fucking button.
Marisha: Yeah, if I touch the symbol, there's nothing there, right?
Sam: Was there anything there?
Matt: You put your hand on there. Nothing. The wall doesn't move.
Marisha: It's just a wall.
Travis: No depression, no toggle?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: I've got this, you guys. Oh! Minus two. 17!
Matt: 17. Grog, as you step up and glare down at the place where Keyleth had placed her palm, you get frustrated and (sighs heavily). As you exhale, it looks like a bit of soot and ash that had been slowly drifting in and filling this space flutters away. You can see two lines, parallel to each other, about an inch tall.
Travis: Fifth Element, anyone? Oh look! Breath of Grog reveals all! Look, behold! Two. Lines.
Laura: What did you do?
Travis: I breathed on the wall.
Sam: What do they do? What do these lines do?
Marisha: I do a quick Gust cantrip.
Matt: Across the parallel lines? All right. As the wind blows across it, a lot more of the soot and the ash blows around the area. It creates an open space where it pushes out to the edges and darkens areas of the floor and the vicinity around Keyleth. That edge of that corner, where you blew the Gust cantrip that Grog had unfurled, is now clear, the iron revealed. Nothing beyond the two.
Laura: I fly up on my broom and do it to the symbol up on the corner and go (blowing).
Matt: Okay. So up there. You blow on that one and it looks like--
Marisha: Hang on, I've got a paper ready.
Liam: How many people at home do you think have figured this out already?
Laura: We already figured it out!
Sam: Wait, you guys are blowing on the arcane symbols?
Laura: Yeah, to clear them out!
Travis: If you're looking at the door we came in, Grog blew on the lower right?
Sam: And that's two lines. Boom.
Matt: That would be lower right.
Travis: Two vertical lines.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: I'm in the corner above Grog.
Matt: That would be upper right.
Taliesin: I'm going to do bottom left.
Matt: All right, you blow, and you watch as the dust reveals. It's two more lines.
Laura: Two lines? Shit. I thought it was going to be another--
Taliesin: Bottom left. Getting out a hanky and (blows).
Liam: Did you use your ascot?
Taliesin: Yes, of course. That's what it's there for. The back of it.
Laura: The one clean spot left on it.
Matt: That one has four parallel lines.
Laura: Ooh! I'll go into the corner above Percy. There was a reflection there, too, right?
Sam: Blow! Laura, blow!
Laura: (blows) I looked straight at the camera as I did it. It was really awkward.
Matt: All right, that one has a single line.
Sam: Wait, so we've got one, two, two, four?
Laura: Is there one with three lines, or are there any more areas we saw a reflection?
Travis: What about above the door? It is opposite of the mirror, right? If one's a door, and the other one's a door?
Laura: Okay, I'll blow above the door.
Liam: And I'm going to start blowing around the mirror.
Laura: We all walk around going (raspberries).
Travis: Constitution check to see who passes out first?
Matt: What was that?
Taliesin: Does the mirror have a fancy frame?
Matt: It's not extremely intricate, but it looks like there's a brass or bronze frame around it.
Taliesin: Are any of these symbols mirrored in the frame itself? Is there a mirror of any of these symbols in the frame?
Matt: As you look in the actual frame itself, you don't see anything that matches the symbols.
Laura: What if these are numbers and the order you have to push the buttons?
Sam: Except we have two twos, and no three?
Laura: I know. One, two, four!
Taliesin: No, because you have to hit one, and then you have to hit the two together--
Sam: And then why not three? Okay, all right. Can we do a sweep for more?
Travis: Can I clear off the door area that we walked through?
Matt: So Grog, you go through, (rapid blowing). Blowing around. Okay. Make an investigation check.
Marisha: I take my mantle and start doing a--
Matt: You clear that archway very well, around the door. You do reveal Dwarven runes on the upper right corner, upper left corner, lower right, and lower left corner of the doorframe.
Travis: I only know Dwarven writing. I don't know runes.
Matt: Well, the runes are part of the Dwarven language.
Travis: The runes are part of the Dwarven language, so I know them.
Laura: Pike goes over and she helps you.
Travis: Help me, Pike! Yeah, I would like to decipher what these symbols mean.
Laura: "If you lift me up, I could see the ones above the door!"
Liam: "Yeah, the last time I wanted you to do it on your own, but I think we're pressed for time."
Travis: I hold her up to the upper left corner of the doorway.
Matt: Okay, so turning around, upper left corner. Okay. That one is the Dwarven rune that represents the number three.
Travis: Three. All right. Now, to the upper right-hand corner.
Matt: That is the number one.
Travis: Okay. I put her on the ground and I say, okay, look at the lower right-hand corner.
Matt: So lower right-hand corner would be a two.
Travis: And now the lower left-hand corner.
Matt: A four.
Laura: Oh, yeah! We know! That's the amount of times you have to push the button!
Taliesin: So one-one, two-two-two-two, three, four-four.
Sam: Possibly.
Laura: Wait, I think we reversed it.
Liam: How long does your unseen servant last?
Sam: Not too long.
Liam: How long? An hour? Ten minutes?
Sam: I'll look in my memory. One hour, but I have to be close to it. How big is this room?
Matt: It's a 20-foot radius from the center of the brazier, so it's 40 feet on each side.
Taliesin: Is our physicality of this map correct? If we show you this?
Liam: Well, I have this jar. It's an oil of etherealness. You could potentially be standing in here, but not be in here. Lasts an hour, though. Same time gap as your friend. You could stand in here and not be in here.
Sam: From the doorway to the mirror, is it less than 60 feet?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Oh, then I can be out of the door. Am I right with what I wrote down there?
Matt: All right, so this is the-- facing from the inside--
Sam: Yeah, from the brazier-- Frasier Crane. Looking at the door that we came in. Right?
Matt: I'm going to have to draw you one. I think you guys got confused on that one.
Laura: I think me and Travis got it right.
Sam: I think, Matt, you're wrong.
Travis: I have the same thing as Laura.
Liam: I'm pretty sure it's up up down down left right left right A B A B.
Laura: I hope we passed the test.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Did we get it right?
Matt: There, that's what you get! Sorry, I'm limited in my reach right now.
Marisha: I love that we all did something similar but all wrote something different. We're like, numbers, somewhere!
Matt: Yep, almost. Almost.
Marisha: Did you help us, or are you just saying "almost?"
Matt: I'm saying, looking back and seeing where the numbers lie and the runes in there, you have the correct configuration.
Laura: (victorious laughter)
Marisha: I think this is right. I think you have this. I think I have the right part of this and you have the right part of this.
Laura: We'll copy it and you can see what the fuck is correct.
Travis: Yes.
Laura: No, this is wrong. I'm just going to draw it. (counting)
Sam: Guys, Shadow of War! It's a great game by-- I don't know, who makes it? Warner Brothers!
Laura: Okay, so now we know the order to push the buttons and the amount of times to push the buttons.
Sam: Yes, so now we've just got to do it.
Travis: Should we check around the mirror frame to see if there's anything to dust off? The mirror frame?
Taliesin: I gave it a little bit of a rub.
Marisha: I'm going to go up and go tap-tap-tap on the mirror.
Matt: Okay. It taps.
Travis: Can I wipe off the edges around the frame and see if there's anything around the frame of the mirror, since I seem to be so good at this?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Three.
Matt: Three. You smear a bit of ash, but eventually get some semblance of shine through. Nothing catches your eye.
Travis: It's clear. We found everything there is to find.
Marisha: Grog draws boobs on himself in the reflection out of the ash.
Sam: All right, should we leave the room and have Mr. Invisible start tapping buttons? All right, we'll do that.
Laura: We step just outside the door again and let his invisible servant push buttons.
Liam: (singing) Scanlan Man, Scanlan Man. Does whatever a Scanlan can. Makes a guy, pushes buttons, Scanlan Man-- I'm out.
Taliesin: Look out!
Liam: (singing) Here comes the Scanlan Man.
Marisha: (singing) Here comes the Scanlan Man.
Taliesin: (singing) Here comes the Scanlan Man.
Sam: Would a person who cannot fly be able to touch the top buttons?
Matt: Nope.
Sam: Shit.
Travis: Well, there's no saying that it will activate if we do it correctly.
Liam: Also, what about shooting the button or firing an arrow at a button?
Laura: Yeah but the buttons are on this side.
Taliesin: How high up are the buttons?
Matt: The buttons? The top are about ten feet up.
Taliesin: So if he had something that was-- if he had a mop, basically, he could probably tap it.
Laura: The buttons are on the side of the mirror, so we could shoot arrows at them.
Taliesin: But only if we're in there and then we don't need an unseen servant to do it.
Sam: Want to give him a pole or something?
Taliesin: Let's give him a stick.
Sam: Do we have a stick in the bag?
Travis: I have a lance.
Taliesin: Yeah, he has a lance.
Travis: It's almost broken.
Taliesin: My god, it will finally be useful one last time.
Liam: We do have three trammels.
Taliesin: No! We are not disengaging a smoke alarm with a fucking trammel. There is a limit!
Travis: You have a slightly splintered lance.
Laura: Okay. Let's hit buttons. Let's do it! Let's get through this room.
Taliesin: Let's explain to the unseen servant what he's supposed to do.
Sam: Matt, can he hold a lance, or is that violating some-- he's not allowed to hold weapons.
Matt: He can hold them. He can't attack; he cannot be a combatant. It can hold things for you.
Liam: He's like a Kids in the Hall character.
Matt: Kind of, yeah. You're not wrong.
Sam: I conjure an unseen servant, whom I will name Simon Two.
Taliesin: Electric Boogaloo.
Liam: Not cool, man, not cool.
Matt: All right. There's this brief shimmer, and you watch as a bit of ash displaces on the ground where two footfalls (landing noises).
Sam: All right, Simon Two, take this lance. We're going to go tell you what buttons to press over there, good speed-- good speed? (laughter)
Sam: Godspell. You'll be fine. Hope you don't like burning alive. So you tell me what to tell him, because I don't have the paper. Upper left? Upper right? What do we start with?
Marisha: It's this. Tell him to do this.
Laura: The reflection of that.
Sam: Okay, so two upper right. Two pokes. Oh, wait.
Laura: So the upper left corner from where we're looking.
Sam: Yes, we're going to go mirror image of this, so project that across the room.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oh, that was the mistake.
Matt: Okay, so pressing the upper left twice.
Sam: Yes, mirror image of this, so upper left. Let's try that.
Matt: Heads over, holding the lance. You watch the lance wobble, and it misses a couple times, (clicking) hits the button, and it clicks inward. The lance is pulled back and the button presses back out outward into its position.
Sam: Any door?
Matt: No door.
Laura: We'll know if we push it again then we did it the wrong order.
Matt: Second time, (clicking) pulls off, the button depresses.
Taliesin: All right, keep going.
Sam: So below it, two presses.
Laura: In the corner, bottom corner.
Sam: Just like your name, Simon  two.
Matt: (clicking)
Sam: Okay, opposite corner, up. One press.
Laura: Upper right-hand corner.
Matt: (clicking)
Sam: And then below that, bottom corner. Four presses.
Matt: (clicking) (laughter)
Matt: The fourth one hits. There's a moment of pause, and the mirror shimmers faintly. You watch as, almost like a stone thrown into the middle of a still pond, begins to ripple from the center, and as it ripples, each ripple seems to fade, until eventually the five-foot-wide mirror is now an oval portal that leads to darkness behind it.
Laura: Let's go in!
Marisha: I told you there was a room behind the mirror.
Travis: Yeah, let's go. Hurry! We don't know how long it will stay open for.
Sam: Simon Two is coming with us.
Matt: Okay. You hear the faint footfalls of sound behind, and Trinket takes a moment to try and squeeze through this small entranceway. Trinket had a hard enough time getting through the incline. (moans) Into the necklace. You make your way through the opposite side, and as you all step through, the portal remains open for at least a moment.
Laura: Hey, we did it, guys.
Sam: We beat a door.
Travis: We beat a door.
Marisha: Guys, it took 111 episodes, but we bested a door.
Liam: The last episode of the third campaign will be a door that we do not open.
Matt: So the darkness you step through leads into a ten-foot-wide hallway of similar dwarven stone. Same slightly angled hallways about ten feet tall or so, about five or six foot wide. You get a few steps in and about 20 or 30 seconds after you guys make your way in, the mirror portal behind closes up.
Liam: Can we see?
Marisha: Can you see through it?
Matt: Through the mirror?
Liam: I meant where we are. Are we in pitch black?
Matt: You're in pitch black, but you guys with darkvision can see there is a staircase not too far, maybe ten feet from where you stand into this next hallway.
Travis: Iron stairs? Stone stairs?
Matt: Stone stairs.
Liam: I've got a dagger out.
Matt: All right, lights up briefly and you get a little bit of a vision beyond that, and it's gradual stone steps. They're not too wide; they're made for dwarven gait, so there are many steps that are relatively shallow.
Travis: These are dwarven steps that are relatively shallow.
Sam: We can see it, Grog.
Liam: Pike says, "That's actually right".
Laura: Is there any traps?
Matt: You're welcome to search for traps.
Liam: And I'm going to scoot 40 feet up the stairs and look as I go for traps. One. I'm taking it, but I'm still going and looking for traps.
Matt: You do have reliable talent, don't forget.
Liam: Does that oversee ones? Because I've been counting ones as ones for a long time.
Matt: The reliable talent as a rogue specifically says any roll lower than a ten you take as a ten.
Sam: Any roll?
Matt: Well, not any roll. Any ability check he has to make.
Liam: Okay, well, we wrongly assumed that ones and 20s were king, but no.
Laura: So he rolled way better than me because I rolled a ten.
Liam: That's an 18. My one is an 18 now.
Matt: Yeah, because that's one of the cool things about rogues. You guys make your way up about 45, 50 or so feet up the stairway, you keeping an eye out, no traps, nothing catches your eye as iffy or strange, and the stairs now switch back into another set. It's a small landing and then it continues upward.
Liam: Okay, but I'm only going to go 40 feet in advance. That's like ten fucked rolls of mine from the past 30 games! Anyway, I love it.
Marisha: So it's a big 180, going right up?
Matt: Yeah, it's a switchback. The staircase ascends, then there's a landing, and it continues upward and around.
Laura: Do we hear anything?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: I'll join in that perception.
Matt: So you're joining them up the staircase?
Taliesin: I'm behind. You know, the standard--
Matt: All right, so you guys are keeping up.
Marisha: Did you fuck the roll, too? Oh, what the fuck!
Taliesin: I got a 25.
Matt: Seriously, welcome back after two weeks and people just cannot-- wow.
Liam: But do you remember when we were at home and we'd go six weeks without playing and we'd spend 45 minutes trying to remember what we did, how the rules worked, what our names were, who you were.
Taliesin: Vex is right.
Travis: 25, you said?
Taliesin: 25.
Matt: 25. Okay. It's hard to discern what shifting in the distance is not the rumbling from the ever-occasional titan footfalls, but nothing seems to catch your attention. Occasionally, you hear dislodged rocks and stones clacking across the stone floor and the steps, and every now and then you catch a stone or two fall past and eventually come to rest either near or below you. You continue up the switchback stairs and lead into a third switchback that continues upward.
Liam: 40 feet in advance.
Marisha: We are following behind.
Laura: Are you looking for traps as you go, brother?
Liam: I am. That is an 18, anyway.
Marisha: I still have my hands guiding Percy, our blind human.
Matt: Leading the old man forward.
Taliesin: (old man voice) Where's Steven?
Marisha: (laughs) Where's Steven?
Matt: You do not find any other traps. There's no other issues that worry you upon this climb. You do eventually come to the top of the third switchback stairway and it leads you into a slight curved cavern. The stairs stop and it leads into a continuation of the dwarf-like hallway structure that you had below, but it is curving around now, in sections. I would say, as opposed to a gradual curve, the design in the structure here has a very rigid, geometric shape, so the curvature is in sections.
Liam: Yeah, I appreciate it as I go, and I look for traps.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Liam: Love it. That's an 18.
Matt: Okay. Coming around the edge  no traps, no plates. Nothing catches your attention. However, this tunnel comes to an end, and it opens up into a larger crevasse than the one that you previously saw that held a number of city buildings of the remains of Thomara. It looks to be about 100 to 120 feet tall, you assume, from the bits of the stalactites that you can see, barely reaching the edge of your visual range. Very faint bit of light here, bioluminescent fungus in a dull orangish color that dots the edges of this interior chamber.
Liam: And is it like where I killed that motherfucker? They were built into the cliff face, right?
Matt: Yes. This one is larger than the one you were in before, and you can see just beyond your visual range, a number of these buildings, partially crumbled in some places, some still standing obstinately against the ever-shifting interior of the titan's form, the chamber curling upward as the ceiling crawls higher and higher just beyond your visual range, and you can faintly see the images of dozens of thin bridges that weave over themselves across different levels, up into the higher portion.
Liam: I want to confirm an intuition and use my last Divine Sense and feel undead.
Matt: Okay, what's the range on that one?
Liam: 60 feet.
Matt: 60 feet? You do not sense any undead within the 60-foot range.
Marisha: I think we're in the lungs. I think we're in its chest cavity.
Liam: Speaking into the earrings; they're all behind me. I think we're in a more populous place with the undead cannibals, know what I mean? There's a very large cavern in here and a lot of room.
Taliesin: I'd be grateful if anyone got a sample of that bioluminescent fungus.
Marisha: I can get that. I'm interested.
Laura: Do you want me to fly up and get some?
Liam: We're on a schedule here.
Marisha: Well, if it's on the way. We have to go that way.
Laura: We have to go up, right? Does it look like there's openings in the ceiling?
Matt: Well currently you're the only one who's stepped into this entrance to look up, the rest of you are now exiting into the chamber.
Liam: I'll wait, obviously. Nothing's going to explode on my friends, so they catch up with me.
Matt: Okay, so they're all behind you now where this entrance is, and as you look past it, this hallway that you're entering, it looks like there was a doorway here. There was some sort of hinge on the edge that held a door that had since been broken or toppled forward. You can see pieces of the door that once held this entranceway, and a number of the buildings immediately to the right and left. That's where you stand, what do you want to do?
Laura: Does it look like there's any footprints coming in and out of the doorway that we came from?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Can I look for a doorknob or a keyhole?
Liam: Everything we were told is that this place is full of undead cannibals.
Laura: 23.
Matt: Not in a long time.
Travis: Is there shattered remnants of the door?
Matt: Yeah, you see a couple of shards here and there--
Travis: Any doorknob or a keyhole that's on the ground or anything?
Matt: Make an investigation check. Lot of investigation checks today.
Travis: Two.
Matt: You scramble about and find a couple of pieces that might be, but no, it's just more stone.
Marisha: Can I see any stairs carved in the side, in the walls, trying to head up to this-- is that what you just checked?
Laura: No, that's what I was about to look for, too.
Liam: Is there any movement, because there's bioluminescent shit on the walls in here, so there's a little bit of light, right? Yeah. 26.
Matt: 26. As you glance about-- once again, your vision, because there is very little light in here and the very, very faint bits of fungus in the distance that give you a sense of the shape of this entire chamber. There isn't enough light for you to make out any shape beyond the exterior of your visual range, so you can't really tell.
Liam: A second thing I want to look for is what other exits from this gigantic cavern. Ways through, up. Yeah, you looked, but I didn't look.
Matt: Let me finish what I was saying first.
Travis: Roll! Roll again.
Matt: But based on the size of this chamber and the bits of what small elements of structures that you can see of the architecture within, this definitely appears to be more of the heart of the city of Thomara when it was once at its ancient height. You can see at the very edge of your visual range a cracked central fountain that is empty and dry, and you see, just beyond your range, the exterior of a large temple-like building that rises out of the ability to see any more of its height and structure.
Taliesin: Temple.
Matt: But like I said, you guys are still standing at the entrance to this cavern.
Marisha: What about the temple? Why?
Sam: Want to fly through here? Can we fly?
Liam: I don't think we want to stay here--
Sam: I know, that's why we just fly through.
Liam: Find another exit, yeah, but where?
Travis: I'd like to see the temple, if I can.
Sam: What are you talking about?
Travis: Well look, all right, my gloves--
Laura: Keep your voice down.
Travis: (whispering) My gloves come from the heart of a ruined primordial titan. So if maybe they harvested pieces of my gloves, and it's in a temple, I don't know, you smart people could do something with that.
Liam: Right, what's your plan? You expect us to come up with a plan to explain why your gloves are connected to that temple, and you're going to get what? A Mighty Morphin Power Ranger bonus for doing so?
Travis: Yes.
Marisha: Are your Titanstone Knuckles exalted yet?
Travis: Yep. They're just buzzing.
Liam: Yeah, are they still dildoing on your fingers?
Marisha: Are they buzzing more?
Travis: Are they humming more?
Matt: Doesn't appear to have changed.
Travis: Nope, just humming.
Marisha: Step two steps closer.
Travis: Two steps closer to the temple.
Marisha: Do they appear to be buzzing more?
Travis: Are they appearing buzzing more?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Ooh! 19.
Matt: Not bad. Nope.
Taliesin: Is the temple on the way? Does it make sense to cross through the city, or does it make sense to fly up?
Liam: We're moving towards Vasselheim now. I'm negative on our chances of dealing with this before Vasselheim, but that's the goal, right?
Taliesin: We've got some time, and I feel like this city is an opportunity to find some more advantages.
Travis: We are also looking for the Sword of Kas. What's if it's in the temple?
Sam: Why would Vecna keep the thing that could kill Vecna near Vecna?
Liam: I'm pulling Percy aside. I hear you, but this is a city that has existed here for a long time. Vecna didn't create this city. Vecna doesn't own these people. This is a fucking mountain that existed and now they're going for a ride. What do these people have to do with Vecna?
Taliesin: It's not a city that just existed.
Liam: No?
Taliesin: This is a giant primordial beast that people inhabited. God only knows what existed in here.
Marisha: Yeah, but as we've already seen from the other tomb, it's already been heavily, heavily plundered.
Liam: And Vecna's just a user. This place was just sitting there. He lifted it up and took it away. These assholes don't have anything to do with--
Travis: Why did he choose this?
Marisha: How far away is the temple? Do we know? Can we football range guess it?
Matt: I'd say, because you guys have darkvision of 60 feet?
Taliesin: If gods really understood how this world worked, this would not be happening right now.
Matt: It's at about the 50, 55 foot areas where the wall begins, then it vanishes beyond that.
Liam: Percy, this shitbird has appeared like three times wherever we were.
Laura: Well, he's not going to be able to do that right now because I've got a fucking ring.
Taliesin: He doesn't necessarily know this place as well as--
Marisha: Hang on. How long have we been in here, versus how far have we been from Vasselheim? Because we are on a time crunch.
Travis: 200 miles away once we entered is how far away we are from Vasselheim. 200 miles. With steps of?
Taliesin: What was the average land speed of a laden undead?
Matt: You've been within the titan for, I'd say, roughly three and a half hours, maybe.
Liam: Yeah, he's 110 miles out from Vasselheim, at this point.
Travis: We have time to check the temple.
Sam: All right, let's swoop in and swoop out.
Marisha: Super fucking fast!
Taliesin: I'm not even saying look in it, let's take a look at what it--
Laura: Did I see any stairs?
Matt: You do not see any staircases within a 60-foot radius of where you're standing.
Taliesin: We might be harder to spot if we stay on the ground for now, anyway.
Marisha: I just want to say, we gave you guys the other temple, in which you found your stupid waistband, but we got really fucked up from it! Everything has a consequence and a price and shit. Nothing is free.
Laura: I'm going to cast Pass Without a fucking Trace. It's my last Pass Without a Trace, but I'm afraid--
Travis: No, don't do it.
Laura: What if we bring out an entire fucking city of undead dwarves upon us?
Marisha: Let me do it. I have Pass Without a Trace and one more 2nd-level spell left. I'll do it. Save yours.
Liam: I'm also going to put something on the table here: we're trying to save Vasselheim, but we're also trying to save the world. We might not be able to do this without recharging before Vasselheim.
Taliesin: I'm aware.
Sam: You want to go to sleep in this undead city?!
Liam: No, but we're trying to save the world, not just a city.
Sam: So sacrificing Vasselheim so that we can feel better about a fight?
Liam: What if we lose the fight Scanlan? Then who fucking cares? Vasselheim is gone. Westruun is gone. Kaylie is gone. Everything's fucking gone if we fuck this up!
Sam: Well, let's stay on the path and see how long it takes.
Marisha: How about this? Hold. Wait! We still don't know how to get up there, right?
Sam: Is that purple eyeliner?
Marisha: Yeah, do you like it? Thank you. It's a little metallic. Thank you, I bought it while I was waiting for--
Travis: Oh my god!
Laura: Oh my god!
Marisha: Okay. I hate to say split the party, but what if we split the party? What if a few of you check out your fucking temple, and then the rest of us try to figure out a way to get up.
Travis: I'm cool. I'll vote for a temple party.
Marisha: Temple party. Who else is on temple party?
Sam: They need somebody who can help them in there.
Liam: I hate the idea, but I'm the stealthiest motherfucker in this room.
Taliesin: And then you three on the carpet, you on the broom.
Travis: I need the carpet.
Marisha: So wait, just the two of you are going to go check out the carpet?
Laura: Vax is going in with you.
Sam: I feel like one person with magic should go with them. I'll go with them.
Taliesin: We're all ear-pieced.
Marisha: Okay, so Grog--
Liam: Everybody but Keyleth.
Sam: No, it's Keyleth, Vex, and Pike are going searching. The boys are going in the temple, and the girls are going searching.
Marisha: Okay, cool, I'm on board.
Taliesin: This is in no way, by the way, an amazing mirror of that one time underneath Kraghammer. They're just going to find another Clarota.
Liam: The boys all die. The girls go to glory.
Laura: I want to kiss Percy before he goes. Don't die in this stupid temple.
Taliesin: I will not die in this stupid temple.
Sam: I'm going, too.
Taliesin: I slap him in the face.
Laura: Right on, Scanlan. Sorry, Percy.
Matt: Who's traveling in what group?
Laura: Girls are going to look for stairs, the boys are going in the stupid temple.
Liam: I yank the druid in for a kiss.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oh wait, shit. Your fucking ring.
Laura: Fuck! My fucking ring! We can't split the party.
Taliesin: Okay, can't split the party. We all go looking for the stairs. Oh, you asshole, stop it! (laughter)
Laura: He was really excited about it!
Matt: I was waiting on that.
Laura: Oh my god, he was so excited about it.
Sam: All right, into the temple. Come on, let's just fucking go to the fucking temple.
Matt: I was like, you guys literally had this conversation an hour ago, but okay.
Taliesin: Whatever we do, we can't split the party (fast-forward noise). Okay, we're going to split the party.
Travis: Sam saved our asses.
Taliesin: That was Cabin in the Woods shit.
Liam: 40 feet in advance, Vax walks ahead of the group, hating himself. Here we go.
Matt: Go for it. What are you doing, you're checking for traps?
Liam: I'm checking for enemies hiding.
Matt: So as you push forward--
Laura: We're stealthed, we're Pass Without a Traced.
Matt: Okay, then roll some stealth, guys.
Laura: She Pass Without a Traced us.
Matt: Right, then roll some stealth.
Sam: Oh, we're all rolling stealth?
Liam: 34.
Sam: 25.
Taliesin: 26.
Marisha: 26.
Laura: 39.
Travis: Natural one.
Marisha: Are you serious?
Sam: He's so excited about that temple.
Laura: Natural 20 for Pike! Oh wait, she gets disadvantage.
Matt: She has the boots that make it not at disadvantage.
Taliesin: First time ever.
Liam: But that's a lot of good.
Laura: So much good for one shitty--
Matt: You begin to push forward past the cracked fountain, heading ahead of everyone, keeping an eye out for what's ahead of you. The high walls of the temple-like structure begin to reveal themselves, standing ominous over the debris-strewn streets with shattered carts and bone fragments. The bone fragments faintly quaking beneath every footfall of the walking mountain that you currently are walking through. You see long-decomposed dwarvish bodies brutalized beyond reanimation lying scattered across the broken street paths ahead of you, deep grooves marking the splintered bone. A tangled network of partially ruined catwalks begin to reveal themselves above you, carved from the mountain, contains a ghostly image of a multi-level metropolis long fallen. You, make a perception check.
Liam: 29.
Matt: 29. You can see, as soon as you get to where the fountain is, the center of the street ahead of you. Dozens of slow shifting creatures moving throughout the streets and rubble of crumbling structures. You can see now, many of the undead citizens of the catacombs are now wandering, shaken awake by the lumbering titan that now carries them within. You also see a very faint blue pulsing glow emanating from one of the windows of the temple.
Liam: Can we put the goliath on the carpet so he doesn't kick something or be himself?
Laura: We don't know that he rolled shittily.
Liam: I know that, but he's a big, blundering mother fucking asshole when he wants to be--
Travis: On the chain. Literally on the text chain.
Matt: Which, as you're saying this, you hear a (clattering), and you glance over real fast and watch as Grog is walking by and the edge of his-- which weapon do you have attuned right now? You have the Blood Axe? The Blood Axe hits the edge of a large dwarven statue that had fallen off at a corner angle and is currently being held by a small barrel, and as the axe hits it, it shifts (crashing) and rolls and comes to a rest for a second with this clattering, grinding sound. Parts of it chip and break, but most of it remains strong and sturdy upon impact. At which point, you see at the edge of your visual range, about seven of the wandering creatures go (raspy groan) and begin slowly slinking their way in the direction of the noise.
Sam: So a rock just fell?
Travis: A big statue just fell.
Sam: And is in pieces?
Matt: Parts of it are broken. It's still pretty sturdy.
Taliesin: Let's try and serpentine around and see if we can trace back.
Liam: And they're to the right or the left or ahead of us?
Matt: They're ahead of you.
Laura: Do they look like they saw us?
Liam: Go left. Jenga, jenga, jenga. Can we put Grog on the carpet now?
Taliesin: Yep.
Marisha: We're trying to go up, right?
Sam: No, we're trying to go towards the temple.
Laura: Towards that pulsing light.
Liam: We've got a little bit of business, a little bit of activity ahead of us, so we want to curve to the left.
Travis: All right, we move accordingly.
Matt: All right. So you guys move along the left and curve around the side. As you begin to move along the edge, you watch as about eight of these mostly-skeletal dwarvish corpses begin to shamble in the direction of where the noise came from. You can see elements of their long-mummified skin pulled tight against elements of the rib cage and the skull. Bits of chipped teeth, now broken against whatever things it's attempted to chew on its long un-life. As they move past, two of them glance over in the direction of Grog, and then all of them shift over in the direction and begin rushing forward in your path.
Liam: What's the distance?
Matt: At this point, they're probably about 50 or so feet from where you are.
Liam: Oh shit!
Laura: We don't want to make too much noise. I'm going to shoot a couple.
Travis: We could just go straight up.
Laura: There's only eight of them. We can take eight undead.
Liam: Pickle walks forward and takes a knee and waits with her holy symbol of Sarenrae, waiting for them.
Laura: I take two of them by surprise. That's auto-crit.
Liam: Vax does the same, watching his badass sister, and Pike waits to turn whatever's left of them.
Laura: Yeah, they're super-silent arrows.
Liam: So what happens first?
Matt: All right. She's preparing for it, right?
Liam: Yeah. She's waiting until she sees them.
Matt: Oh, well she also has darkvision of 60 feet.
Liam: So she's waiting until they're within range of her holy abilities.
Matt: What's the radius on that one?
Liam: That's a good question, because I'm a rogue paladin. (sighs) Goddamn it.
Matt: That's all right.
Liam: What if I look in the sorceror rules?
Matt: Nope. 30 feet.
Liam: 30 feet. So she's waiting for the twins to do their work and anything that's left over she's going to scatter.
Matt: Okay. All right. So as she holds position--
Laura: So it's auto-crit?
Matt: They know you're there. It's not a surprise. There's as threat, and they're rushing. But you do have advantage on the hits because they don't see you.
Laura: Well great, that's great. 20?
Matt: That definitely hits.
Laura: Okay. Oh, the other one super-duper hits. It's a 19 plus 14.
Liam: 25, 31, natural 20.
Matt: Okay. All right. So go ahead and roll damage on those. Are you shooting two different skeletons or one each?
Liam: I'm after my sister. She talked before I did.
Laura: I'll see how the first arrow hits?
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 14. Oh, I didn't Hunter's Mark. Whatever. 14, 15, 16. Two lightning damage. Do I add anything? Sneak attack!
Taliesin: Been a while.
Laura: How do we D&D? Plus ten sneak attack.
Matt: Okay. So the first skeleton, the arrow hits it and the torso explodes behind with ribs shattering and scattering across the stonework, its body falling and collapsing to the ground.
Laura: I hit another one.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Liam: Oh, and we go first, so it's advantage.
Laura: 14 plus four lightning damage. And that is plus eight.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26. This one right behind it, its jaw unhinged slightly. Its tongue made of this slick rotting material that dangles through the hole in the bottom of the jaw. Comes around the corner, and you watch as part of its head explodes off one side from the secondary arrow, taking out what remains of the center of its skull, and the body crumples to the ground. Two skeletons down.
Liam: Sneak attack hits the first time we connect, right?
Matt: Yeah. You don't have to roll damage for that one.
Laura: Oh. Sorry, I did sneak attack on the second arrow.
Matt: Well, you can do sneak attack once per round.
Laura: Okay. I did eight damage too much.
Matt: It was still enough.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You don't have to roll damage for sneak attack.
Liam: So then that one's gone?
Matt: A third skeleton now is ruined. You hit it with the arrow in the middle of the spinal column, and it folds on itself.
Liam: Okay. So paladin action-action and my bonus action. So that's the first of three. The last one's the one that was a critical hit so the second one goes onto the next whole skeleton. It's just an eight.
Matt: Okay. This one the arrow slides into the side of the skull, and it keeps coming forward towards Grog.
Liam: Okay. And then the last critical hit, which is Whisper again, because it bamfed back, is two plus eight is ten. Two and three. It's not that much. It's 15 total.
Matt: Okay. And that one does finish it. So that's three skeletons down. Grog, I want to to individually roll an initiative check for me.
Travis: Natural 20. With Gil's dice.
Matt: So as you guys are watching this happen, the other five rush in to close the gap, but you are at the ready, and you get to strike before they do.
Travis: Nice. Am I hitting them? Yeah, Okay. Reckless, great weapon master. 31 for the first one.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Okay, cool.
Matt: Your minimum damage will kill them. So as the first one comes up towards you, you swing up. As you slam into it, you watch as its bony body blows up against the side of the nearby stone building and then scrapes to the ground.
Travis: Can I use the other strike on another?
Matt: Yes, you can.
Travis: Reckless great weapon. That'll hit. That's like 30.
Taliesin: If there's anything left on Grog by the end of this, I'll try to swipe them off with my sword.
Travis: 32.
Matt: All righty. So two more detonate on this point. So there's three left. They're closing in on Grog. Does Pike want to take her turn?
Travis: We might want to save that Turnt Undead.
Laura: No, I think we should save.
Liam: I've already said it, but she's whispering to me to hold. She's half of Pike right now. You're half of Pike right now.
Taliesin: I'd like to pop in and see if I could take a couple--
Matt: Make an initiative roll.
Laura: Don't shoot, Percy.
Taliesin: I'm not; I'm going to use my sword.
Liam: Pike holds, breathing hard, looking at them coming on.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: Yeah, that beats them by one. So yeah, as the three remaining ones start charging in towards Grog--
Taliesin: I'm going to run in, draw the silvered sword, and take some swipes.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Let's take three swipes right out of here.
Laura: Pike can use her mace on anything left in that area.
Taliesin: That's one natural 20, one natural 19. Do I crit on a 19 with the sword?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Okay, never mind. And a two. But that might be enough, because I have a really high-- that's a 15 as my lowest to hit. Does a 15 hit?
Matt: 15 does hit. Yes.
Taliesin: So the 15 is-- That's 14 piercing damage to the first one with a silvered sword.
Matt: Okay. You rush up and you carve through the first skeleton, and it breaks on the ground in front of you.
Taliesin: Number two is 13 points of damage to the second one.
Matt: Okay. The second one, you bring the blade down into the skull and cleave it in half. You watch as part of its skull breaks off to the side and the jaw falls to the ground and the rest crumbles in place.
Taliesin: I twirl around and take my third wonderful pirouette attack, which is 20 points of damage.
Matt: Okay, and as the final one lunges forward, in a fervent-- strangely faster than you expect for a skeletal undead, it begins to accelerate towards Grog. And with that, you take the blade and take the head right off at the neck, and it falls and crumples to the ground.
Marisha: So it's like 28 Days Later zombies?
Travis: 28 Days Later, they run.
Marisha: He said that they were fast.
Matt: Well, the last one-- it was flavor.
Marisha: Just wanted to make sure they weren't special.
Matt: Okay. As you finish the fray and hold yourself, you wait and wait. You do not hear or notice any more advancing undead from that direction.
Travis: Okay, how about I don't move and somebody with flying ability go to check out that blue glowy window?
Taliesin: We have to stick together.
Laura: Is the glowy window within 60 feet?
Taliesin: No, it's far.
Travis: When we were at the opening, we were 50 to 60 feet away.
Matt: The temple where you guys were at, at the time was 50 feet away from you, but you would have crossed the other side of the hall. So now it's about 100 feet away from you. At this distance, you can see it's a round, almost cylindrical building, Colosseum-esque. And there's a small square window about every 25 to 30 feet. And it's big. It's large, but you can see that faint glow between multiple windows from this distance.
Travis: So should we fly up to that window?
Taliesin: I think it'd be safer to stay on the ground level and sneak. Because if we're the air, they are going to see us.
Travis: Let's do it.
Marisha: And we still have Pass Without a Trace, so let's go.
Laura: Yes, we do. She cast it.
Matt: All right, now that this brief combat has finished, those who took place in it, which would be you, Vax, Grog, and Percy have to remake your stealth checks.
Laura: You're like, "Gladly!"
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: What about Pike? Because she just knelt down. She didn't really fight.
Matt: She stepped out of her stealth. She was making herself visible.
Laura: My natural 20 for Pike, wasted!
Taliesin: 23.
Liam: We still have Pass Without Trace?
Marisha: Yes. I didn't do anything.
Travis: 26.
Marisha: Keeping that concentration.
Taliesin: (singing) Concentration. Concentration.
Marisha: (singing) Concentration. Concentration.
Liam: You're the doctor! Keep your patients on the run!
Laura: 30 for Pike. 29 for me.
Matt: All right. You guys begin to slowly make your way along the left wall of this large cavern.
Liam: 37, by the way.
Matt: Good to know. As you slowly move through the shadows, dodging through open doorways and through windows, trying the best you can to stay out from the center thoroughfare of this opening, you see more and more of these undead. Dozens, maybe even a hundred have crossed your path at the perimeter of your visual range and you can see in the catwalks above too, with the faint bit of the orange glow, occasionally shapes breaking across the orange. This entire cavern is swarming.
Laura: (whispering) Do we still have the thing?
Sam: Oh, the filter? The censer?
Laura: Do we have it in the Bag of Holding?
Taliesin: We also have the herbs.
Laura: What if we use it? What if we use it and it just repels them?
Taliesin: When it's time. We don't have a lot of it.
Marisha: Yeah, it's a very small amount.
Liam: Is it ready to go, though?
Taliesin: Let's prepare it, and when it's time--
Liam: Is it ready to go, though?
Marisha: Yeah it's dried. I spent that time. I spent time during the break.
Taliesin: It's just burning the herbs, though. We don't need the censer. Just hold it in your hands.
Liam: Do we have any sense of where we started in this giant cavern? Or are we totally fucking turned around?
Matt: No. I mean you have a decent sense. You are maybe 100 to 150 feet from where you began. Because you've been moving slowly. Staying stealthily, you're moving very carefully and very slowly and judging by the shape of the cavern and where you are currently, you're about halfway through it, or close to halfway.
Taliesin: It's good that we didn't go on the catwalk.
Matt: The temple's on the opposite side of the chamber.
Liam: Oh! All the way on the other side. I thought it was central.
Matt: I'm sorry. When you entered the entrance, the temple was to the front and to the right of you. You guys curved around the left, on the other side of it, keeping a view on it so you could see it from across the way. Are you making your way across to the temple?
Liam: So it's pressed against the opposite wall of this big place?
Sam: Are the undead all around the temple?
Matt: Further in. Nothing directly around the outside of the temple. So you guys curve around the entrance where you came and slowly make your way towards where the temple emerges from the rock wall. About a third or so of its exterior wall is actually built into the side of this cavern, and the large cylindrical-like Colosseum temple structure curves outward. You can see as you get closer to it, there's maybe the three floors to it but edges of the top wall have crumbled inward and you can see areas where it looks like it's sustained some physical damage or eroded over time. You eventually make your way around the outside wall of the temple to one of the first doorways, and it is an archway, maybe six feet tall and about four feet wide. Very simple. This is an old temple.
Liam: Is that light you talked about coming from one specific source, or all over the place? Every window.
Travis: Is there a story?
Matt: It looks to be coming from the base.
Liam: From down below.
Laura: Can we see in one of the windows?
Matt: You can look inside. Make a perception check.
Sam: Are there any bone laying around?
Matt: Plenty.
Sam: I am going to pick up two bones, give them to Simon Two, and tell him to go across the street, 50 feet away from us, and wait there in some building. Hold these bones.
Matt: You watch as two bone shards slowly glide over, then stand there.
Laura: 34.
Matt: Okay. As you pull up to the window and glance down, you immediately look inside the temple, and you see about 30 or so silhouettes of shambling dwarven corpses all standing inside the base floor of this temple. You see the silhouettes and shapes because they are all faintly outlined from the source of this blue light. You see a small, baseball-sized, bluish crystal that is resting, not in the perfect center of the temple but somewhere in the open middle floor area, and it looks like these 30 undead are surrounding it, and standing.
Sam: Smash and grab. You could go in there and get that thing, be out before they even saw you in there.
Taliesin: Also, have your unseen servant make a bunch of noise and have them all--
Marisha: Be a distraction?
Laura: Yeah, but making any kind of noise would draw large crowds.
Taliesin: We can have the unseen servant pick it up.
Marisha: How far away can he be, though?
Sam: He's 50 feet away, right now, and he's waiting to make noise.
Taliesin: What if he were to go in and get it himself?
Sam: He could.
Travis: He is invisible, isn't he?
Sam: He could go and pick it up and come right back with it.
Laura: But first don't tell him to come right out, tell him to like walk a little bit to see if they follow the light.
Liam: But what are our options if that doesn't work?
Sam: If he picks up the crystal and it doesn't work, or it doesn't move?
Liam: I want to do that. If that doesn't work, I can click the boots, and I can be there in a heartbeat and run, but what do we do next?
Sam: We need an escape plan, right? How many can fit on the carpet?
Liam: This goes back to my conversation with you, which is: are we going to find a pocket and rest?
Taliesin: Yes, but not here.
Liam: Agreed, but we're talking about Vasselheim, and is damage to Vasselheim a sacrifice needed to be ready to do what's necessary?
Travis: If he destroys Vasselheim, he does his miracle, his display of power, and he will be even stronger. That is not an option.
Taliesin: If we were to be clever, if we're at the edge of Vasselheim, the Vasselheim forces will be distracting his forces, so we'll have less to deal with, so we want this fight to happen at the edge.
Liam: So we're talking about no rest. I'm not talking about a short rest.
Taliesin: There will not be a long rest, I don't think.
Laura: There might be.
Liam: Not without him spilling into Vasselheim.
Marisha: I've been very conservative with what I've been doing for a reason.
Travis: I don't think a long rest is in the cards.
Taliesin: I've only burned one thing that requires a long rest.
Marisha: I agree with Grog. We can't sacrifice having him gain all of those followers, because then the only option would be murder a lot of his followers, which I'm not really comfortable with.
Travis: And he may be too strong at that point.
Sam: We don't need to discuss this now. We need to get the crystal and get the fuck out of here!
Taliesin: If we can pull this off without burning anything important, then it doesn't matter.
Marisha: I want to go on record and say I think this is stupid. Okay, let's go.
Laura: That crystal looks really appetizing, and I want it.
Travis: How about we get ready to leave? I'll get on the carpet.
Laura: It looks really super magical.
Travis: Who's on the broom with Vex?
Laura: Me.
Travis: No, who is on the broom with you?
Taliesin: I'll be on the broom with her.
Travis: Do you want to get on the carpet with me?
Sam: Yeah, of course.
Marisha: I have to come with you because I have the Pass Without a Trace spell.
Taliesin: We all have to be together. We can't separate.
Travis: And he can fly.
Sam: No, he can't. He's done with his wings.
Liam: Yeah, that's right.
Sam: We have too many people for the carpet and the broom.
Liam: My wings are gone. There's no wings for Vecna unless we rest.
Travis: Well, kick Trinket out of the necklace, and I'll get in there.
Taliesin: I can also climb up the wall, if need be.
Sam: We can leave Trinket.
Liam: It's fine, I still have the boots. Just the wings. It was death or wings. I chose wings.
Travis: All right, so how do we fly? How do we do that?
Sam: I can burn a spell and be a giant eagle or something.
Taliesin: Just for shits and giggles, I'm going to take one last look around to see if there's any infrastructure for getting up. There must be infrastructure for getting up here. There wasn't layers of a city on top of each other.
Sam: We could just run.
Liam: But wait, where are we going though if we get this thing?
Sam: Up away.
Liam: We have no verification of an exit or a hole or anything!
Travis: Yeah, sometimes you just got to leap, okay?
Liam: That's my entire life, but this is the last moment.
Sam: Every organ in a body has an entrance and an exit, right? Wait, no, lungs don't; they just have the one.
Marisha: Wait up, we argued more this game more than anything else. Okay, we know we still have to fly upwards, including on flying up to the blue crystally thing right?
Laura: No, the blue crystal is right here.
Marisha: Well, then what the fuck?
Laura: I don't know!
Liam: We have a plan for getting the crystal, just not how to get the fuck out.
Marisha: We fucking fly!
Travis: Who burns a spell to become an animal?
Marisha: I can burn a spell.
Travis: You do that.
Marisha: We're probably going to take another short rest, right?
Travis: Probably.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: I can recall Simon 2. I can send him across the room, make a bunch of noise, draw a bunch of people over there. You run, grab the crystal, and then we hustle out of there.
Travis: What if only half the room leaves, though?
Laura: No, you go get Simon 2 to go get the crystal.
Sam: And there's going to be a floating crystal that marches across?
Travis: They don't give a shit. Do it. I'm on the carpet. We're ready to go.
Marisha: You're on me? And you're on carpet, and you're on broom?
Travis: Percy and Vex are on the broom.
Matt: Gnomes on the carpet with Grog. You and Percy on the broom. You're transforming into what creature?
Marisha: Giant eagle.
Matt: Giant eagle.
Marisha: Not yet, though.
Laura: And then we all, within 60 feet of each other, fly up.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Okay, who's doing what?
Laura: Simon 2.
Sam: Simon 2 is going to go get the thing. Let's say they all start watching the thing come towards us. Grog, are you here? Are you with us?
Travis: Yeah, I have to be.
Sam: Can you throw something across the room to make a noise?
Travis: Yep. I can absolutely do that.
Laura: I'll prime an arrow.
Travis: I have a hooded lantern that has fuel in it. It will even burn when it lands. It's been sitting in there for four years.
Sam: This is a terrible plan.
Taliesin: This is why we hoarded it in the first place.
Sam: Guys, I'm just going to say this one more time before we do this: he's way faster than Simon 2. Simon 2 could create a distraction. He could (snatching noise).
Liam: Scanlan, only with the boots.
Travis: If they chase the jewel, fuck the jewel, and we'll leave.
Taliesin: If they chase the jewel, we can grab it and run, anyway.
Sam: All right, Simon 2. Come back with your bones!
Matt: The bones shift over towards you ever-so-slowly.
Liam: (singing) Don't worry, be happy now.
Sam: All right. Simon 2, go to the middle of the room. Throw the bones away, far, then grab the crystal. You don't have pockets. Run back to us! Away, yeah. Should he cover it with a blanket or something? Do you have a hood?
Matt: The bones begin to drift.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm not saying no.
Laura: A handkerchief to put over the light.
Sam: So it blocks the light? All right, so go put this handkerchief on the thing, pick it up, and bring it back to us. Go, Simon 2. You're our only hope.
Matt: Is Simon holding bones or a blanket?
Sam: He's holding a blanket.
Taliesin: He's holding a hanky.
Laura: He's holding a hanky.
Travis: Put the bones down gently.
Sam: Give me the bones. I put the bones down. Here's a handkerchief. You'll put it over the crystal, pick up the crystal, and bring it back to us.
Matt: Simon begins to slowly walk, the handkerchief floating by.
Taliesin: This is like those little handkerchief ghosts you would make in kindergarten.
Matt: As you glance inside and watch as it happens, you can see all the undead that are in there are standing, unmoving, swaying a little bit in place. Simon's about 30 feet out from them. About 20 feet out. They don't notice his presence. You notice that all the undead are facing the crystal, by the way.
Laura: Why didn't you tell us that before?
Marisha: Why didn't you tell us that before?
Marisha: (laughing) That's crucial information.
Sam: Right before he picks it up, hock a rock as far as you can.
Travis: Not the lantern?
Taliesin: Not the rock, the lantern. Light the lantern and throw it.
Marisha: By the way, they're all staring right at you. They're 100 percent aware of what's going on.
Matt: They're not staring at you. They're staring at the crystal.
Laura: They will be staring at us. What if we destroy the crystal? I wonder if all the undead would die. Let's keep going.
Matt: The handkerchief makes its way forward. Simon walks between the undead, and they don't even notice.
Sam: That's a good guy, that Simon 2.
Marisha: What happens?
Matt: The handkerchief moves over onto the crystal, and all the undead look over to the crystal, and the crystal lifts, and they all begin to (groans).
Travis: I take the hooded lantern and I (laughs) I throw the fucking piss out of it.
Matt: Make an attack roll. Roll and add your strength modifier.
Travis: Oh, that's good! 19.
Matt: You're adding your strength modifier to that? Yeah. You're aiming at the opposite end?
Travis: If the entrance is here, I'm throwing it in the opposite direction of where we are.
Matt: With your strength? Easy enough. You lob it. It arcs over (flame noises) and explodes. The oil spreads across the ground. Flames ignite, and the bright light that emanates from it and the flames burst, and all the undead turn over (grunting) and begin to retract away. Two of them are following Simon. Only two of the undead are following Simon, currently. The others are distracted by the detonation of flame. They look confused.
Liam: How close are the pursuers?
Matt: They're making their way slowly. No, they're much faster than Simon.
Liam: I'm throwing.
Laura: I'm going to get down and shoot.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Just the ones following Simon!
Matt: Both of you guys roll an attack.
Travis: Are they far away from the other ones that aren't leaving yet?
Taliesin: It doesn't matter; they're not paying attention.
Laura: 25. No, 33.
Liam: 29.
Matt: Roll damage.
Taliesin: They drop out of nowhere. They faint. It's going to be good.
Marisha: So we hope.
Taliesin: I thought you were made of sterner stuff, Travis. Come on. Now is not the time to get squeamish.
Laura: 24.
Taliesin: We made a solemn oath.
Sam: They were innocent.
Taliesin: We agreed, weeks ago.
Liam: I rolled a 77 for mine.
Sam: 77?!
Matt: These two skeletons almost atomize. As they're walking, they're both gaining on Simon, and as they both start reaching towards where the dull bluish glow, mostly muted by the handkerchief, is floating in the air, they (growl) towards it. You watch as both their heads and torsos scatter across the ground, like a heavy wave of force blasted them across the stonework. The scraping sound hits as the detonation hits. The flames are dying down, and... no, no other undead see it. Slowly, the stone floats past, out of the doorway, and makes its way back to you.
Taliesin: Drop it in the Bag of Holding.
Matt: At this point, Simon's getting real close to the end of his hour-long casting time.
Sam: You've served us well.
Travis: Bag of Holding. It doesn't hurt my hand, or anything, does it?
Matt: No.
Travis: Cool! We've got that.
Matt: Whatever it is.
Laura: I guess we have it.
Marisha: Nothing happened to them when we put it in the Bag of Holding? They were like, (groaning) and kept going? All the undead?
Matt: All the undead inside that were distracted by the explosion of the lantern are riled up now, and they're starting to wander around, and some of them are starting to make their way towards the entrance to the temple. Some are making their way toward the staircase to head upward.
Marisha: Are we flying?
Travis: Yes, we fly up.
Matt: All right. You go into eagle form, grab Vax, and all of you guys make your way up into the cavern entrance.
Laura: Bubble. Tight bubble.
Matt: Currently, I believe the eagle form has darkvision. Right now, you have no light source.
Liam: I do. I can say things to her. I can see.
Matt: Right, so you guys are able to maneuver. So as you guys head up into the center part of the cavern, above the catwalks, you can see as you push through, about a third of them are still standing. A lot of them have collapsed in the center, and there's edges of bridges that come to a halt where they've collapsed and tumbled down into the cavern below. You can see straggling undead wandering the catwalks and these pathways along the edges of the cavern. As you pass forward through them-- I imagine you guys are cruising through as fast as you can?
Taliesin: Trying to avoid them.
Laura: We'll try to avoid the clusters.
Matt: A few of them seem to glance up and see you as you pass and reach, but they have nowhere to go. As you begin to cruise through the center of this cavern, following it to the opposite side, it widens further, and now as you look down, faintly, you can see bits of the orange bioluminescent fungus that are growing within this city below. You can see elements of these beautiful statues that are partially crumbled. You can see small homes that litter the center of this chamber. You can see some of the catwalks that meet in the center of this actually meet in a suspended platform that contains another dome-like structure that is partially caved in. With another shake and impact of the titan's footfall, you watch as one of its suspension pillars cracks, and the entire center finally gives way and falls and slams down, collapsing into the center of the chamber, it being there for the final moment of its tensile strength. As it slams down, you watch as it crushes about 40 or so various skeletons below, and from that blast, you can see something on the interior of it was apparently explosive or flammable, and it explodes, giving a brief flash of light into the center of this cavern. Where you had the brief outside of your visual range, you now look around and see the entirety of these dozens of catwalks and the city below you. Hundreds and hundreds of roving skeletons and mostly decomposed, mummified dwarven corpses that all glance towards this explosion. Some have been blasted away from it by the impact of the detonation. Others are making their way towards what the strange sound was, drawn towards it, but you're keeping this central safe space between, where none of them can grasp or assail you.
Laura: Were there other buildings like that, ready to fall from the ceiling?
Matt: Currently, what you see is just the one.
Liam: I'm looking for gaps or holes or anything in the ceiling of this cavern or anywhere to get out. MATT; You see entrances to homes that are built into the sides.
Sam: What about a tunnel or anything?
Matt: Make a perception check. Anyone who has darkvision can make a perception check.
Marisha: I have keen sight. Does that count?
Matt: You have advantage on your perception.
Marisha: Oh, shitty and shittier.
Liam: 27.
Travis: 18.
Laura: 18.
Sam: I didn't do one.
Marisha: 28.
Sam: I'm weeping over Simon 2.
Matt: Oh. Your keen eagle vision-- wait, you said you rolled shitty and shittier and still got 28?
Marisha: I have a plus 13, plus advantage.
Matt: Right. All right, cool. So glancing through your eagle vision, you can see the top of the chamber almost seems to come to a conical shape, and as you look up to the top of it, it emerges into a completely vertical chamber that rises up and out of the central opening of the city of Thomara.
Sam: Let's go.
Marisha: I take the lead, I guess. (caws)
Laura: (shushes) Caw quietly.
Liam: Vax is trying to appreciate his last ride.
Travis: Debbie Downer.
Liam: No way! I'm not going to stop. Fuck you all. Every game until the end, motherfuckers!
Matt: As the group of you make your way up into this vertical cavern, we're going to take a break. I need to take a break, myself.
Travis: Remember, we have the--
Travis: Sponsored announcement.
Matt: That's right. We have the Shadow of War video coming up at this break to give you a glance at this game coming up that we're all part of. If you haven't seen it, or if you have seen it, check it out, anyway. It's pretty awesome. Also, for this week's giveaway, Wyrmwood, we've got a little video for you here to show you what's up and what you can do and try to win it at the break, so pay attention, stick around, and we'll see you guys here in a few minutes.
Liam: This is what's up!
Travis: Yeah! [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. All right, so last we left off, you guys were all traveling upward through various means of flight, through a peak in the central cavern chamber in the center of Thomara, the long-dead dwarven city. As you begin to climb upward through this 15-foot-wide or so upward hallway, this cylindrical cavern, you continue upward for about 50 or so feet since passing through the ceiling of this chamber, and then it opens up into a domed room. Immediately, as you fly up, you see a ceiling come up, and you have to coast off to the side. You catch yourself, hovering there as the rest of you guys make your way in there. This domed, mushroom-shaped chamber with a very thin, circular floor around the outside with the hole that you entered at the bottom. Whoever would stand on the edge there would have the opportunity to either leap into or toss something down into this hole that would then drop them right into the center of the city.
Taliesin: Weird question  if I were holding the blue gem and had dropped it down this hole, what would be the likelihood it would have ended vaguely where it ended up?
Matt: Not at all. It was a ways off.
Taliesin: Just checking.
Laura: Are there any undead around us right now?
Matt: Currently? Glancing around, you do not see any undead.
Marisha: You said things or people? Is this a body-sized hole?
Matt: No, it's about 15 feet wide. The full chamber is maybe 50 or so feet across. About a 20-foot walkway, circular, before the hole in the center.
Liam: Did you say the hole is a natural gap in the cave, or does it look made?
Matt: If you glance down and look about the interior of this chamber, it is not natural. It is all carved.
Laura: Can we look at the gem for a second, since there's no undead around?
Matt: If you want to. Grog has it.
Travis: Do you want me to pull it out?
Laura: Yeah. Can you do an arcana check on it?
Sam: Sure. I can look at it.
Laura: How big is it? Is it baseball-sized?
Matt: It's about that big.
Travis: No undead, right? No creatures, nobody that's going to (whoop) to the shiny blue light?
Laura: We can't see anything around us?
Matt: Not at the moment, no.
Sam: I remove the handkerchief. I look at it. I inspect it like a jeweler inspecting a jewel. 18 arcana check.
Matt: Okay. It's definitely magical. The blue light from it grows stronger, then weaker. Stronger, then weaker. It has this rhythmic flash to it, like a heart or something that has a pulse to it.
Marisha: How is it lining up towards the steps of the giant?
Matt: Not at all. It's much quicker.
Marisha: Much quicker.
Matt: It's cold to the touch.
Taliesin: Does it do anything to the Titanstone Knuckles?
Liam: Is it faster than my heartbeat?
Matt: It's slower.
Liam: Slower.
Travis: That's slow.
Marisha: So it's very slow, but not as slow as the rate he's walking.
Travis: Is it a cut jewel, or is it rough?
Matt: It's rough. No jeweler's hand has touched it. There are some edges that have flat surfaces; it looks like there have been things that have chipped off the stone.
Taliesin: Does it have the vibe of something petrified?
Matt: No, it has almost a quartz-like look to it. Elements of it appear to be cloudier or imperfect, and some areas appear to be clearer, and light shines through a little brighter.
Liam: It's like a hunk at the natural history museum of minerals.
Matt: Yeah, but there is an enchantment.
Sam: What about Pikey-pants? Can she detect if it's evil or good or something? Does she do that?
Laura: You should do that.
Liam: I'm going to do that.
Matt: Okay. You don't get a sense of any evil from the stone.
Sam: You said no sense of evil?
Matt: No evil coming from the stone.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to gaze into it super hard.
Matt: You look really hard into the stone as you hold it to your face, and your eyes almost cross as you glance into the very core source of this pulsating arcane energy. It's bright.
Laura: So bright, y'all.
Matt: It hurts a little bit, and you wince after a while.
Laura: I saw so many things.
Liam: She looked at the eclipse, too.
Travis: We don't have Identify or anything like that, do we?
Marisha: No.
Sam: No.
Laura: You know who had that?
Sam: No, who?
Laura: Our good friend, Tary. He was wonderful.
Sam: Who is it? Oh, the fancy fellow? He's probably dead somewhere.
Travis: I think we should try and smash it.
Sam: Don't you think that about everyone and everything?
Marisha: I'm not against this idea.
Travis: What else are we going to do to it before we face El Vecna?
Taliesin: My only other thought of how it could be useful, at this point, with what we know about it--
Sam: Is "El Vecna" Spanish for Vecna?
Travis: Sí.
Taliesin: It seemed like the undead were crowding towards it, which means that if we do get attacked by a group of undead, we might be able to shiny-object them, unless, of course, it's dangerous in their hands.
Travis: Or we spike it down the hole, and it causes a hydrogen bomb, and we shatter this titan in half.
Taliesin: That literally made the dungeon master laugh, so I don't know if that's necessarily--
Travis: It's blue, right? That is the color of hydrogen.
Taliesin: That's the color of Dr. Manhattan. I don't necessarily know if it's the same thing.
Travis: It is known.
Sam: Why don't we hang onto it for now? In a moment of peril, we can throw it or smash it.
Taliesin: Not crazy, trying to crack it.
Liam: What if it stops this thing where it stands? We're all thinking that this thing could be its heart.
Sam: Its heart?
Travis: It's palm-sized, right?
Taliesin: It could be a chunk of heart.
Laura: Is it the same color as his Knuckles?
Travis: No, these are stone-gray. This is blue crystal.
Matt: There's nothing about it that gives you the sense, based on what you've seen both outside and within the titan, that it is of similar essence to the titan, from what you understand.
Travis: It could be a soul or something.
Sam: Soul glow?
Travis: Does Pike have anything that detects a soul?
Liam: It's not evil. It's not good. It could be the thing that's keeping these undead moving.
Travis: Well, then I don't know what else to do. I think we keep moving.
Liam: I like the spiking idea.
Laura: I'm okay squishing it with the hammer.
Liam: I think that you should let me squish it, because if that blows up--
Laura: I think it's funny that we spent so much time getting it, and then we're going to destroy it.
Liam: We spent ten minutes getting this thing.
Travis: We'll think about smashing it when we take our rest. Maybe a cause will reveal itself.
Taliesin: Hold onto it for now. It could come in handy.
Marisha: It's like that dress you bought four years ago you still haven't worn. It might find a purpose.
Sam: All right, focus!
Laura: Let's get out of this dome.
Travis: Is there any writing or engraving or runes on the edge of the circle that's been engineered?
Matt: On the edge of the circle? No. It's smooth stone, intently designed to be a drop or opening of some kind.
Taliesin: Are there exits?
Matt: Make an investigation check. You don't see any doorways or passageways.
Marisha: Wait, there's not a hole that we can go up?
Matt: There's a hole that you came through to come into this chamber. Imagine a dome. You're in the chamber.
Taliesin: I literally rolled a one. I'm aware that there's a hole.
Matt: You get vertigo as you stand in the chamber.
Laura: Is this investigation or perception?
Matt: You look about, and you don't see any exit. Investigation to see if there's any hidden or not-immediately-noticeable exits or entryways.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23. As you do a pass around, looking closely along the wall, you see two small domed doors that have metal rods jammed through, almost like a small barricade that's been placed down on one side of a doorway. However, they are closed from this side.
Laura: So you could open them up?
Matt: You could.
Laura: Are they trapped? I'll look to see if they're trapped.
Liam: On it.
Travis: Also fair to assume that whatever's on the other side of that door--
Liam: 27.
Matt: 27?
Laura: I rolled an 18.
Matt: You're both looking at the same one?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Neither of you notice any traps.
Laura: All right, then I'm going to try to jimmy open that lock.
Travis: Whoa.
Laura: I already said it.
Matt: Make a strength check.
Liam: Not locked.
Laura: Two! Wait. Yeah, that's straight-up strength, not a saving throw? Two!
Sam: Two?
Laura: I'm really fucking weak. You'd think I'd be stronger pulling the bowstring, but no.
Travis: Use your legs. Really, use your legs.
Laura: Okay. I put my legs up on the wall and (grunts).
Matt: It is not budging.
Liam: Can I use my finger skills to see if it's locked? Just my finger skills. I made a perception check to see if it's trapped. Wouldn't I know if it's locked?
Matt: The lock is the barricading mechanism on it. There is no handle.
Liam: I'm going to try to sidestep this lock with my lock-picking skills.
Travis: It's a barricade.
Marisha: It's a barricade.
Liam: There's nothing to do?
Marisha: It's like steel rebar in front of the door.
Travis: Is there any decorating or writing or scratching around the door frame or wall around the door? Anything other than a portal to go through?
Matt: Not from what you can see, no. The room's pretty simple. The construction of it may be older than most of the things that you've seen in the city below and previous chambers. It seems to be built almost for function rather than ceremony.
Laura: It's a trash chute.
Marisha: That's what I was going to say. Is it a water chute? Drainage? Is this a drain pipe?
Laura: We could fill the city with water. Drown all the zombies.
Matt: One thing you do notice, which is interesting as you're glancing around at the side, looking at the ground at the bottom of it, there's a very faint groove in the ground that leads toward the central hole at the base of each of these doorways.
Marisha: Does there appear to be any other type of chutes coming into this room?
Matt: No, just the two doors on the opposite sides.
Travis: How far apart are the doors?
Matt: Opposite sides of the chamber, yeah.
Taliesin: So there's a bar. The door is barred, then?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: So break it. Let's get out of the way and pop the bar. See if we can pop the bar right off the door.
Travis: Do we want to have Keyleth there in case 900 undead zombies start pouring through, and she can Wall of Stone the door?
Marisha: I'll be with you. Yeah. I'm right behind you, man.
Travis: I will try and remove one of the doors. I don't know how to delineate between them.
Taliesin: The left one.
Travis: Sure. Yeah. It's a circle. That one. 25.
Matt: 25. It immediately comes off to the side, and when you lift it, you realize that it's bolted to the wall to the side, and it curves upward and holds it in place. This is meant to stay in place.
Laura: Wow. Really? It was meant to move? I think I loosened it for you, Grog.
Travis: I didn't get that sense at all.
Matt: As you lift it up, the door is now unbarred.
Travis: Shall I?
Laura: Yeah, open the door!
Travis: Are the hinges on this side so it looks like it opens towards me?
Matt: It looks like it opens towards you, yes.
Travis: I'll pull open the door.
Marisha: I'm at the ready for whatever.
Matt: Okay. We'll say as you entered and landed, the door on the left. Okay, so as you pull that one open, immediately preparing yourself, a couple of rocks tumble out, and it reveals a packed-tight mass of earth and stone.
Laura: Shit! Let's try the other one.
Travis: Should I punch the rubble?
Laura: No, let's try the other door first.
Travis: I make my way around.
Taliesin: We set ourselves up.
Travis: 20 on the dot.
Matt: 20. (metal creaking) It lifts over without an issue. Pull the door open. You lift it open, and a few rocks tumble past, but a slick rockslide incline continues upward, dry, no water. Nothing.
Travis: A rockslide continues onward. Slick, dry.
Laura: How big is the tunnel?
Matt: It's about four feet wide or so.
Laura: So we can fit in?
Matt: Yeah, you can fit in.
Taliesin: We have some Immovable Rods.
Matt: When I say slide, I mean smooth stone, like an actual slide. You get the sense that there was some sort of aqueduct-type scenario.
Laura: We brace ourselves on the wall to make sure we don't slide down.
Taliesin: Whoever's in the back should have the Immovable Rods, so if there's a sudden rush of water, we can create a grate for ourselves.
Matt: You envision that at one point, long ago, this would have been a beautiful waterfall in the center of Thomara's chamber that has now dried.
Travis: Dope. That's awesome. I'm getting creepy as fuck now. I've got the Immovable Rod; I'll be the caboose.
Marisha: I've got the other one, so I'll be second.
Matt: So Grog is the caboose.
Marisha: Keyleth in front of Grog.
Matt: Keyleth in front of Grog? All right. Who's in front of them?
Sam: Me.
Matt: Scanlan.
Laura: Pike.
Matt: Then Pike. All righty.
Taliesin: Myself and the twins, I suppose.
Laura: Yeah. I want to be in the front.
Travis: I'll go ahead and take the Immovable Rod out and have it in my hand.
Marisha: Samesies.
Matt: So you've got both of those. Oh, I totally forgot there was a winner for this. I'm sorry. I should do that, huh? RyanBoo, you're the winner. Danoba will contact you and get you your cherry deck box soon. Now that's taken care of. You make your way up the slide, and it's relatively gradual; it's not too heavy of a scenario. You make your way upward, upward, and about 30 or so feet up, the walls of it separate out and appear to break into two smaller chambers, like this was a breaking point where a person could enter from either side to check on the flow or do maintenance on whatever the ducting was. The slide continues upward. Vax and Vex, you get to that portion and lift yourselves up, looking right to left. It ends on one side, and it looks like there's some dry-rotted wooden crates, and to the left, a staircase.
Marisha: So it looks like a landing?
Matt: It's a brief landing for somebody who needed to come in and do repairs, maintenance, or checking on the flow of water.
Laura: Keep going up the slide or take the stairs?
Liam: Quick glance in the crates?
Marisha: No, if you're going to take a quick glance, then we have to bust them open like a proper RPG.
Travis: They're dry-rotted. They'll break easy.
Matt: They will. What do you do?
Liam: Check them out. I eat some edamame.
Matt: So you lift the crates. There are only two of them, and they're relatively small: two feet by two feet. The first one, you open up and look inside, and there are rusted tools. Long iron bars; some appear wrench-like. It looks like whatever mechanism was used as the early aqueduct system for this, this box contained materials, though you're uncertain as to what their application was into this system.
Taliesin: I'll take a glance at these things to memorize their general shape.
Travis: After you're done with them, I'll actually take them.
Matt: You go and grab a few. There's five rods of varying widths. Some appear to be ratchet elements, where they fit around different metal caps. There's one that looks like a wide crowbar that's used to hold or wedge elements separately. Very basic; nothing too intricate.
Taliesin: This is some basic shit that you're picking up right now.
Liam: That was the first crate. What's the next crate? Is it whoopee cushions?
Matt: No, the next crate you open up and it looks mostly empty, but it looks like there are a couple of rows of small glass vials, half of which appear to be broken or shattered, but there are three remaining, with a faint bluish liquid on the inside.
Laura: Does that sound familiar to us at all?
Liam: Healing potions are blue.
Matt: These don't resemble healing potions, actually.
Taliesin: Do these resemble underwater breathing?
Matt: They do. You've seen these before.
Liam: For toilet diving.
Taliesin: Emergency, yeah. Let's take those.
Travis: Okay. I got them.
Liam: I give one of them to Percy for being so sharp. I give one to my sister. You don't need it. I keep one. No, I don't. I'm barely alive. I give one to Scanlan.
Sam: I give it to Grog.
Travis: I've got one. I've got two, actually.
Sam: All right, then I'll keep one.
Taliesin: Just in case.
Travis: I've got two vials of underwater breathing.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Why is there no water running?
Travis: Any other boxes to smash?
Matt: No.
Marisha: I'd imagine because he's vertical now instead of horizontal.
Travis: And undead.
Sam: Let's keep going up the stairs.
Matt: All right. Heading up the stairs in the same order?
Liam: 30 to 40 feet in advance.
Matt: All righty. 30 to 40 feet in advance? Okay. You make your way up the staircase. Roll stealth.
Travis: Immovable Rod's out.
Liam: 28 for stealth.
Matt: Okay. Are you stealthing, as well? Are you going along with him, or are you letting him go ahead?
Liam: She's coming.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: All right, so the two of you very quietly make your way ahead, the rest of you keeping within, I assume, the range of the ring. The staircase doesn't go too far; it goes maybe 30 or so feet, and then it opens into a hallway. You're stepping up through the floor, and there's about ten feet behind and to the sides of you. There's a slight element of a cave-in to the left of you, where part of the stone seems to have collapsed, and a bit of the earth has filtered in. It's a smooth stone floor that's tiled in places. The walls continue on, a somewhat trapezoid-like angle. There are other portions of the wall that have caved in on certain elements, and there are two large pillars that mark the center of this hallway, either used as support beams or decorative, but they go from ceiling to floor. You glance over the side, and you see a distant staircase on the far end of this hallway, maybe 80 to 90 feet from where you are, if not further, with larger stairs. You've seen some of the dwarven-based ones. These seem to be a little more grandiose as they lift up higher and higher. Part of that hallway is completely collapsed; it's a wall of fallen earth. But there's a hole carved out of it. There's a tunnel that has been pushed through. You hear this very faint buzzing sound. Very faint. This (low humming). A very faint vibration. You also see a figure stepping from a side wall crevasse, an opening of a similar shape to the circular opening in the wall.
Liam: I hide.
Laura: We were stealthed.
Matt: You guys were stealthed. You re-hide, while stealthed.
Liam: That's what I do.
Matt: You hear some muttering across the way in the shadow. There's a faint source of light that looks like a glowing orb that's floating in the air above and giving this faint greenish-white light; a bauble that's giving a light source to whatever this cloaked figure is. You hear the muttering, and two more walk down the staircase to join them. You recognize, from the faint bit of light, a glimmer of metal around the neck of one of them that is the symbol, the hole with the metallic fork. You see Remnants of Vecna.
Sam: Remnants?
Matt: You don't see any faces. You see a glimmer or shine on the metal from the light cast from the bauble.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: What?
Taliesin: This can't be happening right now.
Liam: We don't recognize faces? We don't see faces?
Matt: You see hooded figures that are walking in. There are three of them.
Marisha: Oh, so they're cultists.
Matt: Okay. So which ones are you aiming at? There's three of them.
Laura: I'm aiming at the first one I saw.
Matt: Okay, the first one you saw just stepped out of the center of the hall there, and then the two others walked down the hallway. You're aiming at the one that came out of the side of the wall?
Laura: Has he seen the two coming down the stairway yet?
Matt: There's been discussion over the shoulder. They seem to be aware of each other's presence, but they haven't come together to engage as three in the same area yet.
Liam: I will follow my sister's lead. If she attacks one, I send one to another one and two to the third.
Laura: I'll attack the first so he can take the second.
Liam: One. Two, three.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: These are auto-crits, though, because we are surprising them.
Matt: This is true.
Laura: Can I Hunter's Mark him?
Matt: Yes, you can Hunter's Mark him.
Laura: Oh, so we don't have to roll for attack? It's an auto-crit.
Matt: Well, no, you still have to roll to see if you aim. You have advantage on the attack.
Laura: 27.
Liam: 27 on my first.
Matt: Okay, both hit.
Laura: Second attack. Oh my god, 20. 20 on the second attack.
Matt: Okay, that hits.
Laura: I got a one on both. Thank god they were both at advantage.
Liam: 27. 19, 25.
Matt: Okay, all three hit.
Laura: And they're all critical?
Matt: No, the first one crits.
Liam: Oh, really? Okay. The first is sneak attack.
Matt: They're not all crit. Once you hit the person they are no longer surprised.
Laura: Okay, so the first one is a crit. Solid! That's okay.
Marisha: Yeah, I feel so bad for you.
Liam: You are the most powerful person at this table.
Laura: 14, plus six lightning damage. Oh wait, you know what? Should I single out the lightning damage or say what all the damage is?
Matt: Well, it's an auto-crit, so lightning damage is doubled, as well.
Laura: So it's 12 lightning damage.
Matt: Right, plus whatever your sneak attack damage is.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's happening.
Travis: You already did 40 point of damage without doubling.
Laura: Don't do that.
Sam: Travis, shut up! These two and their gigantic damage rolls.
Taliesin: Huge, mammoth.
Sam: Huge, bulbous.
Taliesin: Turgid.
Laura: I had already rolled that, but it was a six again, so 40, plus 12 lightning damage. On the first.
Matt: 52 points of damage.
Liam: I got 48 on my first, but that's it. 48, done.
Laura: I didn't do Hunter's Mark damage on that first guy.
Matt: This is on the other guy; the second guy.
Laura: Add ten because of Hunter's Mark on the first one.
Marisha: Little bit of that reach around.
Sam: The dice smell a little bit.
Liam: 48. 20, ten.
Matt: So 48 on your critical.
Liam: That's the critical. That's the dice damage. I rolled really low.
Matt: 20, ten. Okay, then. All righty. Are you shooting the same guy, Laura?
Laura: Yes, I was all on one, unless he went down. Would I notice?
Matt: No, he did not go down.
Laura: Okay, then the second one. 21 on the second one.
Matt: That does it.
Travis: How much damage? Total.
Matt: Total on that round from you would have been 110 with the first hit between the two of you on the first guy and the second hit. So the one that was off to the side, who is leaning forward, hunched over, and looking over his shoulder. The first arrow goes into the throat and he reaches for it, and as he does, the dagger (impact) into the face, into the socket where there is no eye, which then looks up with a groan. Finger goes out as soon as the second arrow takes the other eye out, and then falls back down to the ground, dead. Pointing your direction like (gasping). As soon as the two other daggers go into the other two, they both see the one crumple to the ground, the two left there, the guy who is standing at the stairs--
Liam: May I also dump some poison?
Matt: Sure, into which one?
Liam: Into the first one. I did one into my first target and two into the second; the poison would have gone into the second person. It's a DC of 15.
Matt: All righty. DC of 15? Yeah, that succeeds. 16.
Liam: So nothing, right?
Matt: Nothing, yeah.
Liam: Balls!
Matt: As soon as the one crumples to the ground and the two other daggers into the other two that are there, they (grunt). They see the one fall. The one in the center of the chamber glances over his shoulder and says, "It seems I'm the lucky one. Odell, run back and tell that Viskorad found sneaky prey." The one immediately to the left begins to run up the stairs.
Laura: Can I shoot him again before he runs away?
Matt: Nope because you took your turn. This is their reaction.
Sam: Oh shit. You need help, Matt?
Liam: Initiative!
Matt: We're about to roll initiative, motherfuckers.
Laura: Sorry, guys. We did it.
Marisha: Viskon? We've heard the name Viskon before.
Sam: We've also heard the name Odell.
Liam: Yeah, Odell.
Marisha: Odell comma tell Viskon we have visitors. Wait, when did we hear Odell before?
Liam: I just know we've heard it.
Sam: There's been three Jamieson's in our campaign, too. Matt isn't an infinite fount of names.
Matt: Everyone else is still down the stairs right there.
Laura: I wonder if we should have let them talk for a second. Oh, well.
Liam: That's not our way.
Matt: Apparently not, as recent events have shown. So now, I need everyone to roll initiative.
Travis: Don't fuck me, Gil.
Laura: No, it's okay. I've got advantage.
Marisha: Don't let them leave. I agree with that.
Taliesin: Leave one of them alive, but don't let them leave.
Liam: Not good for Pike.
Marisha: Did everyone roll shittily?
Travis: No.
Matt: 25 to 20?
Laura: 23.
Travis: 21.
Liam: Get that long range. Get that runner.
Matt: 20 to 15?
Sam: 18.
Marisha: 15.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: What's up, bro?
Liam: I'm not fast.
Taliesin: 13.
Liam: 13.
Travis: That's weird for you.
Taliesin: It's almost as low as I can go.
Matt: 13 for Pike? No, that's Vax. What's Pike?
Liam: Pike clocked in at four.
Matt: Pike is clocking in as Pike.
Liam: Yeah. Where's the remix of this song?
Taliesin: I know. (beatboxes)
Matt: All righty, so beginning of the round. Vex, you're up first.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to cast Grasping Vine around here, so he can lash up and try to catch that wizard, the cloaked guy that's running away.
Matt: What's he have to roll for that?
Laura: He has to roll a dexterity save above 15.
Marisha: Get it! Get it, son!
Matt: That's an eight. He is running up the stairs.
Laura: So it snatches his ankle.
Matt: And then drags him.
Laura: Backwards. Then I'm going to shoot him twice.
Matt: All right. Go for it.
Taliesin: Not that one. That one looks like he knows too much.
Laura: What is that? 32.
Matt: 32, that hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: 14, plus four lightning damage. I don't get sneak attack on this guy, though?
Matt: No.
Laura: Okay. 14, plus four lightning damage, and then I'm going to hit him again. That is also a 32. No, that's-- well, it's very high. 27? 28
Matt: 28. All right, that hits. Roll damage. Grog, you're up next. You're in the back of the marching order.
Travis: We're not up at the top, are we?
Matt: No. So you've got at least 25, 30 feet before you can get to the top there.
Laura: 12, plus six lightning damage.
Matt: Nice. All right, 36 points of damage in one round. The arrows (impact) as he is pulled through the rock and rubble by the Grasping Vine that is currently wrapped around him.
Laura: I am going to use my movement to stand behind this little pillar right here.
Matt: Okay, go for it. Grog, you're up.
Travis: As I hear the sweet melodical Miami Vice tunes of warfare being played, can I double dash up past my mates and into the fray?
Matt: Sure, so at 30 feet, it'll get you right at the edge of the stairs. Still have 20 more feet you can go.
Travis: Yeah, straight towards them.
Matt: All right, so that's there.
Travis: Then can I use dash to go the rest of the way?
Matt: To close the gap there? Sure.
Travis: Now, I only have my bonus action left, so can I go into a rage?
Matt: You may, yeah. All righty, so at that point you go into a rage.
Travis: That's my turn.
Matt: All righty, so now it is his turn.
Marisha: You have that guy? But this guy was the runner, I thought.
Taliesin: Yeah, but he's vined.
Marisha: Okay. He's currently grasped.
Matt: Okay, as soon as you rush up into his face, you hear the individual, the hood pulled back at this point. You see shaved entirely bald, older, late fifties to early sixties, missing one eye, but in that socket you can see a faint spark of arcane energy. Shouting out amongst the space, "Glory and reward is mine! Wraiths, go forth and devour, while I bring oblivion to them." As you rush up, is going to cast Wall of Force right in the space between there.
Marisha: Between him and Grog?
Laura: (singing) The space between.
Sam: (singing) Your wicked lies.
Matt: It pushes you back five feet, and now there is a Wall of Force that is blocking that side of the hallway from where he is.
Marisha: Him and the other guy? Or just between him? How big is it?
Matt: Sorry, the entirety of this chamber is the Wall of Force.
Marisha: Fucking fuckface.
Travis: What does Wall of Force do? Can I walk through that shit?
Marisha: Yeah, it just might hurt.
Travis: Will it?
Matt: As soon as the wall appears there, you see a slight short barrier that forces you back about five feet. You catch your back foot, and now as the barrier finishes shimmering, it's invisible. Looks like there's nothing there. He's grinning from there. He glances over to the right into the hole in the wall where his friend was earlier.
Travis: Which was that way, right?
Matt: As he glances over, he goes, "Odell, bring me the sphere." You hear the humming noise, the faint humming vibrational noise, now louder. That ends his turn. Actually, he is going to take a step back up onto the stairs there. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'm up? What can I do?
Matt: You're 20 feet down from the staircase.
Sam: My speed is 25.
Matt: That'll get you right up to about there, with five-foot steps.
Marisha: Don't let them leave!
Sam: Oh god, this looks like a crazy thing.
Travis: (counting) 60 is how far away he is.
Sam: Wow. There's a Wall of Force. Do I see a Wall of Force?
Matt: You don't. You actually rush up, and it looks like it's an open hallway right now.
Sam: Okay. I see Grog in attack mode, right? I see these two bad guys. I will send a Lightning Bolt at somebody.
Matt: Which one?
Sam: Looks like I can't see this guy because there is a pillar in between, so the other guy.
Matt: That's true, so it'll be that guy. All right. You'll have to move off to the side, or else you're going to hit Grog with the Lightning Bolt. It's going to be hard. He's up a few steps, though. You could probably aim it above and hit him without Grog. I'll let you do that. As you get to the top, you release your bolt of lightning. (crackling noise) It arcs forward, and as it gets right above Grog, it hits something solid and splinters. No effect.
Liam: So this Wall of Force visually is floor to ceiling?
Matt: You don't know; you don't see it. He saw a faint shimmer because something pushed him out of this space, but right now you have no visual perspective. That's going to end Scanlan's turn, I believe. All right. The other guy, who is currently held by the vine that falls limp off of his body--
Laura: It falls limp off of his body?
Matt: Well, it doesn't wrap around or keep him held. Every turn, it can pull something towards it. He's going to glance over towards the side, listening to what the other, Viskorad, said. Okay. At which point, that humming gets louder and louder.
Taliesin: He had the map. If he built the map, there's a way out.
Matt: You watch as a two-foot-wide black sphere of void-like nothingness comes carving through the stone wall immediately to the left of you, Grog, leaving a completely disintegrated form roughly the shape of its sphere. It's coasting in towards and into your space.
Travis: It's a Sphere of Annihilation.
Liam: Yes, it is.
Taliesin: Oh shit, son!
Laura: Oh god!
Sam: Is someone controlling it?
Matt: So Grog, I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: Oh my god, roll so well! Do you get advantage?
Travis: I do. I have Danger Sense. It fucks you up. Yeah, it hurts real bad.
Sam: I see this happening, right?
Travis: 16.
Matt: 16, okay. You manage to duck out of the way as it enters the space, and you can feel this weird energy. Your beard is almost being pulled toward it, and the loud vibrating (vibration) hum before you. It's like staring into an absolute nothingness.
Travis: Take my life, but not my beard.
Marisha: Who looks like he's controlling it? Odell?
Matt: The guy who is being pulled by her is concentrating and moving it over, at that point.
Laura: Oh, the guy in red? The guy in red is controlling it!
Matt: All right. That's going to end his turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: (yells)
Matt: I've got to rest for a second. Controlling enemies hurt. It's okay.
Sam: We can get dudes behind you to hold you up.
Matt: We'll see how I can do it. Keyleth, your turn.
Marisha: Oh my god. So much has changed from what I thought I was going to do.
Matt: You're about 25 feet down the staircase.
Marisha: Yeah. So I come up from the staircase.
Matt: Okay. That gets you up to the edge there, where the staircase stops.
Travis: Does the Sphere of Annihilation get an attack of opportunity if I run away?
Taliesin: Probably not.
Sam: Is it a thing? Is it a weapon?
Matt: It's a black sphere of void. One of the guys is looking focused, concentrating on it, and it moved under his willpower in the direction of Grog.
Travis: It's real bad.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to come up. I'm trying to think of what I have in range, and I'm terrified. And I'm going to stick with my original instinct and do Wall of Stone and try and wall these guys in so they can't run. I think they can still carve through it with their big black death orb now.
Travis: They can, but at least they'll be here.
Taliesin: They'll have to move the orb to do that.
Marisha: Okay. I can do ten ten-foot by ten-foot panels, so I want to be a semicircle block off, bring up a whole wall of stone behind them.
Matt: Okay. Hold on a second.
Travis: Who can get to the other side? You have Dimension Door. But that's it, right? That's the only person that has that kind of a thing.
Matt: As you attempt to concentrate and create a Wall of Stone, you are unable to pick a point or an area beyond the barrier.
Travis: The Wall of Force? No!
Laura: Say it again?
Travis: And you need to focus, or is it a random?
Matt: It doesn't fizzle the spell. You have no area to release it on. The barrier, while invisible, is preventing targeting a specific area to create.
Taliesin: We need to dispel this shit.
Marisha: I do have Dispel Magic.
Matt: You've used your action to attempt it. You didn't lose the spell slot, but you spent your action attempting it.
Travis: Hey, man. That was a nice try.
Marisha: Can't cast through it.
Laura: Good to know. But the orb went through it?
Matt: No, the orb is on the other side.
Marisha: Even though it's a nature thing, going up underneath there, I can't get around it? No?
Matt: You're targeting on the other side of the wall. It has to be in visual range for you to create it to happen.
Marisha: (singing) I'll see you on the other side of the wall. (laughter)
Matt: All right. That's Keyleth's turn. No, sorry. At the end of Keyleth's turn, you hear this (breathy noise) sound as these two shadowy figures emerge from the nearby walls.
Liam: Ghosts! Shadows!
Travis: No. What? Ghosts or wraiths?
Marisha: Wraiths.
Liam: There's ten different kinds of things like that.
Marisha: Hey, was wraiths what fucked me and you up when we were evil Vax and Keyleth?
Taliesin: Oh shit, and look what they're doing!
Matt: This one hovers over and lands behind Keyleth. And it's going to attempt, as it seems to shift through the pillar--
Marisha: I look over my shoulder and go  Oh no!
Matt: This one here stays within the pillar, and it reaches out, as it's incorporeal, and strikes at you. That is 24 against you, Vex.
Laura: That hits.
Matt: All right. You suffer 21 points of necrotic damage, and I need you to succeed on a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Fuck! Come on.
Travis: My fucking god!
Sam: It's a 20? (screaming)
Matt: All right. Well, you suffer the 21 points of necrotic damage, and your maximum hit points are reduced by 21.
Laura: Forever?
Matt: Until you finish a long rest. The other one's striking at you, Keyleth. That is a 16.
Marisha: Misses!
Matt: That's right, because your AC is 17 with the ring.
Marisha: That's right! I leveled up, motherfuckers!
Matt: All right. Cool. Technically, leveling up didn't affect your AC; however, calculating the magic item did.
Marisha: But I feated, so I'm good!
Matt: I know. So as it swings toward you, its claw streaks out and has no effect. And then they both vanish. You want to take an attack of opportunity? You can if you'd like to.
Marisha: War Caster?
Matt: War Caster. You can attempt to cast a spell on it as a reaction, if you'd like. This one's going to back away into the wall, as well. Vex, you also get an attack of opportunity if you'd like, with a melee weapon.
Marisha: Does it have to be a bonus action?
Matt: No, it can be an action. That's part of the War Caster feat.
Laura: I have a dagger, but I don't even have it drawn.
Matt: Then yeah, you're fine.
Liam: They're both out of visual range, right?
Matt: They both are now backing up.
Liam: One's in a pillar, and one went through a wall. Are they moaning and shit, in the wall?
Matt: You can't hear them.
Liam: I can't hear them. Can't see them, can't hear them. All right. Thanks.
Matt: No worries.
Laura: I have resistance to necrotic damage, by the way.
Matt: You do! Then you take ten points of necrotic damage, and your hit points are only reduced by ten.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Sorry, I'm trying to figure out what would be a good idea right now.
Taliesin: I have no ideas for anything.
Marisha: I have never done this before, but I have it learned. I will Ice Knife it in its face. Ice Knife! Level one, you create a shard of ice, fling it at-- oh, it's a flingy-thingy. But it's 1d10 piercing damage, and then it explodes?
Matt: Okay. It's right next to you. She has the feat where she can cast the spell as a reaction when something comes at her. Just know that whatever you're hitting is right next to you. So if it explodes, does any radial damage, it might come back and hit you.
Marisha: No, hit or miss, the shard then explodes, the target and each creature within five feet of the point where the ice explodes. Oh. I'm fine. I'm doing it anyway.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll to hit.
Travis: And Scanlan's in five feet of her?
Laura: No, he's behind her.
Taliesin: Oh, for fuck sake.
Marisha: What's wrong with us?
Laura: Wasted all of our 20s on goods.
Matt: Tonight is ridiculous.
Marisha: One.
Matt: All right, so as you release the Ice Knife, it slams into the wall. No effect. However, it does still explode, right?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So it does what damage?
Marisha: 2d6.
Matt: 2d6 damage. So go ahead and roll 2d6. To both you and the creature?
Taliesin: Yeah, all creatures within range.
Marisha: Technically, reroll ones. Three, four, five, six, seven. Yeah, each creature. Hit or miss, the shard then explodes.
Matt: All right, so you take seven points of ice damage, and it hits the wraith. However, the cold damage doesn't seem to have as much of an effect as you would expect.
Laura: It's a fucking wraith!
Matt: That ends their turn. Percival, you're up.
Taliesin: I hear a whole bunch of commotion, so I'm going to pop my head up out of the hole and see what the fuck is going on.
Matt: All right. You glance up and get just beyond where Keyleth is, pushing past. You have five more feet you can move if you want.
Taliesin: Well, I'm coming up the hole. I take a look. Oh, sweet god. I'm going to take a shot at the guy I see up on the table there.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: That's better.
Matt: Which guy?
Taliesin: Yeah, the gray. And that's 28?
Matt: Okay. (gunshot) You fire a shot and watch as it detonates against some sort of invisible wall that you didn't see was there before, scattering helplessly against the space in the air.
Marisha: I hate this force field shit.
Travis: It explodes near my head, and I'm like Stop shooting into this thing!
Taliesin: I'm going to drop back down the hall.
Matt: All right, you get right back down to right there. That ends your turn, Percy? Vax, you're up.
Liam: Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to dance through to here, where I can see Grog and these guys, and I can see all my friends here, and I'm going to hold my action to attack anyone who comes right up to one of my friends within striking range.
Matt: Okay, good to know. Perfect. Ending Vax's turn, Pike's up.
Laura: Pike comes running up the steps.
Matt: She can get right up to here, and that's as much as she can move. She can still cast a spell if she wants to. She's going to cast Beacon of Hope for all of the allies within range, which is 30 feet.
Matt: All right, so that is everybody but Grog.
Laura: Sorry, Grog.
Travis: That's my fault.
Laura: That gives everybody advantage on wisdom saving throws and death saving throws, and any time you're healed, you regain the maximum number of hit points.
Sam: Even if we move out of the radius?
Matt: It affects everybody at that moment, and then you carry it with you.
Laura: Wisdom and death saving throws.
Liam: You got glitter-bombed with holy goodness.
Marisha: Wisdom and death plus what?
Laura: And full hit points when you get healed.
Taliesin: You don't roll; you get the max.
Marisha: Beautiful.
Matt: Okay. So ending Pike's turn brings us to the top. Vex, your turn.
Laura: Oh, great. Well, I've seen all the things explode. Fucking hell. I'm going to pull out my Vecna symbol, that necklace that we still had, and put it around my neck, because that fucking sphere is out and I don't know if it matters.
Matt: Okay, so you quickly throw it around your neck.
Laura: Do I still have control of the vine?
Matt: Currently, yeah.
Laura: Okay. And it's on the other side of the force?
Matt: This is true.
Laura: So I'm going to use it and I'm going to try to grab a hold of the guy-- the guy in gray is holding the force wall, right? But it probably is a concentration. The guy in red is holding the sphere.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: The guy in red is holding the sphere. I'm going to try to knock him down and see if I can break his hold on the sphere, maybe? Is that stupid?
Matt: He does not make his save. He isn't moved. It wraps around him and pulls him tight against the area where it is again, but it's barely shifted him, so he gets moved a few inches, but doesn't seem to affect him at all.
Laura: That's a bonus action. I still get an action.
Matt: Yep, and movement.
Laura: And movement. Oh god. I'm going to spread out. I'm going to come over here, maybe? Or here. Oh jeez. I don't know. I can't hit anybody! I'm going to wait. I'm going to hold my action until I see something getting through that fucking force wall.
Taliesin: Until there's something to hit.
Laura: So that I can attack him.
Matt: Sounds good. All right, Vex, that's the end of your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'm going to try and run through the Wall of Force. It's only five feet of my movement, and we'll see what happens.
Matt: All right, you slam face-first into a stone wall. Immediately, the anger fills through you, the familiar smell and taste of iron-like blood as you seem to have busted some element of your nose in the impact.
Travis: Probably some eyelids? Do I go anywhere? Not even an inch?
Matt: No.
Travis: What if I channel all the rage from my life, and I draw on the undead? Okay, cool. I'm going to turn around and run the other way.
Marisha: You didn't get through?
Travis: No, it didn't even give, apparently. (counting) 50, right there.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn, Grog?
Travis: Yeah, that ends my turn.
Matt: This guy turns around and begins to make his way up the stairs and move double dash, and disappears up the stairs.
Marisha: (screams in frustration)
Travis: We can't do anything. Nobody knows Disintegrate or anything?
Marisha: Whose turn is it?
Matt: That finishes that guy's turn. It is now Scanlan's turn.
Sam: I'm going to take a few steps forward. I will inspire Grog, I guess.
Travis: Or yourself.
Sam: I'm okay.
Travis: Really? Okay.
Sam: I'll sing to him. (singing) Don't mess with that big black ball, it can really fuck you up. I really hate that big black ball, all it better do is miss you, make it miss you.
Matt: Oh my god, that was not my intent in creating this encounter. Take your d12 inspiration die.
Travis: Thank you.
Sam: And I guess I'll Dimension Door, try to go through the Wall of Force. We've tried this before, Matt. Who knows how this shit works?
Travis: And the previous ruling was it worked.
Sam: Yeah, but that could have been a gentle nod.
Matt: The wording is important on this.
Liam: I think the cultist shits his pants and his brain explodes. I think that's in the book.
Matt: I've had to look this up very carefully. With elements like this wall, it's a targeting thing. You cannot target something that is in full cover, total cover, which being behind a wall is. Teleportation, however, you're the target and Dimension Door and Teleport is unaffected by that.
Sam: Matt fucking hates this.
Marisha: Get the runner!
Sam: I don't know where the runner went.
Marisha: He went that way.
Sam: I don't see him, right?
Matt: You saw him run away, you just don't know where he is at the moment.
Sam: Can I gauge roughly how far he went down that hall? Do I see down the hall?
Matt: Not from where you were over there.
Sam: So I'm going next to the red guy.
Liam: Also, if you get out of range of Vex, Vecna knows all.
Laura: Oh yeah. Stay within 60 feet.
Matt: All right, so you Dimension Door there. That's your action.
Sam: That's my everything.
Marisha: We've got to take out these guys' eyeballs.
Matt: That's the end of your turn. At which point, Odell, who's standing there currently, is physically sweating, concentrating on this sphere right now. Looks over and sees you appear and goes, "Viskorad, the little one made it through!"
Sam: Who are you calling little?
Matt: At which point, you glance over your shoulder and you can see that the darting, cloaked one stops and spins and faces towards you.
Sam: That's not good for me, guys.
Marisha: It's not good for you, but it's good for us. Fuck them up!
Travis: Oh god.
Matt: That's as far as they can get. However, it completely disintegrates the central pillar. It is obliterated, like it lays with a top part and a bottom part, but wherever the sphere passes through, about a good six inches around it is turned to dust and is gone.
Laura: Oh my god, what if we fail these rolls?
Matt: He's then going to go back around--
Taliesin: No, he's grappled.
Liam: No, he's grappled.
Matt: No, it doesn't grapple. It just moves things toward it.
Marisha: You're confusing Entanglement with Grasping Vine. Two totally different things.
Matt: He's backing up, and he's looking over at the sphere, concentrating on it. You can see the beads of sweat pouring down his face, and he's glancing over nervously at you, but smiling at the idea that his friend is returning. That's going to end his turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. Seeing Grog slam into that. Ugh, fuck. This is a pretty beefy spell, yeah? Force Wall? Should I do fifth or sixth level to dispel this? Okay. Fifth or sixth level? Sixth level. I'm going to Dispel Magic this wall.
Matt: Okay. As you focus and concentrate, you release the essence of the Dispel Magic, the burst of arcane energy casts forth, and falls harmlessly against the exterior.
Laura: It's a higher level.
Liam: It's a higher level.
Marisha: Higher than sixth level? The spell.
Matt: Didn't appear to have an effect on the wall.
Travis: Come on, maybe it needed to be something else.
Liam: No. He did what Scanlan does with Counterspell. He beefed it up.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You can move.
Marisha: It's higher than seventh level? Did you have to roll?
Matt: No effect on it.
Taliesin: Okay, it's going to be okay. Everything's okay.
Liam: So about that long rest...
Marisha: I don't know now, you guys.
Laura: We're fucked.
Marisha: I move forward. I guess. I don't want to move that far forward. No, I don't move that far forward! (laughter)
Marisha: I don't want to die!
Matt: That finishes your turn, Keyleth?
Liam: (singing) I want you to be alive.
Liam: (singing) I want you to be alive.
Marisha: (singing) I want you to be alive.
Laura: Oh no, here they come.
Taliesin: Oh no, here they come.
Matt: They take minor damage being in the physical wall, but that's fine with them.
Liam: Boom, I attack! Sneak attack on the one near Keyleth.
Matt: Emerge. All right, so the one near Keyleth. Go for it.
Laura: What was I holding for? I was holding until I could attack something, or until I could get through the wall? I think it was through the wall.
Matt: The wall.
Liam: All right, 27 on that guy.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Okay. So that is three, plus three is six, so ten. (counting)
Taliesin: If we can hit them, they're probably squishy.
Matt: You took out one of three between just two of your surprise attacks.
Liam: 34 for the first hit, and I have the second paladin attack, so if it's not dead, I will attack again.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: That is eight for the second.
Matt: As it emerges from the wall, its blackened shadow form giving off small tendrils of dark black ether and abyssal energy, it reaches out to strike at Keyleth, and you immediately release two daggers in its direction. Both hit its form. It gives this pained sucking sound as you watch its beady, burning red eyes seem to blink in the pain, and it angrily lashes out at Keyleth, its form somewhat more disparate and unable to maintain a corporeal form.
Liam: When is Pike? Is it her turn? No? Okay.
Matt: No, she cast Beacon of Hope. So attacking against Pike. That is 21. What's her AC?
Laura: 23!
Matt: 23. It tries to strike at her, and she manages to take the shield and bash it away. The light from her mace arcing around causes it to flinch, and it actually strikes a little too wide. The one that's arcing towards you, Keyleth, that is fucking 16 again! Yeah, because it's plus six to hit. Okay. You dodge out of the way a second time. It's then going to move back into the wall over here. He's going to move back into the wall, as well. Both of you get reactions.
Laura: Pike definitely takes it. With her Mace of Disruption, she gets an extra 2d6 radiant damage.
Matt: All right, so roll an attack on that one.
Laura: That's a 21 to hit.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: I am wickedly out of my element. I'm running from an 8-ball.
Taliesin: We've got to get everyone away from that thing.
Laura: 27 for Pike.
Matt: 27 points of damage?
Laura: Is it a fiend or an undead? So it has to have a wisdom save of 15.
Matt: If it has 25 hit points or fewer after taking the damage, which it does not. That one has not taken a whole bunch of damage. However, it did take a relatively decent hit, and you watch as she swings the mace out. As it pulls back, where the mace impacts, it seems to almost evaporate part of the shadowed form, and it shrieks as it disappears into the wall.
Liam: For clarification, that is the one I hit, as well, right?
Matt: No, the one that you hit is where she was.
Liam: Oh, Pike hit the other one.
Matt: Correct. Keyleth, are you doing anything as a reaction?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to pull out my staff and do a Burning Hands on him. Dexterity saving throw.
Matt: Natural 20, so it takes half damage.
Marisha: Half damage.
Laura: Ooh, that's good. You did the six and the four.
Taliesin: And then there was a third one.
Marisha: And then there's a third one that is a six? Was that right? Six and six is 12, so 16.
Matt: 16 points of fire damage reduced by half which is eight, and even that impact seems to be lessened by the wraith-like being seemingly absorbing some of the heat from the impact.
Laura: Radiant damage is the bomb!
Taliesin: Radiant damage is what we need in here.
Matt: All righty, that ends their turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to stay in my little cubby hole. I've got some good visual on a couple of these guys down here. I'm going to yell at everybody to get the fuck away from the ball. I'm going to hold my attack until something happens that's going to give me something to shoot at.
Matt: Okay, so as soon as an enemy reveals itself that you can shoot. Okay, that ends Percy's turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Fucking hell. I'm going to do the same thing except I'm going to move to here and wait for something to attack one of my friends.
Taliesin: That's awfully close to the ball.
Liam: I know it is. That's what I do. I'm waiting until one of them attacks one of my friends. One of the undead. I can't do anything about that. That's what I'm doing. That's my turn.
Matt: All right, Pike's turn.
Liam: Stupid, I know. That's what Vax does.
Laura: I can only do this as a bonus action so that she can have that up, right? Okay, she's going to cast Spiritual Weapon. Should she do it at a second level? Okay, she's going to cast Spiritual Weapon up near the wall as a giant sword that looks like it's on fire.
Matt: Whereabouts? On the wall here?
Laura: No, near the wall, yeah. Up close to the wall so that she can attack as soon as that thing is down. And then she's going to hold her physical action until there's something that she can attack.
Matt: Okay, she's holding her physical attack?
Laura: Yeah, her mace.
Matt: Okay, that ends Pikes turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh, that's me!
Matt: Yeah, that's you, actually.
Liam: You're Vex.
Laura: I'm Vex. I'm going to dart away from this ball as fast as I can, and I'm going to come up here.
Sam: Hey, you broke through!
Laura: I broke through the wall. I can't reach. I'm too fucking-- It's fine; I got it.
Sam: Make Matt stand up, Laura.
Matt: Please do. I appreciate it.
Laura: And I'm going to hold my fucking attack until something comes out that I can attack.
Matt: Okay. All righty.
Marisha: I can't believe I couldn't fucking dispel that wall.
Matt: Grog, you're up.
Travis: Yeah, I am, aren't I? Okay. Cool.
Laura: Wait, I have bonus action still.
Matt: You do.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to use that Grasping Vine that I still have up, and I'm going to re-grab onto that stupid guy's fucking neck and yank him towards the wall he's right in front of.
Matt: That's a 15. What's your DC on that?
Laura: 15.
Matt: He succeeds, unfortunately. It slaps out towards him and this time-- I forget the adage, but never mind. He dodges it. (laughter)
Liam: It took 425 hours, but we did it. We broke his brain.
Matt: Blame it on the painkillers. The vine whooshes out and tries to wrap around him. He dodges out of the way, and it slaps harmlessly against the stone and withdraws back into the small crack of stone where it's based. That ends your turn. All right, Grog.
Travis: I'm going to put my faith in Scanlan that some sort of impossible miracle happens. (counting) 30. Right up against the wall. Can I look to the left down that hallway? Can I see down there at all? Is it blocking the hallway off from vision? Is that a moveable space?
Matt: Looking off, it looks like the orb was being used to carve a path.
Travis: It hadn't finished doing it?
Matt: No. It was maybe 25 or so feet down and was hitting solid rock.
Laura: My spell DC may be higher. I don't know if I have increased that in a while.
Liam: It's eight, plus proficiency bonus, plus her spell bonus.
Laura: So my spell DC is 17.
Matt: You need to keep up on that, girl.
Marisha: That was how I lost to Grog in our battle.
Laura: I wanted it around his neck, just to make him annoyed.
Matt: It hits him against the wall. He's still glancing over his shoulder.
Taliesin: He's lost visual range of the ball?
Matt: No, he can still look over the rubble there.
Travis: Not enough to make a concentration check?
Matt: If that's what it does.
Travis: I'm there. I can't get into that hole anymore, can I?
Matt: Not with the way the Wall of Force is placed, no.
Travis: Fair enough. I will hold my action until someone comes within melee distance.
Matt: Okay, ending Grog's turn. At the top of the staircase--
Laura: Oh no! He's coming back for Scanlan!
Matt: This guy here, we'll say he got about that far from the stairs and continues that way.
Marisha: Sanctuary!
Taliesin: Like he's parting the Red Sea.
Taliesin: You shall not pass!
Marisha: You shall not pass!
Laura: Oh my god, we're going against Gandalf right now, you guys.
Taliesin: That's not Gandalf. That's a cosplayer.
Liam: Do you know many hobbits I have under my cloak?
Taliesin: Five hobbits in a cloak. That's all it is. It's not a wizard.
Matt: He glances down at the staircase where you are, and as he begins to smile, the flash in the eye begins to glow briefly, a pale comparison to Vecna, but there is an essence of energy lent to him from his worship of the newly risen deity. He begins to speak in a language you don't understand. And as he speaks one alien word-- how many hit points do you have?
Sam: A lot. 167.
Matt: Fuck, okay. I miscalculated. No effect.
Sam: Power Word?
Matt: Power Word  Stun. He assumed the smaller stature of the gnome was not as hearty.
Travis: He's upset that he miscalculated. The DM wants blood!
Liam: That's what he gets for profiling.
Matt: He's going to continue moving upward, 30 feet back up into the staircase as he keeps focusing on you. That's going to end his turn. You're up, Scanlan.
Sam: Hold on. I need to look up the range of a fucking spell. How far is he from me?
Matt: It's hard to tell at this point. You'd say somewhere between 50, 60, 70 feet.
Liam: I bet your spell is 120 feet, Sam.
Sam: I'm looking. That one's not.
Liam: Is it Thaumaturgy? Because that's right where your eyes are.
Sam: You said how far? Oh shit.
Matt: Between 50 and 70 feet from you.
Laura: You can move.
Liam: You can move.
Sam: Yeah, I'm going to move 25 feet towards him.
Matt: Okay, so that puts you up here.
Sam: And with my darkvision, do I get a sense for how far he is from me now?
Matt: Yeah, you'd say he's about 40 feet from you.
Sam: Fuck no, it's not. Shit, I need 30.
Laura: You can move five more feet. You've got more movement.
Sam: No. That's my movement. I have tiny little nubs.
Travis: Tiny little nubs?
Sam: Yeah.
Liam: What about long-range shit, man?
Sam: That's okay. Yeah, I've got longer-range shit, but it's not as bad news.
Marisha: Keep them from running away.
Travis: Damn it, Matt. Why'd you have to back up?
Matt: Because that tactically made sense.
Liam: Bigby's Hand him? Grab him?
Sam: I'm thinking. I'm trying to decide between two things.
Travis: Yeah, do it. Take your time, baby. Take your time. Taliesin, give him a backrub. Come on, let's focus up here. There you go. Support. Feel the love.
Marisha: This is all on you, man. This is all on you.
Travis: Do your thing. Listen, Shadow of War comes out October 10th. A lot of us are in it.
Sam: It's going to have a lot of wisdom. All right. I will Bigby's Hand. I assume he's got a lot of wisdom, so I will Bigby's Hand him. At level seven. And I will punch the shit out of him.
Laura: Punch him back toward us. Bigby's Hand on the opposite side of him and punch him back toward us.
Marisha: That's a good call.
Matt: All right, so that is 8d8 force damage if you hit. Roll a melee spell attack.
Laura: Inspire yourself!
Taliesin: Inspire yourself!
Sam: I didn't. I forgot. I rolled an 18.
Matt: 18 hits. He's a caster; he doesn't have a lot of armor.
Marisha: Kill him!
Matt: All right, so roll 8d8 force damage.
Taliesin: I have three.
Sam: And I've got one.
Liam: That's just some dude from Sea Org in a bathrobe. Punch him!
Taliesin: Wow, that was a deep cut.
Sam: Wait. Shit. What did I just roll? 16 plus four. That's 20. And then this is another-- 40.
Matt: 40 points of force damage.
Sam: 40 points of force damage.
Matt: All right, that's a 20 DC concentration check.
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: Come on.
Matt: 16. No.
All: Wall down!
Laura: Did we notice? Did we notice that the wall went down?
Matt: No, you don't see it.
Sam: I don't know. Right?
Matt: But Grog would feel it. Grog is sitting there waiting for something, as Bigby's Hand full-on sucker punches him in the body, and he slams against the steps and has to shake his head as he glances at the giant fist and down at you.
Sam: As a bonus action, can I do anything?
Matt: If you want to do a bonus action, you can't do Bigby's Hand again.
Sam: No, but can I throw something to see if it goes through the wall?
Matt: Sure. I'll let you do that. Roll an attack roll, just to aim it.
Sam: Sure. 17, plus I don't know.
Matt: What are you throwing?
Sam: Scanlan found these two really crappy daggers in the desk in the casino.
Matt: He pulls one of these jeweled daggers that he wore and throws it behind, and Grog, you watch as this dagger passes through.
Taliesin: I see that, and I take three shots at this fucker up here immediately. How far away is he?
Matt: Which guy? The who Bigby's Hand just punched? Okay, he is about 120 feet.
Taliesin: I'm going to use Bad News, then, because that is within range for my fucking sniper rifle. He's going to take that.
Laura: I'm going to shoot at the dude in red in front of me.
Taliesin: I can't use a bonus action, and I have to reload once, so I can only take two shots with my action. I can't take three. So two shots with Bad News. Here we go. That's a 25 and 27 to hit.
Matt: Both hit.
Taliesin: First shot is 22 points of damage. Second shot is not as good. 14 points of damage.
Matt: So as you fire those two shots, the echoing noise of Bad News's explosions echoes through the hallway and stairway above. Vex.
Laura: I'm going to sharpshooter him, the guy right in front of me.
Taliesin: There's a lot of noises going on in this place. I think it'll be okay.
Marisha: Oh, it's fine. There are tunnels collapsing and shit. It's fine. I'm not concerned about the noise at the moment.
Laura: 22 to hit?
Matt: 22 does hit.
Laura: 21 damage on the first. And then 19 on the second. That's also Sharpshooter.
Matt: Nice.
Laura: No, that's 19 to hit.
Matt: Gotcha. That hits.
Laura: 27 on the second.
Matt: All right, nice. The guy who's controlling the sphere, after the first arrow strikes him right in the chest, he looks and starts to run up the stairway, and as it does, you take aim with your second arrow and release it, and it hits the base of the skull. You watch him go down one of the stairs.
Taliesin: So the sphere is still there?
Matt: The sphere is still there.
Laura: But he doesn't have control over it anymore. This guy in red is down, so all that's left is the guy and the wraiths?
Taliesin: Was there a third guy?
Laura: We killed him. That was the first guy we killed.
Matt: That finishes Scanlan's turn, right?
Laura: Yeah, that was your turn.
Sam: Yeah, I'm done.
Matt: Keyleth's turn.
Marisha: Okay. I run up as far as I can, 30 feet. Do I see this motherfucker?
Matt: Yeah, you see him. You have a 60-foot range of darkvision?
Marisha: Or I see the glimmering of Bigby's Hand?
Matt: Yeah, I'd say you could probably see him okay. A little bit. It's very dark, but barely.
Marisha: Fireball! (laughter)
Taliesin: That's an answer.
Matt: As you rush up, from the edge of the staff, a bead of red light engulfs the hallway above in flames. You see a split second of him and Bigby's Hand's outlines before fire engulfs the space. Go ahead and roll damage on that. That's a natural 20 on his save, so he gets half damage.
Marisha: What the fuckballs?
Matt: I didn't even roll with advantage on that one.
Sam: You said Fireball on this guy? Bigby's Hand takes damage.
Marisha: Does he? Magical?
Sam: Yeah, he has hit points.
Taliesin: He could roll a save, though.
Sam: He could!
Matt: Let's check. Yep, it has no bonus, so you roll a d20 and see what you get.
Sam: 11.
Marisha: 29 points of damage.
Sam: It's fine. Bigby's Hand has 167 hit points.
Matt: Yeah, it has your hit points.
Laura: That's amazing!
Sam: Yeah, it's me.
Matt: That ends Keyleth's turn. He's still alive. This one's going to move through the hallway here.
Marisha: He's still going after my ass?
Matt: This one's going after Pike.
Liam: I get to attack. I've been holding.
Laura: Pike gets to attack. Pike has been holding her action to attack as soon as she could, too.
Matt: So Pike gets her attack, and so do you.
Laura: So 20 to hit on Pike.
Matt: 20 to hit? That hits.
Laura: Where is my other d8? Here it is. (counting)
Liam: When you hold, does bonus action carry over?
Matt: Nope, just the action.
Laura: So it's 22.
Matt: 22. All right. And what's the saving throw?
Laura: Saving throw is 15.
Matt: 15. Four, no. As it comes out of the wall reaching for Pike, she swings wide with the mace. As it slams into it, there's a flash of divine energy. Her eyes seem to pulse with a matching burst of radiant power, and as it hits, the creature squeals and squeaks as the light from the mace actually dashes it from this existence or any other. That is scattered into nothing from the shadows.
Liam: I rolled an 18 and a one.
Matt: 18 hits. One misses.
Liam: Okay, so sneak attack. One.
Sam: One misses?
Laura: I know, right?
Liam: 39 for the second attack.
Matt: 39 for the second attack. All righty. And with that, as this one reaches out towards Keyleth, your dagger strikes the back of its body, and as it impacts, you watch as its shadowed form turns into nothing but a splash of dark, half-existing ether, which then fades as your dagger clatters to the ground motionless.
Liam: Back to the belt.
Matt: All right. Percival, you're up.
Laura: Kill him!
Taliesin: Reload. Going to take another shot.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Going to take a shot. Yeah, let's take another shot. Probably got a low AC. Let's make this a sharpshooter, just for fun. Yeah. That's a sharpshooter shot, so that's a 24 to hit?
Matt: 24 hits.
Taliesin: All right. So let's do (counting) 26 points of damage.
Matt: 26 points of damage. (gunshot) The echo of the impact as you watch part of the lower jaw and throat of the cultist in the robe gets blown apart. He stumbles back onto the steps that he had barely started to get up off to and you watch and you hear the horrible coughing sound as his last moments of life are robbed of it as it tries to get back up and then stumbles right back and bleeds out against the steps.
Taliesin: We can still interrogate him. He doesn't have to be alive for that. Any other problems?
Liam: How's the ball doing?
Matt: It's hovering there in the center of the hall.
Laura: We can't do anything about that floating ball. Cover it with a handkerchief.
Marisha: You beat me to it, man.
Taliesin: Let's rifle through these guys' stuff. Which one do we want to interrogate?
Marisha: Keyleth goes up to the red robe.
Taliesin: Let's throw gray robe into the annihilation ball. Let's get rid of him.
Travis: Vax. Why don't you go down the hallway and see if anyone else is coming? Keep watch.
Laura: But stay within 60 feet. Everybody gather up around me again.
Liam: Sis, come up to where Scanlan is so I can go a little further ahead.
Matt: Everyone is barely still within 60 feet.
Taliesin: Everyone gather up. We're going to get our stuff.
Laura: Avoid the ball.
Marisha: Vax, can I borrow a dagger?
Liam: Yeah. I give her Whisper.
Marisha: I take it and I stab it in his other eye. Red robe guy.
Matt: Okay. (splat) Other eye is destroyed.
Sam: I'm going to use Bigby's Hand to grab the sphere.
Matt: Do you? Okay. Bigby's Hand reaches over and grabs towards the sphere, and as Bigby's form attempts to grasp the chaotic point of destructive energy, Bigby's Hand suffers 26 points of force damage and is forced to pull back.
Sam: That's not so bad.
Matt: But cannot grasp it. Cannot move it. (electrical shock)
Laura: I'm going to rifle through the robes of red robe.
Taliesin: I'm going to get Odell.
Matt: That's the one she's rifling through.
Taliesin: Oh, okay. There was a third guy, right, that they killed early on?
Matt: Oh, the first guy. Yeah. Okay, gotcha.
Taliesin: Assume we're going through everybody and taking their shit.
Liam: I'm standing as far from Vex as I can, but I can't go much farther because obviously-- yeah.
Matt: Okay. Interestingly enough, based on the current scenario and what preparation has been, no money on them. They have no worldly possessions that are what you consider of use. They each carry a gnarled wooden wand that they've been using as a focus for their spellcasting. Beyond that, they have nothing on them except for the one that you shot has, you notice the left hand is withered and gray, the skin is pulled taut against the bone. But beyond that, there is no other possessions on them, beyond the symbol of Vecna they wear around their throat.
Marisha: How many of those symbols do we still have, and how many robes do we still have?
Laura: Well, we can grab their robes, I don't know how many of those we have, but I think we also have a necklace.
Liam: Also, we can have Pickle talk to one of these arseholes.
Taliesin: I think that's a good idea.
Marisha: The guy that I'm standing over, red robe, I'm going to rip his necklace off.
Matt: Okay. You tear it off.
Laura: I'm going to take his robes.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, we're taking all this shit.
Matt: So you take every set of robes. And these robes are different from the robes that you had seen in Thar Amphala before. These appear to be a little more ornate. They seem to have a little higher station, which is why it's interesting that beyond the robes and some basic undergarments and the wand, they have nothing on them. They are a sheer conduit of their own power.
Taliesin: Were they drilling? I want to take a little bit of an inspection. Were they drilling with this thing? Is that why they had it?
Matt: Looking around the pathway, you can see that a lot of the staircase probably was more caved in, but has been cleared out by the movement of this orb. It's being used as a form of excavation tool as they push deeper into the catacombs here.
Marisha: So they were holding on to that orb the whole time.
Laura: Yeah, the guy in the red was controlling it.
Marisha: Yeah. He didn't cast it, though. We didn't see him cast that.
Laura: It came out of the wall.
Matt: Yeah, it came out of that little gap on the side there.
Sam: I'm going to go over to the sphere and say to it: I command thee to respect my authority and obey me as your new master.
Matt: Are you trying to exert your will on the sphere?
Sam: I'm intimidating the sphere.
Matt: Make an intelligence arcana check.
Sam: Intelligence arcana check?
Matt: Just an arcana check.
Sam: Oh! 19.
Matt: 19? And you're standing right next to the sphere to push your will into it?
Sam: Yeah, I came closer to it.
Matt: Okay. As you stand there, you focus on the orb, and you can feel your will push past the event horizon of the sphere. However, the force is too strong inside, and as you pull out of it instinctually, it moves towards you. (screaming)
Taliesin: Why did you have to tamper with the fundamental forces of nature?
Matt: Yeah. Ten feet. Which is right where you are, so I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Matthew McConaughey is going to reach out of it for you.
Sam: That's not good. 11.
Matt: 11?
Sam: Bigby, save me!
Matt: The orb pulls back and slams into the edge of his gnomish face and chest, and you watch as his flesh is pulled towards and disintegrated at the exterior of the sphere.
Laura: Can we reach down and grab him away from it?
Marisha: Yeah, Grasping Vine!
Matt: You take 30 points of force damage, and it's currently now right in your square, right up against you.
Laura: I use my Grasping Vine and I yank him away from it.
Marisha: Yeah, move away!
Matt: Okay. So you all push him out of the way and the vine pulls him.
Travis: Two-Face!
Matt: Yeah, you look a little rough.
Laura: Scanlan, you're hideous now.
Sam: Don't look at me! I'm fine.
Travis: Some other voice starts coming out of him.
Sam: I think I can take this thing.
Liam: "So did you want me to talk to one of these guys?"
Matt: You got the sense that there is a way to exert your will over it the way these guys did, but in that moment, your will faltered, and you didn't quite understand the nature of the sphere.
Sam: I just need to try again harder.
Marisha: Wait!
Laura: You got to roll higher than a 19. Can you give yourself inspiration?
Sam: This is an ability check, right?
Matt: This is an ability check, yes.
Taliesin: Wait, was that a wisdom saving throw?
Matt: No. It was an arcana check.
Travis: It might be high, dude. You might have to roll a 30.
Taliesin: Let's leave it. Tend to the sick and leave the well alone.
Travis: Indiana? Let it go.
Laura: Or Dominate that shit.
Sam: I'll try one more time.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: All right. Let's all back up.
Laura: I get ready with the vine to yank him away in case it starts moving toward him.
Matt: Okay. And everyone else backs up a little.
Marisha: Keyleth stares with a vague familiarity.
Sam: I'm going to inspire myself.
Matt: Okay. So make your roll first, as you begin to focus and exert your will towards it. You add it on to it.
Sam: Pretty good.
Laura: Now inspire!
Sam: And inspire?
Matt: Up to you.
Sam: Okay. Plus my what? Arcana?!
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Ooh, that's a lot. 30.
Matt: Okay. As you this time begin to push your will towards the sphere, you push past the event horizon, your consciousness connects with some--
Sam: (garbled) Listen to me, damn it! Respect my authority!
Matt: Some ancient space of the void within this blackened circle. As it connects-- What's your intelligence modifier?
Sam: Plus three.
Matt: Okay. What are you trying to will it to do?
Sam: I'm trying to will it to-- Shit, it's just a big black ball. Slam straight into the ceiling!
Matt: It moves up ten feet and then it hits, devours the stone above it to create this small tunnel right directly above.
Laura: Oh my god! You did it.
Sam: We can use it!
Taliesin: Finally.
Sam: Have you guys seen The Explorers?
Taliesin: I'm in The Explorers, motherfucker. I'm in The Explorers.
Sam: You are?! That's one of my favorite movies of all time! Can I get your autograph?
Taliesin: No.
Liam: Were you kidding? Are you really in The Explorers?
Taliesin: Yes! I'm really in The Explorers.
Liam: Stop the game!
Taliesin: I'm one of River's little brothers. I'm Ludwig.
Sam: Oh, wow!
Marisha: Yeah, he knew River through that.
Laura: What if we use the orb and go straight up? We don't even keep tunneling, we juat go straight up to the city.
Sam: It only listens to me.
Laura: Yeah. Do you need us to heal you or anything?
Sam: No, this is a cool thing.
Travis: Yeah, but it only makes a hole its size. It's two feet across.
Taliesin: I think he's not ready to pop a wheelie on this thing yet.
Travis: Plus, remember the guy was concentrating super hard, so it's the only thing Scanlan will probably be able to do.
Marisha: But if he cores out a tunnel for us, we can carry Scanlan like on a palanquin? Like We Are The Champions?
Sam: Guys, I think we can make it. No, we can't! We'll never make it! Yes, we can!
Liam: All I'm thinking is I could come up and do Lay on Hands and heals, but I'm like, you made your bed, lie in it.
Taliesin: Yeah, no. I'm okay with this.
Laura: What do you think? Do you want to go up?
Sam: We're still investigating these guys and stuff.
Marisha: Fuck these guys! We got all their shit. Let's go!
Sam: I'm going to call this ball Simon 3.
Travis: Do we know how far the sphere can move in a single movement?
Matt: You watched him push it, and it went about 15 feet.
Travis: The sphere can only move 15 feet.
Sam: It will slow us down.
Matt: It's a very slow-moving ball of destruction.
Taliesin: Bring the sphere back down so that we can throw their bodies into the sphere so that they don't turn into undead fuckwads.
Liam: Wait a second, though! God, I don't know what this will do. I have a spell called Zone of Truth.
Laura: So it forces them to speak the truth? Does it work on undead?
Liam: A creature that enters the spell's area for the first time. If it fails.
Laura: So you could cast it, and then Pike could cast Speak with Dead, and it would come up into the Zone of Truth.
Liam: That's right.
Travis: No, they have to tell the truth when you do Speak with Dead.
Liam: No, they don't.
Matt: They don't have to.
Marisha: They can lie.
Taliesin: Here's a weird question  what saving throw do they have to make to speak the truth?
Liam: An affected creature is aware of the spell and can thus avoid answering questions to which it would normally respond with a lie. So it could avoid the questions.
Laura: But they have to answer the questions.
Liam: But they have to answer the questions because of the other spell.
Laura: Right?
Sam: Double mumbo-jumbo?
Matt: It can't tell a lie, as you're discussing this. Technically, a creature would be unable to lie in the area.
Liam: Unable to lie, and with Pike's spell--
Laura: They have to answer the question.
Liam: They have to answer the question.
Matt: Let me double-check for you.
Taliesin: And what's the save?
Liam: Charisma saving throw against my spell save DC, which is not huge.
Marisha: What is it?
Liam: 16.
Matt: I mean, it does have to answer.
Liam: I like it.
Taliesin: Are we going to try this crazy shit?
Laura: Let's do it!
Marisha: Might as well. Okay, hang on, though! What are we going to get from this guy?
Laura: Find out how close we are to Vasselheim.
Taliesin: Yeah, what's the plan? What are they trying to do?
Liam: What has Vecna got cooking?
Taliesin: What's Vecna planning? How many of them are there?
Marisha: I'm going to go pee, you guys.
Liam: He might not know everything. How long does it take for Keyleth to pee?
Laura: No, but how close we are to Vasselheim? What's the plan of attack in Vasselheim? How big is his army? We get five questions, I think, with Speak with Dead.
Taliesin: Five?
Sam: How close are we? What's his plan? Where is he?
Laura: Where is Vecna within the city?
Sam: Who's with him?
Laura: Who's the death knight?
Taliesin: He might not know that. But what are they excavating for? What are they looking for?
Travis: I think I know that.
Taliesin: I think I know, too, but I want to hear him say it. It'd make me feel better.
Laura: Let's do it! Cast your Zone, yo!
Taliesin: Get in the zone.
Laura: (singing) Autozone!
Matt: (chuckling) Autozone of Truth?
Liam: Shit. So can anyone drag him down on his roll to save, or boost me?
Taliesin: No. Not me.
Laura: I don't think so.
Liam: Does anyone have a cantrip? Okay. All right. Let's do it.
Matt: All right. So which one?
Liam: Well, first Zone of Truth, then Pike.
Matt: Okay. So you create the Zone of Truth, you create the area, the radial space where the divine energy kicks in and the compulsion to not lie remains within. And then Pike--
Laura: Casts Speak with Dead.
Matt: On which corpse? There are three corpses.
Liam: Red robe seemed more fancy.
Sam: Who seemed more senior?
Liam: Red robe did.
Matt: There are three, technically.
Sam: There was the guy they killed right when they burst on the scene.
Taliesin: We'll take the fanciest cloak.
Matt: Okay. It's relative, but the guy who was controlling the sphere seemed to be at least different.
Laura: He had a different color. Yeah, red robe.
Matt: All right. So as Pike takes the time to focus and recite the incantation, she grabs her holy symbol and focuses and speaks aloud the words in Celestial of the blessing of Sarenrae. And as she completes the ritual, she suddenly screams out in pain and grabs at her head and falls to her knees. No effect. And she suffers--
Laura: Oh no! What did he do to Pike?
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: On 6d6, I rolled four sixes and a five. That's 31 points of psychic damage to Pike.
Liam: She tried to cast Speak with Dead Dumbfuck.
Matt: She's shaking and grabbing her face and rubbing her eyes, and it takes her a moment to come back to you and she looks around, and you can see a faint bit of blood slightly dripping out of the corner of her eyes. She's like, "All I heard was laughter."
Sam: Laughter?
Laura: And you said it was minus 36 damage?
Matt: 31.
Liam: Vecna is in these motherfuckers' brains.
Marisha: Everyone looks upset.
Laura: Pike got psychic damage from that dude.
Marisha: How much? A lot?
Laura: 31 points of psychic damage.
Marisha: Oh, that's a lot, yeah.
Taliesin: Burn the bodies. Fuck it.
Marisha: Throw them down the well.
Taliesin: Throw them into the sphere.
Marisha: Oh yeah!
Sam: Sphere! Do your worst.
Matt: One by one, you grab and take the corpses and thrust them towards the sphere, as they immediately crumple, fold and get pulled in, turned to nothingness, disappearing into the black void. There are elements of the way the sphere acts and manipulates things that remind you of the siphons, though differently. It's more violent in some ways, and it is its own contained magical entity. With each body, it vanishes in the sphere, and you all sit there for a moment taking a breath and deciding the next order of business in traversing the insides of this titan. And that's where we'll end tonight's game, because it's 11:30.
Marisha: I feel like I always come back from the bathroom right as we're ending games.
Sam: First of all, it's so great to be back!
Taliesin: It's so nice to be back.
Sam: Matt, thank god you're totally 100 percent healed and all better again.
Matt: It's great. Sorry. But yeah, missed you guys. We'll be back next week, pick up from here, see as the final charge gets closer and closer. What will you guys do next time? In the meantime, rest well, don't forget, if you can, to give to the Red Cross to help support the victims of recent hurricane battering in the US.
Laura: Look for Shadow of War.
Matt: Shadow of War coming out on October 10th.
Marisha: Our comic on Wednesday.
Matt: Yep, look for that. And we'll see you guys soon. Have a wonderful week, we love you, and: Is it Thursday yet? Good night. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]