The following lines contains multiple episode transcripts of a Dungeons and Dragons game played by a group of players. Each episode transcript is delimited by [START OF EPISODE] and [END OF EPISODE]. The transcripts are followed by a question about the game statistics. Answer the question based on the transcripts. Do not try to guess, estimate or approximate the result. Do not ask the user for clarification or follow-up. Do step-by-step reasoning if needed. Return the final answer in \boxed{{}}. 

The following lines contain the mapping between player names and character names.
Matt plays the character DM.
Laura plays the character Vex'ahlia.
Travis plays the character Grog.
Marisha plays the character Keyleth.
Orion plays the character Tiberius.
Taliesin plays the character Percy.
Liam plays the character Vax'ildan.
Sam plays the character Taryon.
Ashley plays the character Pike.
Felicia plays the character Lyra.
Mary plays the character Zahra.
Wil plays the character Thorbir.
Will plays the character Kashaw.
Kit plays the character Lillith.
Jason plays the character Garthok.
Chris hardwick plays the character Gern.
Chris perkins plays the character Shale.
Patrick plays the character Kerrek.
Noelle plays the character Tova.
Jon plays the character Lionel.
Darin plays the character Sprigg.
Joe plays the character Arkhan.

Use this mapping when answering the questions below.

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to Critical Role, the show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors get together, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons. My name is Matthew Mercer, I'm the Dungeon Master of the game. Welcome, new folks who haven't seen this before, hope you're not too lost, and returning Team Hooman and Critter fans, welcome back, we love having you and let's get this evening on the road. We have some announcements and things to talk about before the game actually kicks in, so we'll first pass it over here to our fantastic overlord to get that kicked off.
Zac: That's right, you get to see my ugly face for a couple minutes while I get through a couple quick announcements, guys. A lot of you have been asking me on Twitter and in the chat room when you will get to see Critical Troll? That will be up on the website tomorrow night at 8PM Pacific Standard Time. So go over to the website at 8PM, you'll be able to see that and I'm sure you guys will secretly pass around the youtube link and stuff.
Matt: Watch me go crazy.
Zac: Currently you can find Laura's article on GeekandSundry.com.
Laura: What?!
Zac: That came out today, so make sure to head over to the website and read that. And I know a lot of you are probably wondering about D&Diesel. Which is apparently the name, D&Diesel.
Laura: Yeah, it is.
Zac: Got a ring to it.
Taliesin: Hashtag D&Diesel.
Zac: Hashtag D&Diesel. That will be showing tonight during the midpoint of the show. Now, there's a couple special things with this showing, you need to watch it live. If you think that you're going to come back later, watch it on the rebroadcast, and you're gonna go dip out for a pee break or pizza break, whatever, don't! Stick around because after it shows tonight live, you will be unable to see it again until Monday on the website. So it will be cut from the rebroadcasts.
Laura: Whoa.
Zac: And I'm very sorry to our European audience. I'm really sorry about that, but that's just unfortunately how PR deals work sometimes and that's just the way it is. But, it'll only be--
Matt: It's only a few days!
Zac: Yeah, it'll only be a few days and you'll get to see a lot more on Monday. A longer cut and that's why it's a website exclusive. It's longer, it'll have some tightening and all sorts of other stuff. But, you guys get a special treat tonight with a preview showing, and it's still a long preview, it's like 20-25 minutes or something like that.
Laura: Whoa, it is?
Matt: Yeah.
Zac: It's pretty cool.
Matt: That'll be exciting.
Zac: So there's that. Tomorrow we have a very special event happening for all of those that joined us for the Extra Life campaign, thank you so much, and a lot of you guys were here as well.
Matt: Yes indeed.
Zac: And thank you for donating, getting us well past our goal, and as some of you may remember during Critical Troll, Felicia mentioned that if we reached a certain goal, she would come on, on a scheduled date and play Rock Band 4. So that's happening, tomorrow.
Matt: Yup!
Zac: We are having a battle of the bands from 5 to 7PM Pacific Standard Time, and Mr. Mercer here is going to be playing the drums.
Matt: Yeah, I'm drumming for them, which, first off, I haven't played since probably 2011, and I'm a little rusty.
Zac: Have you seen your competition?
Matt: No, but I assume they're gonna destroy me.
Zac: They're really good.
Matt: That's okay. I will narrate my failure.
Zac: There we go!
Matt: In a way that will still be as engrossing. (laughs)
Zac: And there's been a Twitter battle happening between the two teams.
Matt: Oh really?
Zac: You're kinda walking into the fire, my friend.
Matt: That's okay.
Zac: Felicia's put a lot on the line for you guy's team.
Matt: That's cool. I got fire resistance. That's fine.
Zac: Okay cool, cool. That'll be happening tomorrow 5PM to 7PM Pacific Standard Time, you guys should tune in for that. We are still going to be donating to Extra Life, but we're not really going to be pushing it, it's more of a reward for you guys for helping us get past that $75k goal.
Matt: Yes.
Zac: Our next giveaway is going to be at 9,500, we're getting pretty close. The other real quick little announcement I have as far as subs go, is last week you guys were able to get our sub train up to 420 subs, now that counts resubs and new subs. So we have the sub train going right now, I believe it's well over a hundred--
Matt: Woof.
Zac: If we break last week's record of 420 which I think they purposely stopped at 420--
Matt: (laughs) Of course they did.
Zac: Hey guys, don't go. We will do a giant giveaway of board games, D&D stuff signed by the cast, signed by the rest of the Twitch crew. We'll throw in a couple video games, t-shirts, all sorts of stuff. Plus Ivan has said if we reach that goal for TPK, which those that watched last Monday, thank you so much.
Matt: Yeah!
Zac: It's a new show on Monday nights where our Twitch cast plays as themself in Outbreak Undead. Last week, some of you saw the Twitch cast leave me for dead outside of the studio. And a lot of people thought that I might come back if given the opportunity. Well, if we break that sub goal, Ivan has said that I will come back and probably wreak havoc in some way for our Twitch host that thought they could get away with leaving me for dead in the middle of the street.
Matt: (laughs) That's awesome.
Zac: So let's break 420. The last announcement, guys, is just a real quick community announcement. We like to pride ourselves at Geek & Sundry for being a very open and loving and warm community, and that's absolutely the most important thing to us and to Felicia and to a lot of our viewers, and I know last week things got a little heated in the chat room, and we just want to remind everyone that we don't get the opportunity to talk to you much during the show, but we want to make sure you guys stay as positive as possible or I will have to throw the hammer down on you.
Matt: Shit. All right. There you--
Zac: That's pretty much it.
Matt: You know, just goes to say that this community is built on so many great, positive people and such a wonderful sense of community, and a big huge thanks and please share appreciation for our fantastic mods who work consistently and constantly throughout the day.
Zac: (sings) For free.
Matt: For free.
Zac: (laughs) You guys are crazy.
Matt: Through our chatroom, which if you've watched, as you're now seeing and have seen previous episodes, is I can only assume readable by super mastermind computers at this point. So, you guys do an amazing job, it's really appreciated and to all of you guys out there in the community, keep that positivity, keep that understanding, and enjoy our game for its ups, for its downs, for our good character choices, bad character choices. It's all an experience in a story that we're all having together at the same time. So, kick along, hold on, and keep smiling.
Zac: Well said, Matt.
Matt: Yeah, thank you.
Zac: We love you guys, kind of. (all laugh)
Matt: I do. I love you. We do.
Zac: I'm on the fence.
Matt: He's a-- you know.
Laura: We love you so much!
Matt: It's a thing. So yeah, so, couple other announcements for you guys. What's our sub count right now? When's our next one hundred?
Crew: 9.5k, 9,500.
Matt: At 9,500 we will be giving away our signed photo and signed art piece by Kit Buss to a random person who's active in the chat. So next time we hit that goal, we'll have that giveaway, which is awesome. Once again, Extra Life has been our big charity push right now. Everyone who's given, thank you so much. So, so much, and if ever you want to be a part of helping that out we have the information there available for you, it goes to a really great cause. Let's see, Sam will be here shortly. Unfortunately, we're down a Tiberius tonight. However, yesterday was Orion's birthday, so feel free to go ahead and wish him a happy birthday on Twitter.
Laura: Aw.
Liam: Happy birthday, Orion.
Travis: Happy birthday, buddy.
Matt: Happy birthday, Orion. But yeah, Sam should be here shortly. And, let's see, do we have any project announcements?
Liam: Just a project announcement?
Matt: Or any other announcements you've got.
Liam: Hey, yesterday I started directing for the World of Warcraft. So that's pretty good.
Laura: You did? (all cheer)
Matt: Congratulations, buddy.
Laura: That's so great!
Liam: I think it's gonna be ongoing and it was really nice.
Travis: Big deal.
Marisha: I'm so excited for you!
Laura: That's super exciting.
Matt: That's awesome.
Liam: Then anything right now?
Marisha: I'm so fangirly.
Matt: Anything you want.
Liam: All right, I also want to thank Pupgames from Twitter for sending me this.
Laura: Oh yeah.
Liam: Look at this. It came in the mail separate and I have a hood and now I can just, you know, I can go like that and no one will see me so thank you, Pupgames.
Matt: That's awesome!
Liam: Let me set it here. I haven't figured out how to wear it exactly, but I will.
Laura: (laugh)
Matt: (laugh)
Travis: Take all your clothes off and then figure it out.
Matt: It's warm on the chesticles.
Liam: And then, I just want to take a minute, I said thank you on Twitter, but I just want to thank everybody who for the last week has sent me well-wishes and today who has sent me well-wishes, and a lot of the Critter community got together and made a video just to, you know, just support, support me in-- I am having a hard moment in my personal life, not gonna get into it, but you guys kind of took my breath away today for real. So, thank you very much.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: We have the best fans.
Matt: This whole community is brilliant, so you guys.
Taliesin: So many of them in New York and in San Francisco this week, where we've been all over the place.
Marisha: Yes. Shout out to our New York and San Fran.
Matt: Yeah, we hit both coasts.
Marisha: San Francisco. Both coasts.
Matt: Yeah, in the same week. It's crazy. Yeah, we all went to New York Comic Con. We had a panel that went really well. We had a bunch of great critters come out and Team Hooman folks come and sit in the audience, ask questions. We had some fun banter back and forth. We gave out 'Critical Rolls,' these cookies that were our little meal deal.
Taliesin: That were neither critical nor rolls, really to be fair.
Matt: Right.
Taliesin: But they were good.
Marisha: But we're into it.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Imaginary rolls.
Marisha: Imaginary rolls.
Matt: Much like our realm is imaginary.
Taliesin: I may have hit a couple people in the face, for which I greatly apologize.
Laura: I definitely hit somebody in the face with one of those rolls.
Taliesin: Yeah, I like split someone's lip.
Matt: Completely unintentional, I'm sure.
Laura: I'm so sorry.
Liam: Her aim is excellent. She never misses.
Laura: Yes, I am an archer.
Travis: She Hunter's Marks that shit.
Laura: I Hunter's Marked your face.
Taliesin: And we played golf. It was quite nice.
Matt: Also, thank you guys for coming out to that event. Also, for those who came to see us at Forbidden Planet in New York, we had a great turnout, and that comic shop wasn't quite expecting what they were in for.
Travis: We weren't expecting that.
Matt: We weren't expecting, but they especially were like halfway through like, "Who are you guys?! What is happening?!"
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Travis: We are legion.
Marisha: We freaked out our Uber driver.
Matt: Yeah we did.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: We pulled up and got out of the car and all of a sudden it was like hundreds of people cheering and we all went "What?!" and the Uber driver went "What?!?"
Taliesin: I think his exact words is, "Is this for us?" (all laugh)
Matt: And even we were like "I don't know."
Laura: I don't know!
Matt: You guys were amazing. Thank you for that.
Marisha: I feel like we need to find and screen cap in the thread where we were like, 20, 30 people, guys. Let's not get our hopes up.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Well, that's who got back to me, was like, I don't know, 40ish.
Laura: Yeah, we thought it was gonna be like 40 people.
Matt: Yeah, that was a good turnout.
Laura: That-- pretty great. Was great. Pretty great.
Liam: It was pretty metal.
Taliesin: The internet went, nope.
Matt: Yeah. Other announcements  Coming up in I think the next couple weeks or so, the release of the Minecraft Story Mode.
Marisha: (whispers) Yeah.
Travis: (sings) Yeah.
Matt: Comes out on Xbox. Completely a fun show. We went to the Archlight Let's Play of it they did, which was really a lot of fun. I play the characters Aiden and Otis in it.
Marisha: Hundreds of screaming children. Screaming, yeah.
Matt: Yes, lots of screaming children. Yeah, so I play Aiden and Otis and a smattering of other characters throughout. I think Sam also worked on it. Anyone else?
All: Ashley.
Matt: That's right, Ashley Johnson, our very own Pike!
Liam: She's one of the mains.
Matt: Yeah, she's one of the main characters in that show. So if you're a Minecraft fan and you like Telltale and you have an Xbox, check it out.
Laura: Speaking of Telltale, the final episode of Tales from the Borderlands comes out next week.
Travis: Oh snap!
Laura: Episode five, what!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: Awesome!
Laura: Exciting.
Matt: (sings) Yeah.
Taliesin: Also in that role, if any Critters are in the Galveston area for Halloween, I will be at OniCon over Halloween weekend. So, you can come say hi in beautiful Galveston by the sea. Galveston, Texas.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: I'll be wearing a costume. It'll be great.
Matt: Perfect.
Liam: We have a gnome.
Laura: We have a gnome.
Taliesin: We have gnome? Oh god!
Marisha: You're in Minecraft, right? Story mode.
Sam: Yes I am.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: In fact you and I--
Matt: I think we have a couple scenes together.
Sam: We do something together, I don't know what. Or you're playing a version of me or something, I don't remember.
Matt: I can only assume that it's tawdry.
Sam: (laughs) The director told me something about you and I just assume we're probably having sex in the game.
Matt: Probably.
Sam: Yeah, okay.
Matt: It's just like an extended, fully interactive too. Talk about choices you make that affect the storyline. (laughs)
Taliesin: I blank out in the booth any time they mention his name.
Matt: But yeah, cool, guys. Any announcements anyone want to talk about, or shall we get things started?
Laura: Let's do it!
Matt: All right, let's do it.
Marisha: Do it!
Liam: Wait, where did Grog go?
Taliesin: Wait, wait, wait.
Sam: He'll be here.
Matt: Grog, he'll be here in a minute but in the meantime, let's go ahead and dial in for the next episode of Critical Role.
Taliesin: Dun dun dun dun. [opening credits]
Matt: Welcome back. So. Sh. (laughs) So, to go over the current adventure in its current sequence, we have-- the party recently had an encounter with the Briarwoods. Two individuals that were responsible for a lot of strife--
Liam: Dicks!
Matt: -- in the background of Percival's history. Seemingly responsible for the destruction of his entire family, and have for the past five years been essentially ruling his home city and castle. They were out for a political banquet with Sovereign Uriel in Emon and the party members of Vox Machina, they were all invited to be part of this. Didn't quite go as planned. There was a scuffle and the Briarwoods absconded back to Whitestone. They sent a couple assassins out to attempt to take out their driver, who was spilling information and essentially was going to be Vox Machina's way of being free of any sort of political issues based on their actions that evening, and after much discussion and preparation and purchasing a lot of mirrors, the party took their transit over to the east-northeast towards Whitestone, where they began to traverse the Alabaster Sierras to the north, using the mountain range as opposed to going directly through the forest. There they managed to avoid encountering a bunch of harpies that were distracted by eating the horses they left behind.
Travis: Damn.
Matt: They camped for the evening and began to make their way through some sort of a mountainous valley that led in towards the forest surrounding Whitestone. While they were traveling down this pass, there was a rumbling, and some sort of really fast, rapid-moving large blue creature that leaped down in front, catching them off-guard. And that is where we begin today.
Travis: Probably should have fucking researched that creature.
Taliesin: Did the creature look like that?
Matt: That blue creature.
Laura: Yeah, right? That would have been smart.
Taliesin: Okay, just checking.
Travis: I never do that.
Laura: I know. So dumb.
Sam: What's dumb?
Travis: I have a question.
Laura: That we didn't research that creature.
Travis: What did you roll on your beard check?
Matt: What'd I roll on my beard check?
Laura: I know, it's growing!
Marisha: It's metagaming, you can't. We're not allowed.
Matt: Well, obviously. (all laugh)
Matt: Well, No Shave 'Til 10k.
Travis: That's true!
Matt: And my Halloween costume requires a decent amount of facial hair.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right.
Travis: A sexy amount of facial hair, you beast! Be glad there's a table between you and I. (all laugh)
Liam: I was a little worried about some performance capture coming up, but it got moved back--
Laura: So you can shave--
Liam: Off to the races.
Matt: Yeah!
Laura: How far are we from 10K?
Travis: I gotta shave tonight.
Crew: 509.
Matt: 509 away.
Laura: All right.
Sam: So, like, tomorrow.
Marisha: Yeah, no.
Matt: We'll see.
Marisha: Tonight.
Matt: All right, so, everyone. As this huge, blue-scaled reptilian-like creature with multiple arms and legs comes skittering down the side of the cliffs, blocking off the entirety of this passage, snarling at you with sharp teeth and this sparking-blue electrical energy jutting out of the corners of its mouth. I want you all to roll initiative.
Marisha: So soon! Which one?
Sam: I add 20 to this, right, that's how it works?
Marisha: Not good.
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: See you guys in--
Marisha: Always cocked!
Travis: I didn't level up! What a dick.
Marisha: Still not great.
Liam: Wait, you did but you didn't, is what you're saying?
Travis: I did, but I didn't.
Liam: Add some hit points!
Laura: Yeah, add your points right now.
Liam: Add some hit points!
Travis: How many do I add?
Marisha: It's like--
Matt: 1d12 plus your constitution modifier!
Laura: 1d12!
Marisha: Barbarian, man!
Liam: Hey, we play D&D!
Laura: Hey, that's good! Plus--
Liam: Plus--
Laura: Whoa! 16 extra health points!
Matt: Whoa, what'd you roll?!
Laura: He rolled an 11 plus five!
Liam: Dang!
Marisha: That's hot.
Matt: That's pretty hot. So many hit points for the barbarian.
Liam: And, if you want, you can just boost to, are you at 12 now?
Travis: What?
Liam: Level 12? Are you at level 12?
Laura: Don't complicate things.
Liam: Just smash, smash, Hulk smash.
Sam: How many spells does he get?
Matt: All of them. All right, so initiatives we have-- 25 to 20, anyone?
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: All right. 20 to 15?
Laura: 19.
Travis: Me too. 16.
Matt: 16? 15 to ten?
Marisha: Ten.
Matt: Ten, Keyleth. Ten to five?
Liam: Eight! I consistently botch this roll.
Sam: See you guys in like an hour. I got a four.
Matt: Scanlan, you have consistently the best initiative rolls.
Sam: Oh, yeah. I save it for when it counts.
Matt: As you should, as you should. So, first up Percy. Instinctively, with your drive towards Whitestone and this creature in your way, you are already ready for this encounter. What are you going to do?
Taliesin: It's bigger than sin, isn't it?
Matt: It is considered a huge creature.
Taliesin: Okay, so, I'm going to alert everybody, get down! And I'm going to take three shots--
Sam: You're just going to start shooting.
Taliesin: Hmm?
Sam: You're just going to start shooting.
Taliesin: I'm just going to-- look at that thing!!
Marisha: Hey, Percy gonna do what Percy gonna do.
Sam: What if you could reason with him?
Laura: He is definitely--
Taliesin: Why doesn't it reason with me, is what I'm asking! It could reason with me!
Liam: There's a lot of heads in the way. Just aim true.
Taliesin: I'm aiming, I'm going to use the Sharpshooter for extra damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Three pepperbox shots.
Liam: I will be less handsome with one ear, I'm just saying.
Matt: With the minus five.
Taliesin: Yeah, so that's 17.
Matt: 17 hits. Just go ahead and roll the attacks in succession.
Taliesin: Hmm?
Matt: Go ahead and roll the attacks in succession so we know how many hit.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Second shot.
Taliesin: Second one, it hits, 18 plus seven.
Matt: It hits. Third one?
Taliesin: For the third one, I'm going to go for a head shot instead of a Sharpshooter.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And that's 21.
Matt: Okay, all three hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: The dark cloud aids his rolls.
Laura: (whispers) Vengeance!
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: 17 damage.
Laura: (whispers) Vengeance!
Taliesin: Better!
Travis: Vengeance!
Taliesin: 25.
Matt: All righty!
Taliesin: That went really well. The last one-- do I do any damage when I hit the head? Normal damage. So, last one is seven points of damage plus he's got--
Matt: Disadvantage on his attacks this round.
Taliesin: Yeah, disadvantage on attacks.
Matt: Gotcha. Do you want to stay where you are, or are you going to move?
Taliesin: Am I touching a wall?
Matt: You're right close to one. You can--
Laura: Stop touching me. Stop touching me.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to brace against a wall.
Matt: Okay. Brace against that wall, there. Gotcha.
Taliesin: And I'm going to mark all this off.
Matt: All righty. Okay. Next up is the creature.
Laura: Argh.
Matt: (Laughs) Because it rolled really high on its initiative. It's going to go ahead. Let's see, at a movement of 50 feet.
Liam: Oh god.
Laura: (gasps)
Travis: (whispers) Are we in a valley? Or are we--
Laura: We're in a freaking--
Marisha: We're in a death trap.
Liam: It crawled down the wall.
Sam: No, it's going to be fine, guys. We're like a--
Taliesin: We're outdoors.
Sam: The valley is like a taco shell.
Laura: Is it a valley, or is it like those are cliff sides and we could fall?
Matt: It's a valley. The cliff sides go up.
Sam: Yeah, it's like a taco shell and we're the meat.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: And we're-- Yeah. Yeah. (all laugh)
Matt: You could climb around it without a problem. But it's pretty sheer. You'd have to make climb checks if you want to--
Marisha: Yep, accurate.
Liam: We're in a tight spot.
Laura: Okay. Got it.
Liam: We're in a tight spot.
Marisha: Unless you're in Japan.
Matt: So it scurries forward--
Taliesin: Taco.
Matt: Lowers its jaw and rears its head back. As it does, you see its eyes flare with electrical energy and inside its mouth begins to glow with a brightish blue, white power.
Liam: Get down.
Matt: A bolt of electrical energy comes forward, hitting Grog, Vax, Scanlan, and Percy.
Travis: It's electrifying!
Laura: Electrified.
Matt: Well, let's see. Actually, no, it would move out to-- Hmm, that's only 20 feet, so to get maximum-- This, let's see.
Sam: Maybe it doesn't do math well.
Laura: Don't think about it, just go.
Sam: Maybe it doesn't know math well. Maybe it doesn't move right.
Laura: Don't calculate it, Matt. It's fine.
Matt: No, actually for optimal--
Laura: Fuck.
Matt: --optimal impact here, instead, it's going to go there.
Travis: I have to put my head in its mouth?
Matt: (laughs) Practically.
Liam: (laughs) Eh.
Matt: It will then do it on-- It would be Grog, Vex, and Trinket.
Sam: I approve of that.
Matt: I realized that its bolt is only 20 feet long. So, utilizing its optimal Lightning Bolt length, you guys were clustered together.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: All right, so I need you guys, you three, to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: With advantage?
Laura: With advantage because I'm in the mountains?
Matt: You do it with advantage. It only affects attacks, not for saving throws.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right. This is a magic save.
Travis: 19.
Matt: Good to know.
Taliesin: I probably should spend Grit.
Laura: 21.
Matt: All right. And Trinket?
Laura: Argh.
Liam: (Chewbacca sounds)
Laura: (growls) Eight. Yay.
Matt: He got an eight?
Laura: He got a eight.
Matt: Oof, okay. 33 points of lightning damage to both of you.
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: Wait, that means--
Matt: Trinket takes 66.
Sam: 66?
Laura: Trinket's fucking dead, yo.
Sam: What?!
Matt: Unconscious.
Laura: That fast?!
Travis: Which one  dead or unconscious?
Laura: He's unconscious.
Taliesin: Unconscious.
Travis: Don't throw around the "D" word, unless it's the "D" word time.
Matt: So, as there was a crackling of energy forward, you two brace yourself, managing to get mostly out of the way. Unfortunately, both of you dodging out of the way leaves an open shot for bear, that just takes the brunt of it, throwing Trinket up against the side of the actual mountainous cavern. And slumps to the ground, smoking off the fur.
Laura: Does Trinket have to make saving throws?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Death saving throws? Yes.
Marisha: No one has any resistance, spell resistance?
Matt: Not yet. Until we get to his turn. That will end--
Laura: Ooh, ooh, wait.
Marisha: Forgetting-- Your armor? I've got a spell you're--
Laura: He's only got 42 hit points.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: Technically, he should have more from leveling up. But, even more wouldn't be that much higher, so-- Okay, so that's rough. That ends its turn. Vex, you're up first. (all laugh)
Travis: She would like to rage.
Marisha: (as Matt) So that sucks, but--
Laura: Vengeance! Vengeance.
Taliesin: Say your soul is forfeit.
Laura: I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: And then I'm going to-- Why is he closer now? Sorry, Grog. I'm going to Hail of Thorns him.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Grog is always in the way.
Laura: Yeah, well--
Travis: I do need a good back tickle.
Liam: (as Grog) Got an itch back there.
Travis: Yeah. (laughs)
Laura: 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Laura: No, wait, that's wrong. No, 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Laura: (sighs) I'm so angry right now! Thorn's d--
Travis: It's not at me for once.
Laura: Ten. (sighs) 3d10.
Taliesin: For once, you're not the one doing damage to the bear.
Travis: That's good.
Laura: 18 plus two is 20.
Marisha: It's a bonus action, so we can do other shit if Scanlan and I both do it.
Laura: What is that?
Travis: 22.
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22 also hits.
Laura: No, that's the attack.
Matt: That's the damage. Okay, gotcha. And Grog, also--
Laura: Oh, yeah.
Matt: Because you're right next to it.
Travis: (posh accent) Would that be considered piercing, bludgeoning, or slashing damage?
Matt: (posh accent) It doesn't matter, you have not taken your turn to rage yet.
Travis: (posh accent) Oh fucking shit. (all laugh)
Matt: That would be full damage upon you, Grog.
Travis: Ow! (laughs)
Laura: Oh shit, I'm sorry. The other one was 27.
Matt: To hit? Okay.
Laura: Awoo. Ten plus--
Sam: Angry d10.
Laura: Plus 15.
Matt: 15. That's including the Hunter's Mark, right?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right, good.
Laura: Oh wait, no, I wasn't adding the seven. Wait no, that's a lie. That's a 15, 16, 17, plus five. 21.
Matt: 21, got it. So, as you look over and you see Trinket on the ground, smoldering spire of smoke pouring off of his body--
Laura: Can I pull him? Can I pull him out of the way?
Marisha: Smells like burnt fur.
Sam: Burnt fur.
Laura: Just pull him into the little crevice, for my move.
Matt: This way, do you mean?
Laura: For my move. Is that a move action, or would it be an action-action?
Matt: That would be more of an action-action, unfortunately.
Laura: Ugh. Oh no.
Matt: But you angrily turn around, release your arrow, firing a completely furious Hail of Thorns into the creature. As it hits, it shatters across its hide, some of it scattering onto Grog. You don't even care. You just focus the anger, pull out a second arrow, unleash this one. Actually jamming underneath one of the scales. You can see a little trickle of dark, deep purple blood beginning to pour from the wound.
Laura: I get out of the line.
Matt: Okay, where do you want to go?
Laura: Towards the little crevice.
Matt: Right there?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Did we lose--
Laura: But I still want to be near Trinket.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Getting ass-lit up with the Hail of Thorns, I go into a rage.
Laura: I'm so sorry.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Travis: I go into a Frenzied Rage!
Matt: All righty.
Travis: And I would like to attack three times with my flaming warhammer.
Matt: Certainly.
Liam: No more shopping today.
Travis: That is 24.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 21?
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Eee! 26.
Matt: That also hits.
Travis: Nice. Those were really good rolls. Okay. First one is 11.
Laura: I think I missed a box.
Travis: 13? First one.
Matt: 13 damage. Good to know.
Taliesin: Brought another sign.
Travis: 14 for the second one.
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Travis: Yes. 17 and 18, 19, 20, 21 plus the fire damage.
Matt: Good to know.
Travis: Including fire damage.
Matt: All right, so, going into the rage, you just see that same fury. You can smell the burnt hair in the air and you use that to fuel that moment of pain. You just (impact sounds) and just start bludgeoning the creature right up in its face. You can see it's thrashing and snarling at you and snapping with each blow. You guys are locked in this titan-versus-human battle right now. Cool, and are you going to stay where you are?
Travis: I'm going to move. Can I move towards you a little bit?
Matt: This way, there?
Travis: Yes, staying next to him, but just out of the way of other projectiles that might be coming up my butthole.
Matt: Fair enough. (laughs) Okay, Grog. Ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. I'm right next to Trinket, right?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Marisha: Okay, right? Where is Trinket?
Matt: Trinket's right there. You're over here.
Liam: Follow the smell.
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and go to Trinket.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: Oh, that's right. Make a death saving throw, by the way.
Sam: Oh, snap.
Matt: Almost forgot.
Laura: (whimpers) Oh no.
Matt: Roll a d20.
Liam: (sings) Roll high.
Marisha: He'll be fine. He'll be fine.
Taliesin: Roll like your bear depends on it.
Travis: You should pick a blood-colored one.
Laura: Why would you do that? He rolled a 19.
Sam: Ooh.
Matt: Okay, so not creeping closer to death yet.
Laura: Don't say that.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to go ahead and do a Cure Wounds spell on him.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Thank you, Keyleth.
Marisha: I'll just do first level.
Sam: Oh. Trinket's not worth second level?
Marisha: No no no no no. I'll give him a-- shut up, Scanlan. (all laugh)
Liam: Wake him up, wake him up, wake him up.
Marisha: I instantly felt guilty, dick.
Taliesin: You guilted her up to another level.
Marisha: Yeah, you did. Okay.
Travis: (laughs) That was the best.
Sam: I would've done a cantrip.
Marisha: (laughs) That's 2d8 plus ten.
Travis: Dick.
Laura: 2d8 plus ten? That's great. (all laugh)
Travis: Guilted it for an imaginary bear.
Marisha: All right, that's pretty good.
Taliesin: That's not bad.
Marisha: That's an eight and a seven plus ten. So--
Matt: 25.
Sam: 25.
Marisha: 25.
Laura: 25!
Matt: So Trinket's at 25 hit points, conscious.
Laura: That's great!
Matt: Prone, but conscious.
Laura: He licks her.
Matt: You hear the-- okay. (laughs)
Marisha: And then, as a bonus action--
Taliesin: Ack.
Matt: Mm-hm?
Marisha: Can I, looking at whatever the shit this is, pull out my spark stone--
Laura: (gasps)
Marisha: --that I got from my Fire Ashari.
Sam: That's a thing? Oooh.
Matt: Uh-huh.
Marisha: And (shattering sound).
Sam: (gasps)
Taliesin: Oh, wow! We're going there.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Is that, like, "Break glass in case of emergency"?
Marisha: Yeah, I don't know what it does.
Sam: (laughs) Oh, great!
Travis: We'll find out.
Sam: Hope I'm right next to you.
Matt: After you finish healing Trinket--
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: -- you pull up, reach out, and pull this. And you're going to hold it in your hands, you could feel it's warm to the touch. Almost too hot to hold. And there's this slight pulsing, almost like a heartbeat pulse to it. You hold it in your hands and just crush it, concentrating all your energy on it. As you do, what seemed to be hard and sturdy all of a sudden turns brittle in your fingers, and it cracks and breaks, almost like it was made of a very, very brittle earth. As it breaks and your hands come together, the "too hot to touch" becomes too hot to touch, and for a moment, your hands burst into flames--
Sam: Ah.
Matt: And you instinctively pull back like you want to go ahead and put out the fire--
Marisha: Ow!
Matt: -- but then it falls to a normal temperature again, but the flames remain.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: And you can now see your hands are now emitting flame from all the fingers.
Sam: Woo.
Laura: Is that permanent?
Sam: What does it do?
Marisha: We'll find out. And I go Minxie.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Yeah, Minxie! (all cheer)
Marisha: And I brought the hood. (all laugh)
Sam: Too hot to handle, too cold to hold.
Liam: That tiger's on fire!
Travis: They in control.
Matt: Keyleth transforms into Minxie! And as Minxie--
Travis: Bobby Brown.
Matt: -- appears, her form transitioning into this large, albino sabre-toothed tiger--
Sam: (sing) Well, I guess we're gonna have to take control.
Taliesin: (sing) Well, I guess we're gonna have to take control.
Matt: You can see both of the tiger's claws embedded into the ground of this rocky terrain are having licks of fire and flame curling off of the actual claws.
Marisha: Hell, yeah. I look like an Ed Hardy tattoo. (all laugh)
Matt: (laughs) I regret everything! (all laugh)
Matt: All right. That's your turn. Are you going to move, are you going to stay there?
Marisha: Well, I moved to Trinket.
Matt: Right, but you can break your movement up.
Marisha: Oh, yeah.
Matt: You've moved 20 feet, so you still have ten more feet to move if you want to.
Marisha: I'll start heading to try and flank him. To flank the blue beastie.
Matt: That should be there. Okay. All right, that ends Keyleth. Now would be Tiberius. Tiberius, who now takes the turn to cast Stoneskin on himself. Then backs up behind this side, there, preparing for the next round. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, Vax drops low. I click the boots of haste together, and for everyone who keeps asking, if I click my boots of haste together, I then get to attack three times. I get that question about three times a week. So that's how I do it. So, I click the boots of haste together, and then I'm going to crouch low and scoot. No, the other side of Minxie, and I should be able to go 60 feet without a problem all the way past the fucker.
Matt: Mm-hm?
Liam: Yeah, keep going, as far as I can. That's as far as I can go?
Matt: Yep.
Liam: All right. And I guess I will just dagger him in the ass, then.
Matt: All right.
Liam: So-- First is a--
Taliesin: I love that die.
Liam: Two, three, 24?
Matt: 24 hits.
Liam: Yes. And this would be Sneak Attack--
Matt: This is with Sneak Attack, yep.
Liam: Because he's with Grog.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Yeah!
Liam: So, here's the damage for the attack. Ooh. Two, seven, is nine, plus-- Ooh.
Laura: Ooh, oh no.
Liam: This is 13, 17, 19, 20, 26, 31 for the first.
Travis: Jesus.
Liam: Second attack go. Oh, that's not the right die at all. Second attack goes. Same. Eee, 23?
Matt: All right, that hits.
Liam: Okay. And this is--
Matt: Regular damage now.
Liam: Yeah yeah yeah. That's seven?
Matt: Seven, all righty.
Liam: And then the last dagger, the keen dagger, stabs him in the butt again, and that is--
Laura: Ow.
Liam: Ow, 16.
Matt: 16. That does not hit.
Liam: Whiff!
Matt: You actually go with a third one. The first one stabs through, and you can see you've actually hit some sort of an internal organ as you pull back and starts gouting blood. You see that, you stab a second blade in the same area and tend to open the wound another inch, inch and a half. The third one, you pull back, but it slinks around over its shoulder, its long sinewy neck curling over and staring at you. And your blade catches the hide instead and streaks off of the scales.
Liam: Oh, hi.
Matt: That'll end your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Do I have to heal Trinket anymore?
Laura: No, he's okay.
Sam: Okay. Then I will-- (laughs) Let's see here. Do we want to get him away from us, or do we want to hurt him? Let's do--
Laura: We want to hurt him!
Sam: Well, I don't hurt things very well. (laughs)
Travis: Do what you're going to do.
Laura: Do what you do.
Taliesin: You hurt feelings.
Marisha: You do you, Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. I'll do some Bigby Hand.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: I summon Bigby's Hand. (sings) Bigby's Hand! (all laugh)
Matt: This giant spectral hand, sparkling arcane energy appears roughly in front of your space.
Sam: It's in front of me. I can't make it go in front of him?
Matt: You can.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Like, I'm just saying, from a flavor standpoint.
Sam: Okay. Well then, I do one of these, the Sugar Ray Leonard. I do this-- (all laugh)
Sam: And then I throw my other hand forward. (all laugh)
Sam: And I'll just punch him in the face.
Matt: Go for it. (all laugh)
Matt: I like that.
Sam: Right? Because I can do the-- It says huge or smaller creature, at least with Grasping Hand. Is that only-- does that count?
Matt: Right. Oh. You can just punch something with it, no matter its size, to do damage.
Sam: So the Clenched Fisht, Clenched Fist.
Matt: Correct. Correct.
Laura: Clenched Fisht.
Matt: Clenched Fisht.
Sam: Clenched Fisht attack, Money Penny.
Matt: Thish ish the one you're talking about. Yes. All right, so-- For the Clenched Fist, make a melee spell attack. So roll a d20 and add your spell attack modifier.
Sam: (laughs) Nope. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: 13.
Matt: 13. As the fist swings out, it ducks out of the way. Its serpentine body ducking as the fist arcs off into the middle of the air.
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: Spinning around, preparing itself for a secondary round, hopefully.
Laura: Good try, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh boy. (laughs)
Matt: That's good.
Liam: Vax sees it fly over his head, and watches it pass. (all laugh)
Sam: I'll take a step to my left, so I'm not in the same line of fire as Percy.
Matt: All right.
Sam: And I'll also inspire Grog. (sings) He's Grog, he's Grog, he's big, he's strong, like wood. He's better than bad, he's good. (all laugh)
Laura: That's awesome.
Matt: (sings) Everyone wants a Grog.
Travis: That's amazing. Is that a ten? That's a ten?
Matt: d10, yeah.
Travis: Amazing.
Matt: d10 Inspiration die from the bard.
Travis: Thank you, Scanlan.
Matt: Top of the round again. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to scoot a little bit forward, just into that little crevice. I'm going to take three more shots, just to see what I can do.
Matt: Okay. You have the Sharpshooter feat, right?
Taliesin: With the Sharpshooter feat.
Matt: Okay, so yeah. Because it would have partial cover right now, but you ignore that with the--
Taliesin: I have Sharpshooter, so I can ignore cover.
Matt: Good to know.
Taliesin: Yeah, so. But I'm going to be taking a negative for these hits. Still three attacks per--
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. Just making sure I'm doing this right.
Matt: But you have to reload after this turn.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Oh no.
Travis: Misfire?
Taliesin: Misfire. (all groan)
Matt: First shot. As you pull up to the side, you pull your pepperbox out and go to fire. As you do, you pull the trigger and the actual barrel sticks out the side. Spins off, and (ping-ping-ping) on the ground.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: So that's your attack.
Marisha: Balls.
Matt: That's your turn because it'll take you the rest of the turn to collect the Bad News.
Sam: Just say, "Your soul is forfeit," just for coolness. (all laugh)
Taliesin: This normally doesn't happen to me. I don't quite know what-- (all laugh)
Travis: It happens to all guys sometimes. (all laugh)
Taliesin: So can I, at least, use my bonus to pick up the pieces and--
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to pick up the pieces and--
Matt: You collect Pepperbox and you pull your back up to it and mutter curses.
Laura: Oh no.
Liam: Make sure you grab your dignity as well.
Taliesin: I'm just going to leave that as an open target for a little while.
Matt: Fair enough. Okay. Now, on its turn--
Sam: Oh shit.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: First off, let's see here.
Liam: Damn it, attack attack!
Sam: We did great. (laughs)
Matt: But that does not recharge its Lightning Breath. It's going to move here. It's going to go ahead and make two attacks. It's going to turn around and its head that's looking at you, now, after you stabbed it in the back.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Reaches down, its giant jaws open. You can see, like, this thick saliva that's coating its fangs, and it, with serpentine speed, bites at you.
Liam: Hey, rogue's Evasion.
Matt: That's going to be a 23 to hit.
Liam: So, Uncanny Dodge, I can dodge for half damage, so it was a what to hit?
Matt: 23.
Liam: 23 hits, but I take half damage.
Matt: All right.
Laura: (as Vax) Half damage.
Matt: So, let's see. That would be--
Liam: Yesh.
Marisha: Does a bite attack--
Liam: Half. Not whole.
Laura: (as Vax) Half damage.
Liam: 152 hit points.
Travis: Stop rolling, Jesus.
Matt: (laughs) It would be 26 damage, so you take 13.
Liam: Ah, nothing.
Laura: Okay, okay.
Taliesin: Ain't nothing.
Laura: Don't say that's nothing.
Matt: Points of piercing damage.
Laura: Don't say that's nothing.
Matt: And then, as it bites, it turns around and its tail begins to snake around your body, Grog.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: And its whole body begins to try to reach around to constrict and crush you.
Travis: Oh shit.
Laura: What?
Matt: That is a 21 to hit.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: All righty, so. You take 21 points in bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Halved.
Matt: So that'd be 11 points of bludgeoning damage plus 21 points of slashing damage.
Sam: Whoa.
Travis: Halved.
Matt: As well. So a total of 22 damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And you are considered grappled and restrained, currently, as the entire creature begins to wrap around you. And you're currently (sound of struggle). You're trying to hold onto your axe but your whole body's being crushed by this large serpentine creature. (all laugh)
Travis: You piece of shit.
Matt: You feel every pulse of its muscles tensing. As the pain and ache, you can feel muscles and ligaments tearing and popping as it pulls in on you.
Travis: Not cool.
Matt: And it's going to, as part of its grapple, move you with it to there. And it'll end its turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. How does the Hide thing work? Do I hide at the beginning of the turn or at the end of the turn?
Matt: At the end of the turn.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to move out.
Matt: Okay, it has a reach of ten. So you are technically within its melee range. So you can run but you'll take attack of opportunity from it if you do. Just so you're aware.
Laura: Can I still arrow it from where I am?
Matt: You can, but you have disadvantage on all your ranged attacks because you are in melee range.
Laura: Does it cancel out because I'm in the mountains?
Matt: Doesn't affect your attacks.
Laura: Damn it.
Matt: Sorry. It's up to you, you can stay where you are and take disadvantage on all your attacks, or you could run past and it gets a free swipe on you. Your call.
Laura: I'm going to try to back up.
Matt: Okay. Over to here? Like, how far?
Laura: Oh no. Wait, I can't see. I forgot my glasses.
Matt: Okay, you're right here.
Laura: Uh-huh.
Matt: You can try and back up this way if you wanted to get away.
Laura: Yeah, I'll try to back up towards, who is that?
Matt: That's Scanlan there. Oh, here?
Laura: Percy? I'll try to back towards Percy.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Over here?
Laura: Sure, yeah. Why not?
Matt: Okay, all right.
Sam: What's Trinket doing?
Laura: Well, Trinket's healed, and he's going to come with me.
Matt: Okay. So Trinket gets up and used half its 40 movement. It can move--
Laura: Although he's angry about it, because he wants to fight, but I just won't let him right now.
Matt: Okay, so as you rush away, the creature takes-- Ooh, that's a 26 to hit.
Laura: Aw, Jesus. Really?
Sam: Oh shit, does it hit Trinket, too?
Laura: No, just me.
Marisha: 26.
Laura: Trinket was too far away.
Matt: So you take 18 points of piercing damage. Oh, it's 3d10, sorry.
Laura: Oh. (laughs)
Matt: 19. I rolled a one for damage.
Laura: Oh, yay!
Matt: 19 points of piercing damage as its mouth lashes out, takes a chunk of your shoulder for a second, and you wrench yourself away and keep running.
Laura: Ugh.
Matt: Take the rest of your turn.
Laura: Ugh, okay. I'm going to shoot him.
Matt: Yes, you are.
Laura: Okay. That is 22.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: Okay. 14 for the first hit.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Second one is through the blazing bow, at 22.
Matt: Second one hits, first one misses, or did it hit?
Laura: Oh no, 14 was the damage to it.
Matt: For damage? All right, second one, blazing bow?
Laura: And then, (noises).
Sam: (noises)
Laura: (noises) Ugh. 16.
Matt: 16 damage, all right. Okay.
Laura: Oh, and I hide.
Matt: You currently are completely in its visual range. You have to be behind something to reasonably become hidden.
Laura: I'm hiding behind--
Taliesin: But you are behind me.
Laura: Percy.
Matt: No, behind a person doesn't work. It has to be, like, behind a pillar.
Marisha: Human shield.
Matt: Or in deep shadow.
Laura: (groans) Oh.
Matt: Something that would break your line of sight to it--
Travis: Like me.
Matt: For a moment, to the point where it no longer knows quite where you are.
Marisha: It works.
Taliesin: It totally works.
Laura: I hid in the wrong place.
Sam: Who said that? Who said that?
Laura: I went to the wrong place.
Matt: But now you know.
Laura: It's okay. Next time I know.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Putting glass for the dog--
Matt: That's your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to try and break the grapple.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20, yes.
Marisha: I can picture that. Why did you do that?
Matt: Because you are restrained--
Taliesin: Kicking myself.
Matt: Need to check what effect the condition-- Here. Just to be safe. Okay, yeah. Go ahead and you're making an athletics check.
Travis: Natural 20. (all cheer)
Travis: Oh, that was good.
Matt: All right, so--
Travis: I bite its tail.
Marisha: Yeah. (all laugh)
Laura: You can.
Travis: Son of a bitch! Ahhh!
Matt: As your teeth sink into one of its scales and you yank it out with the sheer force of your muscly neck.
Laura: Throw it over my way. I'll catch it.
Matt: It unfurls for a second, you manage to pull yourself out of its grasp.
Travis: I'm so pissed that I broke free, that I would like to use Intimidating Presence on this creature.
Matt: Okay. All right. That is an action to do that, though, isn't it?
Travis: Is it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Travis: I reserve Intimidating Presence--
Matt: For a later time.
Travis: (laughs) -- for a later time.
Matt: But you have a bonus action, still.
Travis: I hit the shit out of it. (all laugh)
Matt: You gain another attack, go for it.
Travis: Okay, 21.
Matt: 21 does hit.
Travis: All right, that's 22. 22! Sorry, 22 hits?
Matt: Also hits. One more.
Travis: Oh, I get one more.
Laura: Ha ha! Also 22.
Travis: Also 22.
Matt: "Hit" meaning--
Sam: You hit once.
Matt: It was one better than your previous--
Travis: Oh, got you.
Matt: You hit once, yeah.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: Just one hit.
Matt: Just one hit.
Sam: Just keep rolling 22s.
Laura: Just keep rolling.
Travis: Nine, ten, 11, 12. 15.
Matt: 15 points.
Travis: With fire damage!
Matt: All right, so, as you pull away, you reach back with your hammer and slam it into its side, causing this giant burst of fire--
Travis: Bitch.
Matt: To emanate from the impact. It shrinks back for a second and (growls).
Travis: You grabbed me. You ask first.
Taliesin: This is a repair die.
Matt: (laughs) All right, Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: I'm going to do my Bite and Claw attacks.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to move in that crux a little bit more, one more, if I can?
Matt: There? All righty.
Marisha: Beautiful. I'm going to do my claw attacks first.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: To see what they-- what it does.
Matt: What was it?
Marisha: It was cocked.
Sam: It was halfway between two.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So that's 12, plus, it's always different. Okay, 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: I haven't been Minxie in battle for a while, 1d10 plus five.
Laura: Plus your flaming claws.
Travis: (laughs) I love Minxie.
Laura: Don't forget your flaming claws.
Liam: She's got the plan.
Marisha: Yeah, six, so 11 damage for the claws.
Matt: An additional 1d6 fire damage.
Marisha: Plus 1d6, oh wait that's actually-- What did I just say? I said ten, 11? And then an extra 1d6?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Ooh, another four, so what did I say?
Sam: 15.
Matt: So, any of your claw attacks or any claw attacks you do in any of your forms now get an additional 1d6 fire damage.
Sam: Nice!
Travis: Hell yeah!
Sam: Nice!
Marisha: Then I'm going to do my bite attack.
Matt: All right, go for it. Your bite does not get the effect.
Laura: I know, it was really loud!
Travis: It was a good one.
Marisha: 16, so plus-- 20, plus my six, plus seven, so 24.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage for the bite.
Marisha: Which is 2d6. Eight plus five, so 12.
Matt: Eight plus five is 13.
Marisha: 13, 14! Plus, I get an extra damage for my collar, so 14.
Matt: Right. Cool. So, your flaming claw strikes across its outer body, its legs pull away from the pain as you reach up and bite into the edge of its tail. As its tail tries to whip away, you catch it and it pulls you forward a few feet as you clench down on it. Eventually, it yanks its way out, taking a couple of scales with it, you can see a streak where teeth marks are on the back of its tail.
Marisha: (growls)
Matt: Awesome. Does that end your turn?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Nice, Minxie!
Marisha: (growls)
Matt: Tiberius is going to go around the corner again and is going to cast Telekinesis and send his glaive up spinning.
Laura: Glaive?
Sam: He has a glaive?
Laura: The thing that he killed the old lady with.
Sam: Oh!
Liam: It's the granny grinder!
Marisha: Granny grinder?!
Matt: Granny grinder?!
Travis: So bad.
Matt: Rolls a two, unfortunately, though. Just streaks off and spins back around and then, while it misses the creature and stops, hovering above his head with a slow spin. Sits there curling his fingers, grinning at the creature. And is going to the use of the rest of this movement to go back behind the rock because mama didn't raise no fool. Vax, you're up.
Liam: It's preoccupied, so I just leisurely walk backwards about 30 feet, looking at the same wound that I started before.
Matt: This way?
Liam: No, back up the chasm here. Even further away. Yeah! And I'm just going to throw three daggers into the wound I already hit, so I'm going to do that again. I know that hits because it hit the last time. That's a 23.
Matt: That hits!
Liam: And that's Sneak Attack because he's occupied. That's 11 plus--
Laura: Ooh, those are good!
Liam: 11 plus 17, 21, 26, 29, 34, 39 for the first dagger.
Sam: What, that's just the first dagger?!
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: Whoa!
Matt: Sneak Attack, man.
Liam: Next one doesn't hit, probably, that's a 17.
Matt: 17 just barely hits.
Liam: Just barely hits, yeah! That is an eight of damage. And just wait a second and go-- and throw it. And because I was such a cock it misses, that's a 16.
Matt: So, oh, perfect! Second dagger wedges in with the second dagger, opening the wound even more. You're like, perfect opening! You go for the third one, and it's grown wise to it, and turns around and rakes its claw out and deflects the dagger midair.
Liam: Vex, look at me! Oh, shit.
Laura: Nice one! Nice!
Matt: That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Oh! This is unusual.
Marisha: A turn.
Sam: I still have my Bigby's Hand up, so I do one of these where I say, oh, a wise guy, see? (taunting noises) and I just poke him in the eyes.
Matt: All right, as you say "Wise guy, eh?" as this giant hand's floating in the air, and its head snarls at it and tries to bite at the hand. Go ahead and roll your spell attack.
Sam: 19.
Matt: So, you get to go ahead and--
Sam: 4d8.
Matt: Yeah, 4d8 points of force damage.
Marisha: It's the eyes!
Laura: Into the eyeballs!
Sam: 19.
Matt: 19 points of force damage as you jam both its fingers into the sides of its head. Both of its eyes recoil on it, it reaches out and starts thrashing at the air around as the hand dodges around for a minute.
Sam: I hide behind Trinket, the smell of smoldering fur in my nose. As a bonus action, I will-- who's up next, who's coming soon? Is Percy next?
Taliesin: I'm up next.
Sam: I'll inspire Percy. Just doing this move--
Marisha: Sexy dance.
Sam: Going, pour some Scanlan on you! When you need a hand! That's all I've got.
Taliesin: Ugh!
Sam: And I get closer. Pour some Scanlan on you!
Matt: You begrudgingly take 1d10 inspiration dice from Scanlan.
Travis: Is the creature blinded from the pokey-poke?
Matt: It is not. It is a resilient creature, and the impact was mainly absorbed by the ocular sockets, as opposed to the eyes themselves.
Travis: Hey, I didn't ask for science. Jesus. (all laugh)
Matt: There's bone around-- never mind. All right. It ends Scanlan's turn. Percy, you're up.
Travis: (laughs) Just a little pokey.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to try and fix this broken piece of gosa.
Sam: Do I lose another spell for that, or is that just the same--?
Matt: No, you can maintain concentration.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: I hit a 12, which is just barely enough to fix it.
Matt: Okay. So you take your action to go ahead and repair the gun.
Taliesin: And I'm going to burn an Action Surge, so I'm just-- I finally get it, and it just starts going. And I'm just going to empty out the chamber.
Matt: All right, three shots.
Marisha: (laughs) It just starts going.
Taliesin: Ho, nelly.
Matt: Using your bonus action to reload.
Travis: I got my finger on the trigger, I got my finger on the trigger, gun!
Taliesin: I don't have to reload, yet, I've got six shots, so we're still three in the chamber.
Matt: That's right. We-- yeah, yeah.
Taliesin: Unless you, actually--
Matt: As part of the misfire, you would lose one, so you have two in the chamber right now.
Taliesin: I have two in the chamber?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Okay, so I'll do two, and then use the third one to reload.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Pew, pew.
Laura: (high-pitched) Pew, pew.
Taliesin: All right, so-- Ooh, this'll be fun.
Sam: Don't shoot me.
Taliesin: Sharpshooter shot. That's 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Travis: Nice.
Taliesin: I'll just take the second shot right now. That's-- really? Really? Really, are we going there?
Laura: Oh, no.
Sam: Did he misfire again?
Marisha: No, you didn't misfire, did you?
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: Misfired again. I rolled a two.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: I got one shot off.
Matt: You got one shot off. Go ahead and roll damage. Sharpshooter damage, so it gets the plus ten damage.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: That's fun.
Laura: Could you have added inspiration dice to that?
Taliesin: To a misfire? No.
Matt: No, misfire still hits. There is a lot of strengths to the gunslinger. This is the one penalty, is if you roll bad.
Taliesin: So that's, okay, at least this is a badass, as I at least did some damage. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 24 damage, plus four points of fire damage.
Matt: Nice. Okay. So, as you go, and you fix it-- It takes the first shot, with a burst of flame that shoots out the front of the barrel. The second shot, this time, the actual metal in the front arcs upward, and it looks like this is going to take a moment, to really seriously repair it. Pepperbox is coming through pretty rough in this fight.
Laura: Oh, no. Oh no.
Matt: So that's your turn.
Travis: But not as rough as Stitch over there, huh?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: We're in a group.
Matt: Yeah. (laughs) The creature does regain use of its Lightning Breath.
Liam: Right.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Oh, I was about to say, and--
Matt: So you wanna move anywhere?
Taliesin: Yeah, I wanna get a little further back. I wanna roll to the other side of the cave again, if possible.
Matt: Which way? You mean over here?
Taliesin: Yeah. Like, see that little outcropping of rock?
Matt: Right here?
Taliesin: Further back. Like that over there.
Marisha: That little chunky thing?
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Smart move, Percy.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: That thing scares me.
Laura: Why are you abandoning me?
Matt: Okay. That ends Percy's turn.
Taliesin: The beast.
Marisha: I don't like the dice that I have.
Travis: Don't think too hard.
Taliesin: That's not good.
Sam: No.
Laura: It just burps out lightning.
Travis: Jesus, I don't think we've ever seen anything this hard.
Laura: I know.
Liam: Guys, guys.
Sam: What is he doing?
Liam: Guys.
Marisha: Have you seen anything like it?
Sam: What is he doing?
Liam: Guys.
Laura: He's thinking.
Liam: Guys.
Sam: We broke the DM.
Laura: I know.
Travis: You know the silence before the storm?
Matt: Considering optimal--
Laura: This is bad.
Liam: He erupts.
Travis: He hasn't said anything.
Matt: All right. So. (all groan)
Marisha: You stared at that for a really long time.
Sam: Here comes the other three.
Travis: Here comes the boom?
Matt: So, this behir is going to shift back here. You get an attack of opportunity on it, Keyleth. So go ahead and take a swing.
Liam: Burn it.
Sam: Fire slap!
Marisha: So. 16.
Matt: 16 just misses. It gets right out of your grasp. The flames just lick across the outside of its scales. As it pulls back, rears down right in your face, Godzilla-style, just unleashes a burst of electrical energy.
Laura: Oh, God. Dodge it. Dodge it.
Matt: It hits you and Keyleth. I need you guys to both make dexterity saving throws.
Sam: With inspiration.
Marisha: Who, me and Grog? Okay.
Sam: With inspiration.
Travis: I don't need it.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: Dexterity saves? That's not good.
Travis: 19.
Marisha: Four.
Matt: 33 points of lightning damage to you, Grog. 66 to you.
Travis: Can I use my Stone's Endurance?
Matt: You can.
Travis: Okay.
Taliesin: What?!
Matt: What's the maximum health of Minxie's form?
Marisha: Looking-- I'm out.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm now in Keyleth form.
Matt: And how much damage goes over?
Marisha: Not that many, thank God. 12.
Matt: 12. Okay, so you-- As Minxie all of a sudden gets blasted, you can see the form shrink down to Keyleth's crumpled form on the ground, hands still flaming, little bit of singe to the back of her hair, and stands back up.
Taliesin: I'll take that. I'll take that. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: That'll end its turn. Vex, you're up.
Marisha: That felt like Shockwave.
Laura: Oh, God. Can I, as a bonus action, give Trinket a healing potion?
Matt: You can-- that would be more of an action to feed it to something else.
Laura: Okay, never mind. I am going to attack it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Okay. He's, oh, I missed. That's a 14.
Matt: A 14 does not hit, unfortunately. The first arrow just ricochets and shatters across the part of its body.
Laura: Great. Good times, good times. 16. Both miss. Fucking A. What a waste.
Matt: Both arrows just explode across its hide. It's too thick.
Laura: This dice is out for the rest of the game. I'm gonna run. Is there an outcropping where we are? I can't see.
Matt: Right here, a little bit. If you pull fully in on this side from where it--
Laura: I'm going to pull fully in on that side.
Matt: Okay. Don't forget your laser pointers, by the way, guys. It's good for letting me know exactly where you want to go.
Laura: I can't see.
Matt: I know. Just so you know. And Trinket's going to stay there?
Laura: He's gonna rest. And he's going to keep protecting Scanlan, because--
Matt: All right. Trinket's gonna stay right there, guarding the giant gnome.
Sam: Oh, thank you. Giant gnome?
Matt: Giant hand, small gnome. Grog, you're up.
Travis: (yells) I try and match the Godzilla roar, it's not really as good, and I swing three times with my fire hammer.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: That's a 18.
Matt: 18. That hits.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Travis: And 19.
Matt: 19 hits. Roll damage.
Laura: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: That anus! That's 13.
Laura: Eee, good.
Travis: 23, and 22.
Matt: All righty. How do you want to do this? (all yell)
Taliesin: But you never said he looked a little rough! I kept waiting for you to say it's looking a little rough.
Matt: It's hard to tell with this entity.
Taliesin: Damn it!
Matt: It's moving so fast.
Travis: I'd like to reach up with my firebrand warhammer.
Sam: Yes!
Travis: And I would like to smash it on top of its skull, and when it hits the ground, I'd just like to keep turning it into jelly and paste and sweet jams that I can bottle it up and sell later!
Matt: You guys watch this continuous barrage, this horrible bludgeoning. Every impact almost quakes the inside of this valley. Rocks are beginning to tumble and fall around it. And you can see, as each horrible, sickening smack, its head just collapses more and more. The mush begins to spill out from under it, this giant pool of, like, dark violet liquid and gelatinous mush that was once the inside of its head, begin to just grow around it as Grog just keeps hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting--
Marisha: Grog? Grog?
Matt: And hitting and hitting--
Laura: Grog?
Sam: I use Bigby's Hand to stop the hammer.
Laura: Maybe you unrage. Lullaby, Hulk. Lullaby.
Sam: It's over. It's over.
Marisha: Lullaby?!
Travis: Lullaby?!
Sam: Think of the beard.
Travis: What happened?
Taliesin: Well.
Laura: You killed it real good!
Travis: Oh, look, we made jelly.
Marisha: Speaking of jelly, I would like to go ahead and do a nature check to see if I can salvage some goods from whatever.
Laura: I run, I walk up to it and kick it, and say, that's for Trinket. Dick.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Can I roll a hit dice to recover some--
Matt: If you guys want to take a short rest, you can.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: That'd be great.
Taliesin: Yes! I would like to fix my gun. Just a giant pile of tools.
Laura: Do we need to hide? Do we need to climb up to its little cave that it was in, maybe? And hide.
Sam: Did it have a cave?
Travis: Was it in a cave?
Laura: It had a cave. Didn't it come out of a cave, when we saw it?
Matt: You saw it was up on a higher platform, you didn't see a cavern, or anything.
Laura: Oh, I thought it was a cave.
Marisha: I rolled a 21 to collect goods.
Matt: Okay, looking through the book that you have. You eventually take a while to look while you guys are having your short rest. You can use your hit dice to heal yourself. It is known as a behir.
Sam: A behir?
Matt: B-E-H-I-R.
Marisha: B-E-H-I-R.
Taliesin: Behir.
Travis: Be here.
Laura: Be here right now. Be present.
Matt: Behir. There are two things. Anything in the face and teeth are gone. They are just mush. The entire head is destroyed.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: The the two things in the book that are worthwhile, like, really worth money, are some of its hide can be repurposed for, you know, like, lightning resist-based armor, but currently it's unknown who has the speciality to actually work with that material. These creatures are difficult to harvest and a lot of their locations are unknown. A lot of them were hunted down for that long ago and almost thought to have gone extinct. (all groan)
Matt: However, yes, you don't know anybody, possibly Karin in Emon. The hide can be harvested. There is also a gland in its throat that it uses to charge its Lightning Breath.
Taliesin: I'd like that.
Marisha: I'd like that.
Matt: Go ahead and roll for the hide first, if you guys want to go for that.
Laura: Can I stealth and climb up and see if I can see a cavern?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: A little cave.
Marisha: Natural 20!
Travis: Oh snap!
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: I'll take it.
Sam: She gets advantage because mountains are her favorite terrain.
Laura: What do I add to that?
Matt: This would be, add your--
Laura: Acrobatics?
Matt: For climb, this would be athletics.
Laura: Athletics. Oh, really? That's not what it was; I moved it.
Liam: It was 14, I saw it.
Laura: Oh no, 12.
Matt: It takes you a little bit to get up there. It's steep, you slide down a few times. But eventually, because there's no immediate threat, you're given time to get up onto this upper platform. You can see that there are these various parts of the rock that jut outward, that have some short term passageways that this creature uses.
Laura: I'm so weak, but I'm holding to see if I see a cave.
Matt: (laughs) Roll a perception check.
Laura: (groans)
Matt: Once you're up there. You take time and with help from some other folks, you manage to harvest, I'd say about ten pounds worth of scales at most. It's not a whole lot. A lot of it has been torn and destroyed from the impact and damage you guys did. Parts of it are not really armory functional, but you manage to get enough to maybe make one set if somebody manages to work really well with it.
Marisha: Here, Grog, bag of holding.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23? Currently, you have no eye shot on any particular--
Sam: Don't eat it, Grog.
Matt: -- tunnels. Nothing that resembles an abode or a cavern from this position.
Taliesin: Lick it.
Laura: (groans)
Liam: I see my sister's struggling.
Laura: Oh god it hurts.
Liam: I climb up next to her.
Laura: You're almost as weak as I am, dude.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Here we go.
Liam: Acrobatics? What is it?
Matt: Athletics.
Laura: Athletics.
Travis: Athletics.
Liam: Athletics? Oh, shit. Acrobatics would have been much better.
Travis: Oh yeah, c'mon.
Laura: I know, I don't think so.
Liam: Can I flip up there?
Matt: Eh, it doesn't work like that.
Liam: No, no-- (all laugh)
Travis: No, I can't.
Liam: Wait, I'll use Luck. I'll do it again to get--
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: You're going to use one of your Lucks?
Liam: -- to get past that one.
Laura: No, we were about to rest. Wow.
Liam: Oh, no, I didn't.
Laura: Oh, really, you rolled worse than me.
Liam: Oh no, my fingernail, that really stings. Damn it.
Matt: The twins give a--
Marisha: Just terrible.
Matt: -- terrible display of rock climbing in the middle of this.
Travis: I laugh heartily.
Taliesin: Parkour! Parkour!
Matt: Go ahead and roll for the glands.
Marisha: The glands?
Liam: Stupid video game moment of like jump, jump, jump, jump.
Laura: Like Skyrim trying to get--
Marisha: Glands? 18 is not bad. I'll take that 18 for a 28. Hey, Vax, can I see your dagger?
Liam: Yeah, here you go.
Sam: He's up a hill.
Laura: Nice. We didn't even get up a little bit.
Matt: It takes most of your short rest. You will not be able to use your hit dice for healing on this, because you spend your time harvesting instead. But you manage to-- thankfully, the damage that Grog had inflicted upon its head destroyed most of its matter, right up to the throat gland which is mostly untouched. It's salvageable. You don't know how much it's worth. Probably a decent amount, as the book says that they're rare. Especially to find intact.
Travis: That Grog, what a dick.
Taliesin: We have jars. I'm going to put that into the jar and put it away.
Travis: There's not even like a tooth. Like one broken tooth? A piece?
Matt: You did a number on that one's face.
Travis: When Grog goes to work. LIAM Boom. Kill the behir, take its glands, money.
Taliesin: I may have something I can do with this actually.
Travis: With what, the gland?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Maybe, yes. (electricity noises)
Taliesin: You're very clever, yes. We'll work on that.
Travis: Hello? I don't speak your language.
Matt: You place it within a preservation jar.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Back in the bag of holding?
Taliesin: Back in the bag of holding.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and fix this mess, for a minute.
Matt: Go ahead and make your check.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18. It does cost you half the--
Taliesin: It wasn't a dual fail.
Matt: Oh right, just a single fail. It was a dual fail, but it was separate.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You take some time with it during the short rest to tinker with it. You manage to bend the metal back in place. Test it for a bit. Make sure the aspects that move move smoothly as they should. Eventually, you get pretty confident that it is back to a functional piece of weaponry. All right, so, as you guys finish this rest--
Travis: I'm rolling one more hit dice.
Matt: Go for it. The sky is starting to get a little bit into the orangish color. Though you can not see the sun from its current location, you gather you have about an hour and a half or so before full sundown.
Sam: Let's get out of this little taco in case that was the daughter of something else.
Matt: Wait, you guys stayed the night-- never mind, in the cavern. So actually, no, I take that back.
Sam: Oh?
Matt: I just realized you guys stayed the night last time over on the seaside cavern and walked here--
Travis: That's right.
Matt: -- and it only took you a few hours to get here. So, no, it'd be about mid-day noon.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So, I take that back. Never mind.
Liam: Ah.
Sam: We should still go.
Matt: Can see the sun, it is straight above.
Taliesin: We should still get out of the taco.
Matt: There is some cloud cover coming in.
Travis: Definitely should still leave.
Matt: From the north side, it doesn't look like anything too dense.
Marisha: Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Marisha: Do you know how much longer we need to continue on this path?
Taliesin: Honestly, I've never taken this road before. This is further east than I've ever come.
Marisha: Can we see how far ahead-- does it look like it goes on for a while, this chasm?
Matt: It moves around, so it's hard to get to much of a visual of the--
Taliesin: The geology starting to look familiar?
Laura: Does my tracking tell me anything?
Matt: You can go ahead and make a nature check.
Liam: For all of this, I'd like to--
Matt: With advantage.
Liam: -- walk about 40 feet in front of everyone and creep along.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 17.
Liam: Cloak up.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Sam: He's a weird loner, that guy.
Travis: He is.
Liam: It's my job.
Matt: Make a stealth check. The mountains here got its name for the white stone mountains. The rock--
Taliesin: It's starting to look like home, though?
Matt: Yeah. The mountain range here is a large part of the material that is mined, well, was mined beneath the-- It's very rare white quartz-like rock that is used for many purposes. And it's generally only found in this mountain range. It's what a lot of the Whitestone's original economy was based on.
Liam: 22.
Matt: 22, good to know. All right, so.
Laura: 17 on nature.
Matt: Okay. I mean, you gather the same thing. The rock formations here match the same as the coastal mountains. The mountain here is all made of the same material, few deposits here and there of just normal bits of granite and other forms of simple stone.
Laura: Granite.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Simple stone. (all laugh)
Travis: That was so much better than shopping. (all laugh)
Matt: As you guys are pressing forward, at this point, you guys are taking your time waiting and Tiberius is getting impatient, and is crossing his arms. "I feel like I should have gotten more materials. I don't think I'm quite prepared enough for this."
Laura: What? Tiberius, you prepared a lot.
Liam: Tibs.
Matt: "Not enough. Never enough".
Liam: You brought along a sack of mirrors, I think you've got enough. What do you need?
Matt: "I have an idea. I'll be back in a few days."
All: What, no?
Sam: Don't leave.
Matt: He sits down and starts making his teleportation circle.
Laura: No, no, we need that!
Liam: Tiberius.
Laura: We need that.
Liam: Tiberius.
Laura: We need that. Tiberius.
Liam: You are a heavy hitter, we don't know where we're going, what we're doing. He's strong. You're strong, in a way, maybe hang out a little bit longer.
Laura: He's actually got a lot of hit points, really.
Travis: Yeah, he's got a lot.
Matt: (laughs)
Liam: More than I do. You're stronger in frame than I am. Sure you want to go?
Matt: Tiberius leans in and whispers to you in a strange tongue and it sparks in your ear somewhere. (whispers) "The player's not here and the DM's trying to not make it too complicated for him to keep track of an additional character for this session." (all laugh)
Laura: I understand that.
Liam: (whispers) I know, but I'm just trying to give you a hard time. (all laugh)
Matt: I'll remember that.
Laura: Oh, no.
Taliesin: I grab Lockheed and we hold him hostage. (all laugh)
Marisha: You can't leave! (all laugh)
Laura: We need you.
Matt: "Don't worry, I'll be back soon and now I know how to find you."
Liam: (whispers) Send an iPad with Pike on it. (all laugh)
Matt: He finishes his teleportation circle and with a whoosh, with a flash, vanishes.
Laura: Shit. Really, Tiberius, really?
Marisha: He does that a lot.
Sam: It's very much in his character.
Laura: (groans)
Travis: Where'd Tiberius go?
Liam: He went to get an army, I think.
Laura: (groans)
Travis: That's fine.
Taliesin: Or more mirrors.
Marisha: It might be more mirrors.
Taliesin: Or an army with mirrors.
Marisha: An army with mirrors.
Liam: I can do magic. I do this great coin trick thing where I flip it on my thumb and then it lands in my hand.
Laura: And then, you pull it--
Liam: That's the end of it.
Laura: -- out of someone's ear.
Liam: It's right here.
Laura: Whoa!
Travis: We start walking.
Marisha: That's fun.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, I'm walking.
Matt: Progressing forward--
Marisha: It's a start.
Matt: -- you begin to--
Travis: Jauntily stealth ahead.
Liam: 40 feet out, yeah.
Travis: Like a beagle.
Laura: I keep a perception out to see anything.
Taliesin: I'm keeping an eye open for anything familiar.
Sam: Can I just bump into Vex and ask her to maybe scan ahead for dragons?
Laura: What do you think I'm doing?
Sam: Dragons, though. Six miles.
Laura: I'm scanning.
Sam: Don't you have six miles of dragons or something? Thank you.
Taliesin: Do you have to do the hands?
Travis: Is that your scanning face?
Matt: It's good to help out in the--
Laura: I'm thinking.
Sam: Six miles of dragons.
Laura: I'm wanting to see if I see any dragons. Do I see any dragons?
Travis: I thought you did a different technique last time.
Matt: You take a moment and anticipate the circumstance, and there is, within-- what's the distance on it?
All: Six miles.
Matt: Six miles?
Liam: Yeah, man.
Matt: You ascertain that there are quite a few sources of life in this vicinity, of some sort of dragon kin or dragon-like entity.
Laura: Was the behir a dragony sort of thing?
Matt: No. Technically not, from what you can gather, but you do gather there are a few blips that are three miles off north, at the center of the mountain range. You don't know how big or how dangerous, but you sense there are some dragon or dragon kin sources.
Laura: There's a dragony something.
Sam: Could be dragon eggs.
Marisha: Dragonborn?
Laura: I don't know, Scanlan.
Marisha: You're not picking up Tiberius six miles away?
Laura: There's dragony things, though.
Sam: Listen. When I poo somewhere, I can see everything.
Laura: I didn't poo. I'm sensing with my mind.
Travis: Listen, if we do run across a dragon, remember we have the dragon slayer longsword, which is a plus one to attack and damage rolls, and if you hit a dragon or a dragon creature, it gets an extra 3d6 of damage.
Laura: What are you reading? How did you even know that?
Taliesin: That's the most complicated sentence I think I've ever heard you speak.
Travis: Sorry, I blacked out for a little bit. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Nothing.
Laura: Nothing. You're good, Grog.
Travis: What do you have to do to attunement?
Matt: Attunement, you take a short rest with the weapon, learning its properties.
Travis: Caressing it?
Matt: Essentially. Stroking it, making sure it feels comfortable.
Taliesin: Buying it dinner.
Matt: Nice spread so it feels welcome.
Travis: That's more than I usually do.
Laura: Maybe a steak, some salad. Shrimp cocktail.
Travis: Just in case you need a sword.
Liam: As we progress, I say into my earring, Scanlan, I've seen some of the logs she's left behind. They're not small.
Laura: (gasps) You are seriously. What?
Taliesin: Wow.
Laura: That's disgusting.
Travis: I missed it. It must be good, though.
Sam: She usually buries them quite well.
Laura: Really gross, both of you. Enough.
Liam: They don't sense anything.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: Well, we're not heading north.
Sam: We're not?
Matt: You guys are heading eastish.
Taliesin: Westish. We're heading westish.
Laura: Nothing that I can sense.
Travis: Can we keep walking?
Matt: You guys came up on the eastern side-- sorry, the western side of the mountains. You're now heading eastward.
Taliesin: Oh, we came up on the western side of the mountains?
Laura: There's nothing that we're going to run across.
Liam: Just flip that.
Marisha: Western side of the mountains?
Taliesin: Western side of the mountains? So Whitestone's to the east?
Matt: Whitestone would be to the east of you guys.
Taliesin: Oh, okay. I thought we went up the eastern side of the mountains. I'm so confused. You wouldn't think I'd lived here before.
Matt: That would have brought you through the forest, and you were trying to avoid that. That's what I thought you said last time.
Taliesin: No, that's very true. Oh, god.
Travis: West side's on the shore side, right? Ocean's there?
Matt: There's a giant peninsula to the north. Either side would have been coast.
Laura: So we're not going to run into any dragons?
Sam: At least we're not going north.
Matt: You're aware that they're not anywhere close to you to currently be an issue, no.
Laura: Okay, we're fine.
Taliesin: In two or three miles, we'll take another check.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: (laughs) He winked at me!
Matt: All right, so.
Travis: It's like being blessed.
Sam: We're going to just keep going towards the town.
Matt: You guys press on, following this winding path that narrows at certain points and then widens for a bit. You come across, partway through, the twins at the front notice, around the edges as it begins to descend down into the beginning of the valley descent, you see an edge of the mountain that looks more angular than the usual natural formations of it. It almost looks like it comes to a point, like a very sharp edge, and a smooth side.
Liam: I'm not sure I understand. We see a drop-off?
Matt: It begins to descend towards the valley, and on the side of one of the giant--
Travis: Chasms?
Matt: Chasm you guys are at the bottom of. You see an outcropping ahead that's angular and pointed.
Sam: Like, designed by man?
Matt: Like it was sculpted, constructed.
Travis: That might have sentries.
Liam: Some sort of outlook or something. Something that was not formed by nature here.
Taliesin: Do I know what this is?
Matt: You--
Taliesin: History check?
Matt: I'd say, make an intelligence check. Roll and add your intelligence modifier.
Travis: I could do it with you, if you want.
Matt: You can make a history check. You know many things that exist here in the mountains, but at this distance, you don't see enough of it to actually--
Laura: (shocked noise)
Travis: He's not going to let me do it.
Laura: He rolled a natural 20.
Matt: For?
Travis: An intelligence check, because I'm an idiot.
Sam: He doesn't know the--
Taliesin: I kind of want Grog to speak truth right here.
Laura: He's an expert on mountains.
Matt: Actually, this works out interestingly. As you guys are walking forward and you're seeing this, and you're keeping back, Grog, you instinctively look over and go, oh. That's a stone giant fortress.
All: Oh!
Marisha: Shut up!
Travis: (laughs) I did something smart! (all laugh)
Matt: With your bloodline and knowing where you come from, and you've had a few close encounters in the Cliffkeep Mountains with a few of this kind, you've seen a few fortresses, and from the details of it, the way of the roof, and the scope of its design, and the way the mountain range lends itself to that type of topography, yeah. This is obviously a stone giant fortress.
Travis: Oh, and I drank some of that nasty dank in the fight with the Hammer, round two.
Sam: Wait, should we-- those are bad guys, right?
Travis: Yeah, that's bad.
Sam: We should not go that way.
Laura: We should definitely stay away from that.
Travis: Maybe go up on the other side of the chasm opposite of it?
Matt: Or you can move around the side, you're welcome to.
Laura: Maybe hide and make sure we're hidey-hidey?
Sam: We could stealth through it, we could invisible through it.
Marisha: Pass Without a Trace.
Travis: Pass Without a Trace.
Laura: I have Pass Without a Trace.
Travis: And climb along the opposite side.
Laura: And do we have invisibil--oh, no.
Taliesin: No, we don't, no.
Laura: You have--
Sam: I have some invisibility. Not great, though.
Travis: I have dust of tracelessness.
Laura: Maybe we'll stealth it.
Liam: Can I hide Scanlan under my cloak? Can he use his invisibility on someone else?
Matt: If he was to cast Invisibility on you--
Liam: No, on somebody else, so I'd just hide him.
Travis: What about one of those things that always works on me--
Matt: You could--
Travis: -- a diversion?
Matt: You would move very slow and you would have disadvantage on your stealth checks because you guys don't have a way to move quietly.
Liam: All right, all right.
Laura: No, I don't want to bring any attention.
Marisha: I could create a diversion.
Sam: What kind?
Laura: Like what?
Marisha: I mean, I could-- What's nearby? Is anything nearby? Any animals? Have we seen any wildlife?
Matt: There have been birds that fly through, an occasional harpy, in the distance you hear screeching and you guys keep quiet until it vanishes and disappears. (screech in the background music)
Taliesin: Wow.
Travis: That was perfect timing!
Laura: How'd that happen? How did that frickin' happen?
Travis: His ways are mysterious, my love.
Laura: You are magic.
Matt: I am lucky.
Taliesin: Holy cow.
Matt: What were some seafaring like seagulls and various coastal birds have slowly been disappearing and turning into more eagles and hawks, things that eat small rodents, more of a lush side of the hill. You see as you get closer to the valley itself that the actual forest that surrounds Whitestone is more and more of these birds of prey are beginning to show up. Other than that, you see very few small things other than occasional lizards about that big in your hand that live on hot rocks.
Taliesin: Should we observe this encampment for a bit, just to see what's happening as we slowly make our way around it?
Laura: Can we see any kind of movement? It's really far away, or--?
Travis: Couldn't hurt.
Matt: It's still a ways away right now, you're just catching the edge of it.
Sam: Are we a mile away? A thousand feet away?
Matt: I'd say you're about a good 600, 700 feet from it.
Liam: That's not that far.
Travis: You know, we could try to work our way up the opposite side of the chasm.
Taliesin: That would also allow us a good view of it as well.
Marisha: I happen to have Hallucinatory Terrain right now.
Sam: What does that even mean?
Marisha: It means exactly what it sounds like.
Sam: I don't speak your language.
Marisha: I can make terrain that's not real.
Liam: Do you remember when we psyched out the duergar--
Sam: It would block their view of us maybe? Perhaps?
Laura: Is it movable?
Travis: Yeah, it can't move with us.
Marisha: It could block their view of us.
Liam: Can you make some shrubs to come along with us?
Matt: You guys actually used it previously to camp for a night along a cliffside.
Laura: Right.
Matt: And made the cliff extend further than it was.
Liam: Yeah, we lured a bunch of duergar into a chasm that the ground extended over.
Laura: Let's try to climb up the other side and then see what we can see.
Marisha: I mean, I can do a lot of things, I can make a thunderstorm, I can make a sleet storm.
Sam: That would keep them in their fortress.
Travis: Could you make it fire?
Marisha: I could.
Taliesin: Or very cold if they came out.
Laura: They like cold.
Taliesin: Oh, yes.
Marisha: I could, I could make a big storm.
Travis: We're also on a chasm, so if it gets wet and slippery and muddy we might all go down.
Taliesin: That's true.
Laura: Maybe get up at the top of it and then do this.
Taliesin: I like the plan of going up the other side of the chasm.
Laura: Can we try to climb the other side?
Matt: Certainly.
Liam: Giants like to throw fucking boulders.
Laura: Yeah, I don't wanna be down on the bottom.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: As you guys make your way up the other side, you're helping each other, I want everyone to go ahead and make an athletics check.
Sam: I put on my climbing gear, which I definitely own.
Marisha: An athletics check?
Matt: Okay, giving you advantage on your athletics check.
Laura: I actually own climbing gear too, does that help?
Matt: That would help you, yes.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: I have mine too, so I'll put that on as well.
Marisha: I don't know if I have climbing--
Taliesin: I don't know if I have climbing gear.
Travis: Attached to a rope and a grappling hook that's in my hand.
Sam: And it was the same. (laughs)
Matt: All right. So.
Sam: What am I doing? Adding what?
Travis: Fuck yeah! Nipple tits.
Matt: You have advantage, you add your strength modifier. Or your athletics is what it would be.
Sam: Athletics.
Laura: Do we add anything because of the climbing gear or is it?
Matt: You get advantage because of the climbing gear.
Laura: Ah, that's important.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26.
Liam: We were all using climbing gear or just--
Matt: No, those who have it.
Laura: I give you my climbing gear because I already get advantage. How about that? Does that count? No.
Matt: Because it is mountain? All right, I'll let you do that.
Laura: All right.
Liam: All right, well, I got 19.
Matt: 19.
Laura: Oh, so you don't need that.
Liam: Yes I do, I need it.
Sam: 11.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26. Vex, what did you get?
Laura: I got 15.
Marisha: 11.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: Okay. A couple of missteps and almost sliding, Keyleth, at one point, you grasp her by the hand and Grog pulls her back up onto the platform.
Travis: No, no, up here.
Marisha: Thanks, Grog.
Matt: Over time, you guys make your way along this very rocky and precarious, anywhere from five to three to two feet in width, sometimes even lesser than that and you guys are having to shimmy across. You make your way around and you can see this large fortress that is built out of extremely large and in-place stones and stonework. It looks ancient. For size-wise, it's two stories for a giant, which means it's probably close to six or seven stories of height.
Laura: Whoa.
Matt: Built into the side of a mountain, and it goes down almost like two giant steps. It's built on essentially where the giant bowl, the caldera if you will, of where this valley of this mountain range would be. It's built on the inside of it, so it's actually constructed, as you continue to descend into the valley. Looking at it, you can see openings, windows, there are areas up top where you see giant piles of rocks and boulders that are used for anti-siege, for throwing off the top, stockpiles of that. You do see boulders around the ground that may have been thrown and not picked up. Everyone make a perception check.
Laura: I feel-- (whispers) Should I say?
Liam: (whispers) I'm not gonna tell you.
Taliesin: That's an intimidation check.
Laura: How did Trinket get up the cavern?
Matt: Hm?
Laura: Can Trinket climb?
Matt: Trinket--
Taliesin: Bears climb!
Marisha: Bears are good climbers.
Laura: They're good climbers?
Taliesin: They can get up a tree.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Roll an athletics check with disadvantage.
Sam: Disadvantage.
Laura: I'm sorry! But it felt wrong to lie.
Matt: Rangers.
Sam: Of course. It's an honor system.
Liam: Could I have given the climbing gear to Trinket?
Laura: No.
Travis: No. (all laugh)
Taliesin: You could've, it just would've been adorable.
Laura: But we could tie the rope around Trinket's waist.
Matt: Roll your dice.
Laura: With an athletics check?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Does he get an advantage because of mountains?
Marisha: I love that he says 'roll your dice' like it matters.
Matt: Nope. He gets disadvantage because he's a big bear.
Travis: I told her not to say it, why'd you say it?
Laura: I'm just trying to be honest!
Matt: Which is appreciated.
Laura: Strength modifier? He got a 15, too.
Matt: Okay. It's been difficult, and it slowed your guys' progression, but you've managed to keep Trinket along with you; this large bear is now like pushing against the side. He's managed to keep up, but it's been a harrowing experience.
Liam: I've been behind him the whole time, pushing on his buttocks.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: You got this buddy, you got this.
Matt: So, once again, perception rolls.
Laura: Sorry. Yes.
Taliesin: 20.
Marisha: 19.
Sam: 17.
Liam: Can I use passive perception?
Matt: This is active actually looking for something; the passive is more--
Liam: Well then, I get-- 26.
Travis: 15.
Laura: 19.
Matt: All right. You got 26, you said?
Liam: Yep.
Matt: Looking from this distance, and keeping the best visual you can see, there is no movement, at all, from the interior of the fortress. The two front doors, you see these two large stone doors that are the entrance to it. One of the doors is actually broken in half and left partially ajar and open.
Travis: We gotta go in now.
Laura: No, no, no.
Sam: They could be dead in there.
Laura: If something could've taken out giant giants. What could it be that could've done that?
Travis: Vampire giants.
Taliesin: It could've been the Briarwoods. We should see everything that's up here.
Sam: (sings) There are giants in the sky.
Travis: How awesome would that be?
Laura: (sings) There are big, tall, terrible giants in the sky.
Travis: Can we please go see? Can someone please--
Sam: You want me to go in?
Travis: Vax!?
Marisha: I can bird it. I can bird it and go in.
Taliesin: I can't believe I'm about to say this.
Marisha: Bird in and do a recon mission real quick?
Sam: You're going to bird in? They're going to see you fly in.
Laura: No, but she's a bird.
Marisha: I'm a bird.
Sam: It doesn't matter, they're still gonna see you.
Laura: Recon it.
Marisha: I'll go bat!
Laura: Yeah!
Taliesin: Now you're not going to be able to see anything because they have terrible eyesight.
Marisha: Not in a small--
Taliesin: I'm kidding, they really don't. That's a myth! That's actually a myth!
Marisha: They have echo vision!
Taliesin: They have actually very reasonable eyesight. That's a myth. You can look it up on Wikipedia, it's true.
Marisha: (laughs) Very reasonable eyesight.
Liam: You could also be a sparrow.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So, at about the two in the afternoon day sun, 'cause that's what it is. But you're fine. You become a bat--
Marisha: Bats come out during the day!
Matt: I know. She makes her way, down through; you swoop up to one of the windows and you glance inside and look around. You can see most of the furniture inside is in tatters. There are large, giant-sized tables and chairs that have been broken in half and strewn across the room. Make a perception check.
Laura: Ooh, come on, Keyleth!
Sam: Come on, oh yeah.
Taliesin: Oh yeah!
Marisha: Oh yeah! 28.
Matt: 28. Glancing inside you also see there are--
Marisha: (squawks) That's my echovision.
Matt: -- splatters and puddles of blood. Large bits of blood across the ground that is dried, but from your current vision from this, there is no sign of any living or individuals or bodies. There was a battle that took place here, but there is nothing present to signify who or what.
Marisha: How big is this room?
Matt: This room is about 25 feet tall
Marisha: Does it look like it goes deeper?
Matt: It does look like it goes deeper, there is a slight-- this is the upper floor, there is a grade, almost like a slow-- the word escapes me for a second.
Marisha: Like a downgrade.
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Like a ramp.
Matt: A ramp!
Sam: A slope.
Matt: Thank you.
Matt: A ramp that disappears below and into the lower floor.
Sam: A siggle.
Marisha: I'm gonna go into that-- (all laugh)
Travis: Careful. Oh no no no no! Don't roll! Don't roll! (all shout)
Taliesin: We turn on him.
Marisha: Fear of god.
Liam: Grog sacrifices the gnome. (all laugh)
Matt: So yeah, you do see the ramp, that's downward.
Marisha: I'm going to go into the room that I see is for sure empty, and go toward the threshold of the ramp.
Matt: Okay. Make your way down to the threshold of the ramp, looking down. Downstairs as well, it looks like there are some fur rugs set aside that have been kicked aside and bunched up on the edge of the room.
Marisha: Like it's been ransacked, or just a really nasty fight?
Matt: Like some sort of a major fight went down. No sign of any bodies or body parts. No sign of leftover weapons or armor from whatever giants lived in here. You just see large amounts of dried blood across the stone floors.
Marisha: Like something came in and slaughtered and completely stripped the place.
Matt: Or the giants slaughtered something horribly here and are currently out and about, you don't know. But--
Marisha: Can I tell if the blood looks-- how dusty is this shit?
Matt: Did you want to land and make an investigation check?
Sam: Call us in.
Travis: Do it.
Liam: Do it, Batwoman.
Taliesin: You are the night.
Marisha: How much dust goes pff?
Travis: (laughs) You are the night.
Matt: Quite a bit; a little puff.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Not a huge amount, but enough where it's not fresh, and a closer look, the blood's been dry for a while. Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: What is the sound of a bat coughing?
Marisha: (squawking and coughing noise)
Taliesin: Thank you. It's the simple things.
Travis: What did you get?
Marisha: Investigation. What about a 12?
Matt: 12. You can't really make it out, unfortunately. You know it's dried, it's been a little bit, but you can't quite gauge how long it's been.
Marisha: All right, I'm gonna go ahead and-- are there any other rooms, or is this it?
Matt: There's the upper floor, the lower floor. They're two large rooms on their own. It looks like-- You haven't actually gone down the grade yet, so.
Marisha: You said seven stories, so it's like room, downgrade, room, downgrade, room?
Matt: Seven stories for your size, it's two stories for a giant size. It's a large top room, and a large bottom room.
Laura: Ooh.
Marisha: Is there another room going off the bottom room?
Matt: There are just two rooms  top floor, bottom floor. You're currently on the top floor, looking down.
Sam: Split level condo.
Marisha: I'm gonna go out to the front door.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Nice flat, upper east side. Land, and I'm gonna bamf out of my bat form, and say, all right, it looks like the coast is clear if you guys want to check this place out.
Sam: Yeah, let's go check in.
Taliesin: Let's check it out.
Matt: All right, the rest of you make you way back down towards the front of the fortress and enter the inside. As you go through the front door, you see that the impact that destroyed it was from the inside out.
Sam: Oh!
Laura: Ooh.
Travis: Really?
Matt: So it's not like it was beaten in, it was beaten from the inside out.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: And there is a streak of dried blood against that portion of the door. Looking inside too, you see there are a large cluster of matted hides and furs, like it made for bedding for close to four or five giants put in the corner, and there is a musty smell of whatever they were using to make it comfortable and ripe for their own personal needs.
Liam: Stealth!
Laura: Yeah, yeah, let's stealth.
Travis: Can giants become vampires?
Laura: I don't know, I hope not. You should use the dust of tracelessness, Grog, just so our footsteps aren't seen.
Liam: 17.
Matt: 17, okay. So what do you guys want to do in here?
Laura: Stealth.
Sam: I'm going to go downstairs.
Marisha: How dark is it?
Matt: You are downstairs at the entrance
Sam: Oh. Down the grade, I mean.
Travis: I want to look for any weapons that are lying about.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Liam: I want to ransack the joint.
Matt: Actually, it'd be more of an investigation check.
Travis: Me, investigate? That's funny. Eight.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Investigate or perception for me?
Travis: I find dirt.
Matt: You find a giant's fortress.
Liam: Investigate or perception?
Matt: For this? Perception is just seeing things at first glance. Investigation is going through and rummaging through to find things.
Liam: I'll investigate.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Shall I for downstairs?
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Liam: 17.
Sam: 23.
Matt: Okay. As you guys are going through, looking at the blood and the way the splashes are, the blood that was spilled here was very thick, and large amounts of it, and it's probably been anywhere from two to three months since this entire fortress was ransacked.
Travis: Wow. MATT You do notice that some of the blood is dragged through, like something was dragged out of the puddle. But not for a long distance. Whatever was there was cleaned off at some point, or lifted up and carried out from whatever was originally pulled through those puddles of blood. You also do notice that in the pile of furs and refuse and there are bones of things that were left there to rot in the corner. You find roughly 120 gold pieces.
Sam: I give it to Vex.
Matt: Over time you find a number of shattered glass vials that look like they once contained various elixirs, there is one that is unshattered.
Sam: I take it.
Matt: All right. And underneath all, covered in quite a bit of filth, but a little bit of metallic sheen streaks through, you see what looks to be a very, very well-crafted longbow.
Laura: (gasps) What is that?! What is it? What did you find?
Sam: Nothing, nothing.
Laura: What is it? What is that?
Liam: Here you go
Laura: Ah, what is this?
Liam: What are you going to do with it?
Laura: What is this?
Sam: I'll use it as a hammock.
Liam: Shoot yourself?
Marisha: Does it look like it's magic-y?
Laura: Can I tell what it is?
Matt: Taking it, it appears to have some sort of magical radiance to it. It looks like it's very well crafted. You recognize the construction is elvish in nature.
Laura: Hey, look at this.
Matt: And there are bits of mithril scrolling all throughout the bow itself, with platinum caps on the edge of the longbow.
Travis: Is it evil?
Laura: I don't know. Keyleth, do you know anything about magic-y stuff? Tiberius bamfed out.
Marisha: I can try, I'm not as good as he is, but I'll try.
Laura: What about you, Scanlan? Do you know anything about arcana?
Marisha: Ooh, 20!
Matt: Natural 20?
Marisha: No, 18; 20 total.
Matt: Yes, this is definitively a magical item, it is enchanted.
Marisha: It's definitely magical.
Matt: If you want to take a short time to work with it and attune yourself to it, you could get a better idea of what its effect is.
Laura: Okay. Thank you. Can we do that?
Taliesin: I'm going to look around a bit more, anyway.
Laura: I'm going to think about it real hard.
Liam: Probably shoot a couple dummy arrows out of it
Travis: Can I walk out the front door?
Laura: I'm going to buy it a steak and I'm going to--
Travis: Can I walk out the front door and keep post on the porch?
Liam: I'm following Grog and I'm doing the same.
Matt: All right.
Travis: And I want to look in the direction we want to be walking.
Taliesin: I'm looking around, I'm trying to find out what happened to the bodies.
Matt: Investigation check for that. Here are the potion and the bow you guys managed to--
Laura: What is it, what is it?
Sam: I took the potion, I took the potion!
Matt: (laughs) Give that to Scanlan.
Taliesin: I know, apparently, from this roll that I'm in the mountains.
Laura: What is it?
Taliesin: I got a six.
Matt: A six. It's hard to tell. It's a very strange scene, and you have no inclination as to what may have transpired here. Who is the winner, who is the loser, and what has been done with the bodies.
Liam: Sorry.
Marisha: What did you find, what did you find?
Taliesin: Vex is making happy noises.
Liam: She's taking the bow for a spin.
Travis: She's attuning.
Liam: Seeing what it can do.
Travis: Do we see anything outside on the porch?
Matt: Over time the only thing you catch is occasionally you see flocks of birds moving through and swooping through the area. You watch one flock come up and begin circling a little bit.
Laura: Should we get out? Should we leave?
Matt: And then make its way down toward the valley.
Travis: Stealth.
Laura: Just leave. Let's leave. Stealth it out? Stealthy out-ie?
Matt: This is for Grog who is outside, roll a stealth check.
Liam: I'm out there too, and I rolled a natural 20.
Matt: Yes you did.
Travis: I might use your inspiration on this.
Sam: It's probably not in effect anymore.
Laura: (groans) No, you're in the mountains!
Travis: I am in the mountains.
Matt: Which means you have knowledge of mountains.
Laura: You don't get advantage?
Travis: I don't have advantage on--
Matt: Let me double-check on this, actually, what the specifics of the goliath's-- You don't take issues with cold climates, because you're at high elevation. You don't actually get advantage on anything mountain-wise; that is a ranger ability.
Travis: So can I add an inspiration on this?
Sam: I inspired him quite a while ago. How long does that--
Matt: It's been a while, how long does that last?
Sam: 20 minutes?
Matt: Yeah, that would've faded by now.
Travis: That's a one.
Matt: Oh, well, if it's a natural one it wouldn't have mattered.
Liam: Yeah, it doesn't matter, you can't add shit to one.
Matt: So while you sneak off to the side, you see these birds. There's a lot of birds there! You start yelling out to everyone, there's a lot of birds out here! Shouting it loudly back into the fortress.
Laura: Aw, shit.
Marisha: Grog, Grog, those might be centurion birds!
Travis: (loudly) That's what I said, birds!
Marisha: They might be spies! They might be spies.
Travis: (loudly) Yeah, I spy birds, they're flying everywhere. (yells) Go away!
Laura: Grog, Grog, inside.
Marisha: Inside!
Matt: The birds immediately start circling the fortress very close. You can hear the screeching. You can see the birds now, they're crows. A very, very thick murder of crows, probably close to a hundred of them, cawing.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace.
Marisha: Wait, wait, wait.
Sam: I'm still down there, investigating.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Sam: I pull a David Caruso and say, It looks like these giants had... big trouble. (all laugh)
Matt: You hear an echoing sound, yeahhhh! Formless, sourceless. You all stand there confused for a moment, then continue to try and stealth.
Travis: I run back inside.
Matt: Back inside. Eventually the crows take back to their original path.
Marisha: Oh, oh, but before the crows leave, before the crows leave--
Liam: Yeah?
Laura: Yeah?
Marisha: Can I do something?
Matt: Yep. What are you doing?
Laura: Do it!
Travis: Do it!
Sam: Kill them all.
Marisha: I'm gonna go like Storm and I'm gonna Sleet Storm them. I'm gonna start conjuring a Sleet Storm over the top of this mountain, right where the crows are.
Taliesin: It's been so long since you've killed something innocent! Let's bring it!
Laura: Do it, do it, Keyleth!
Matt: As Keyleth concentrates for a second, you see her eyes, the actual color of her irises, begin to fade to this cloudy white and then the entire eye itself becomes this icy blue. A slight cold mist beginning to drift off the corners of her face.
Laura: Badass.
Matt: You start hearing this pounding sound on the top of the fortress as sleet and hail begins to rain down. Go ahead and roll damage for the spell.
Marisha: Oh, jeez.
Matt: Sleet Storm? Oh, it's just a dexterity saving throw. It says heavily obscured, but doesn't actually do any damage.
Laura: But it knocks them all down.
Marisha: I know, they're like frozen though, right? Don't they get frozen with Sleet Storm?
Matt: Sleet Storm knocks things prone, makes the area hard to see.
Marisha: Knocks them prone
Matt: Douses flames.
Marisha: They're in the sky, I wanna hear birds hit the floor.
Matt: And a few do. There are a few birds that get pelted and knocked to the ground, encased in sleet, but most of it immediately takes note to get away from the storm and vanish and disappear back to--
Travis: Do they fall to the porch?
Matt: I'll say one does.
Travis: I run out there and I grab it.
Laura: No, no, no!
Travis: I rip its head off with my teeth. (all laugh)
Matt: Grog, you run out there and grab the one on the ground, it's struggling, and (squawks), there's ice gathered everywhere.
Travis: Yeah, shut up!
Matt: You grab it and you pick it up, you hear Vex go "Grog!" and you go (chomp) as she's staring at you. Silencing the crow. You hear the cawing of the crows dissipate in the distance and silence eventually takes the fortress once again, and you're left amongst the smell of death.
Laura: We should get the eff out of here.
Marisha: I think so.
Taliesin: We should probably leave.
Laura: Now. Stealth and out.
Laura: Dust of tracelessness. Hide ourselves.
Travis: Dust of tracelessness.
Matt: You make your way out of the fortress and begin to follow the path down into the outside of the forest and just as you make towards the base of the mountains where the forest canopy begins to take your vision, you can see just over the edge, a couple of small castle towers and what looks to be a single central spire of the castle of Whitestone.
Laura: They know we're here now. They know we're here.
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: I think they might.
Laura: That was a sentry.
Travis: Why? They were just birds.
Marisha: Yeah, but we don't know--
Sam: Don't worry, we still have the element of surprise. Oh wait, no, we don't.
Matt: And with that, we're going to go ahead and take a break. All right, guys, we'll be back here in about 20-25 minutes.
Laura: Oh yeah!
Matt: Let us begin where we left off.
Laura: Oh, we're looking at the city.
Sam: There's the city! Shall we storm it?
Taliesin: It's a chalkboard.
Laura: I was pointing at you!
Taliesin: Well yes, so I can now recognize where we are.
Matt: Yes, you know this area very well. This entire forested area, the Parchwood Forest that encompases the entirety of this valley, toward the center of it, center north, is where Whitestone sits and for your reference as well, since you've been here before, you would know the city relatively well.
Sam: Maps!
Taliesin: This is the most exciting map I've ever been handed. Whoa!
Laura: What the what?!
Matt: Hold that over by your seat there for people to take a look at.
Sam: Don't. Just don't.
Taliesin: It won't fit in my folder.
Matt: That is a basic rundown of the size, design and shape of Whitestone, with Castle Whitestone toward the top, built on top of a leveled off mountain that marks the southernmost point.
Sam: This is the castle, this is the town?
Travis: And we're at the southern part of that?
Matt: You guys are actually coming in from what would be the northwestern side of the city
Marisha: So over here?
Matt: A little bit further down. About that angle there. That's the direction you're coming in from.
Travis: That's a detailed map, man.
Matt: I don't have any free time anymore. (all laugh)
Travis: They sell those stock, right?
Matt: Oh yeah, totally.
Taliesin: What's this little outcropping?
Matt: The little outcropping to the east of it was the graveyard to Whitestone. It's where most of the regular denizens were interred. It's been expanded over the years as the city itself has been around for quite a few generations.
Marisha: Does this graveyard have catacombs? Tombs? Underground passages?
Matt: Do you ask this of Percy?
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: Does it?
Matt: That graveyard does not--
Taliesin: That graveyard does not--
Matt: -- it is a surface graveyard.
Taliesin: -- it is a surface graveyard.
Matt: There is a mausoleum--
Taliesin: There is a mausoleum--
Matt: -- but that--
Taliesin: -- but that--
Matt: -- is actually contained beneath the castle.
Taliesin: -- is actually contained beneath the castle. (all laugh)
Travis: Riveting.
Sam: So knowledgeable, Percy.
Laura: So Percy, do you know of any secret passages to get actually into the castle?
Taliesin: I was wondering that myself.
Matt: There is one, one that you took to escape.
Taliesin: Yes, there is one!
Marisha: (laughs) Stop.
Matt: He has an aneurysm. Yeah, it is to the very western edge of the mountain precipice the castle was built on. It was built to be specifically an escape in case the place was under siege. Unfortunately, the circumstances that the evening happened so rapidly, and with creatures that seemingly were unnatural, the family didn't have time to make it out. And even you weren't fully aware of it. Cassandra, however, had overheard discussions about the passage and took that as your escape route. It's a hidden tunnel at the very base of the mountain.
Taliesin: I say we scope out the hidden entrance, see if it's guarded, see if they've discovered it.
Sam: To the town, or to the castle?
Taliesin: The hidden entrance to the castle. Instead of using it, I think we should possibly spend the night and get a view of the town, see if there's anything unusual.
Laura: I agree, can we camp out and hide?
Sam: Watch from afar? What's that going to tell us?
Travis: We could send one in.
Taliesin: We could send a bird in. Or an invisible gnome.
Sam: Or both.
Taliesin: Or both. An invisible bird-gnome.
Travis: Just to see if the town is normal or not.
Sam: It could be all vampires. Or it could be a totally normal town.
Taliesin: If it's all vampires, it'll be empty right now.
Sam: Because it's daytime.
Laura: Because it's daytime.
Marisha: We should do a fly-by.
Laura: We should definitely attack during the day.
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: We should send one by air and one by land.
Laura: What?
Marisha: Do you want to do that?
Sam: How far away are we?
Matt: You guys have been travelling through the forest, and it is a very dense forest, but it is mostly cold-weather trees, pines. And there is, you can see once you get inside the forest, the ground itself is very thick and there are elements of melting snow on the top of the trees, there was recently a snowfall in this area but it seems like it's been a while and most of it has turned to slush and water. You have about two hours of travel into the forest, and you all immediately catch the sound of distant howling.
Sam: Is it nighttime?
Matt: No.
Sam: Oh. That's scary.
Marisha: Distant howling? Does it sound like wolves? Can I make a nature check?
Matt: Yeah, make a nature check.
Laura: Stealth?
Matt: If you want to make a stealth check
Marisha: 26.
Matt: 26. Those are wolves. It sounds like a pack of wolves, probably close to anywhere from five or six.
Marisha: Would I think it's weird that they're howling during the daytime?
Matt: You gather that it is strange that they're out. Though it is getting later in the day, you are pushing four or five in the afternoon, the sun is starting to get closer to the horizon. It is strange that they're out this early, you're not sure what the reasoning would be for that.
Marisha: Odd.
Taliesin: I say we hide in the trees.
Laura: Up high.
Travis: Like up in the trees?
Laura: I like it.
Travis: We're gonna climb some trees.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: We're gonna Hobbit this shit.
Sam: We're just hiding in the trees, we're not going in to investigate?
Taliesin: Well, it's about to be nighttime, so we'll send a scout.
Sam: How long would it take to get into the town from where we are?
Matt: About two more hours of travel.
Sam: Ew. We'll get there at night. That's all right though, it's early evening.
Marisha: How long would it take me to fly over if I was a bird?
Matt: About an hour.
Sam: Vax.
Liam: Yes?
Sam: Can I ride you into town?
Liam: You want me to jog into town?
Marisha: You could ride me into town.
Sam: Well hello lady.
Marisha: Man, every time, Scanlan, every time.
Taliesin: Now that just got weird.
Laura: Could you turn yourself and fly?
Sam: Yeah, I guess I could fly.
Marisha: You wanna go invisible and jump on my back and I can eagle up?
Sam: Whatever you're into, baby. (laughs) I've become Austin Powers.
Laura: Ridiculous.
Marisha: Let's do it.
Liam: If the coach driver was any indication, there are going to be people--
Laura: Normal people.
Liam: -- in town.
Sam: What about this  I'll make us both invisible and you fly us in.
Laura: I like it.
Travis: Yeah, get on the ground, not just above.
Matt: All right. Now, Invisibility  how long does it last at full duration?
Sam: Looking. Up to an hour. Ooh, and it takes two hours just to get there?
Matt: Well, flying takes an hour. So, it's one of those things you could do once you approach it. It'll last you awhile, as opposed to doing it now.
Sam: How long can you be Polymorphed for? Forever? Concentration?
Marisha: For half of my druid level, we discovered.
Matt: So somewhere around six hours, five hours.
Sam: Okay, so you fly us in, and I'll Invisibility us right as we get to the gates.
Travis: And as they're going out, we get in the trees.
Taliesin: Make sure you bring an earpiece.
Marisha: He's got an earpiece.
Travis: Do we, the four of us, all go up in the trees?
Liam: Everyone get your own tree.
Laura: Everyone get your own tree?
Matt: Everyone who's in a tree, please roll a stealth check.
Sam: Except for Trinket, who can't climb up.
Laura: Trinket can climb trees! Bears climb trees!
Matt: Roll an athletics check.
Laura: I'm casting Pass Without a Trace. How long does it last?
Sam: You have to roll for Trinket.
Laura: Okay, fine! I guess I'll cast it tonight, never mind.
Travis: Plus ten to stealth?
Laura: Why are you being a dick, Scanlan?
Matt: Well, she did not cast it.
Laura: I'm not casting it yet.
Travis: 14.
Laura: What are we rolling?
Travis: Stealth.
Liam: I already did. Those are good rolls!
Laura: 21 for me, and what do I-- just nothing. 19 for Trinket.
Matt: Okay. We'll say you guys all manage to slowly get yourself up into the tree the best you can, as you guys take off. While you guys are away, making your way towards Whitestone, the rest of you look down, and just from a passive perception standpoint, you pick up the most detail: you can see there is indeed a pack of about five wolves and/or dogs a little ways away, but they're being followed by one humanoid. They're being guided, there is a pack out here for some reason, whether it be a hunting party or whatever other reasons there may be. It isn't a wild pack.
Laura: And they're close to us now?
Travis: I've been doing the dust of tracelessness.
Laura: So, I'll cast it on us now that they're closer.
Marisha: I wonder if that's the ground search party.
Laura: Maybe.
Travis: We'll see.
Laura: So, should we add ten to all of our stealth rolls that had been, or do we have to roll again?
Matt: You'd have to roll again.
Laura: Shit balls.
Liam: So we're stealthing again in the tree?
Matt: Because she's casting Pass, or you won't get the benefit.
Liam: I'm already at a 32, man!
Travis: I'll take it.
Laura: You don't have to.
Liam: Let's do it, let's roll again.
Taliesin: Let's roll again.
Liam: What do we add?
Laura: Ten to whatever we roll.
Matt: Go ahead and just add ten to the previous roll. (all cheer)
Liam: Good.
Marisha: We want to keep our good rolls.
Matt: So, about five breathless moments pass as the dogs, wolves all get relatively close. One of them comes up and returns back to the pack. You don't get a good view of the individual that is currently guiding the pack, and you see them disappear between the thick trees in the distance. Make an active perception check for you, Vex, if you don't mind.
Laura: Not advantage. Mountains?
Matt: Is forest? No, you're in forest, now.
Laura: Oh wait! That's another!
Matt: You're sure that's a favored terrain? Then go ahead and roll again.
Laura: That was worse than the first one, that's great.
Matt: So your total is?
Liam: I rolled 20.
Laura: Okay, well, you didn't say you were doing it. 18.
Matt: 18, okay. It's hard to make out the details at this distance. You check out, it does appear to be a female form.
Laura: Oh, it's a chick!
Matt: Best you can tell, you can't tell specific race or details. Then, another minute passes before the barking and the howls fade and the hunting party seems to have been eluded.
Taliesin: There was no way to get a good look at who it was.
Matt: No. Do you want to make an active perception check?
Taliesin: Actually, I would love to.
Matt: Normally, if they'd passed by now--
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Travis: What?! Really?
Matt: A natural 20?!
Marisha: I'm looking at it!
Taliesin: This is an 'I love you' for those awful rolls earlier.
Travis: The golden snitch wins again.
Taliesin: That may be its name now.
Matt: You see the female form, it's not someone you particularly recognize. But the woman does appear to be older, probably in her late 40s, early 50s. She has some hunting gear over her shoulder. She has a short bow that's strapped over her, she has a quiver of arrows. She looks like she's hunting for food.
Sam: If she was a little older, Tiberius would kill her. (all laugh)
Sam: Give her ten years.
Matt: Give her ten years.
Taliesin: I don't recognize her, though?
Matt: No, you don't have an immediate lead of visual recognition. In the meantime, you guys make your way. Swooping down, you can see that cluster, that murder of crows circling out. It's making a large pass over this entire valley. You take this cue as you get to within visual range of the city to cast Invisibility on both of you. Is that a 3rd-level spell?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Okay. Both of you vanish from view, which is a strange feeling for you because you cannot see Keyleth, you're grasping onto something you can't see.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Matt: And you just look like you're gliding through the air.
Sam: Can I do one of these?
Matt: Yeah, you grab on very tightly.
Marisha: (choking noises)
Matt: -- without choking. The eagle does not have--
Sam: Damn it!
Matt: -- human physiology. You get two fistfuls of feathers. And you really don't want an eagle to buck you angrily at this height. I don't think you have Featherfall so that wouldn't go well. Looking over Whitestone, you can see outside of the city there are some areas where the trees are carved out, and there is farmland set up specifically to grow food and to till to maintain sustenance for the people that live there. You can see that there's a small area that's also being cut for timber. Not a perpetual thing, but the wood here is, you've heard previously, one of the major exports here is very high-quality timber from this type of tree that is used for very exquisite woodcraft and furniture. So that's one of the major exports of Whitestone as well as the quartz from the mines itself. There are people in the city, but sparse. Make a perception check.
Marisha: Can I also make a perception check?
Matt: You may.
Marisha: With my eagle vision?
Matt: (singsong) You may.
Marisha: 14, so that's 24. And I have Keen Sight, which means I have advantage on all perception checks.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Marisha: I'll take that 14.
Taliesin: She'll take that 14.
Marisha: As opposed to that one.
Matt: Total of 14?
Marisha: 24.
Matt: 24. Okay. As you get close enough to start scanning over details, you can see that a lot of the buildings appear to be closed or empty. There are people working in the fields. As you make your way to the center of the town, there is a town square. There is a tree there, a very large, old tree that is twisted, with all these various gnarled branches that reach out. You recall Desmond mentioning something called the Sun Tree that is the centerpiece of this area. And you get a view enough of the tree to see that there are eight humanoid bodies of varying ages swinging from it.
Sam: Ooh.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: You also notice that, patrolling through the city at very slow paces, there are a few larger than normal humanoids.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: You see what appear to be approximately six giants patrolling through the town, but you can see some of them are like wrecked and broken. One of them is missing an arm and is dragging a foot behind it.
Laura: They're zombie giants?!
Matt: Apparently, whenever one of them is moving through, most of the denizens of the town keep a very wide berth, and generally avoid them entirely and go about their business, at a distance.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: I miss Pike.
Travis: Six?
Sam: No problem.
Matt: Like over all of the entire city. They're pretty well scattered about. After you do a full pass over the city, those are most of the details you can make out at this height. Anything further, any specifics, you want to go for before heading back?
Sam: You want to set me down so I can go talk to people?
Marisha: You want to talk to people?
Sam: Well, or at least eavesdrop. We don't know if they're all vampires or not.
Marisha: Does it look like there's a central part where there's a lot of people gathered?
Matt: Farmlands look likely to be the largest cluster of people. You can see, since it's getting to the end of the day, there are folks finishing up gathering the crops that were available to them or sort of planting as they go through. And you can see there's about five or six people that are all in one group. Most everyone else seems to be relatively solitary and trying to go about their business as fast as possible.
Marisha: The town square's emptying out?
Matt: The town square? Nobody is in the town square. People are avoiding it like the plague. There's eight bodies hanging from the tree, and nobody wants to be there.
Marisha: All right. I'm going to swoop down and find a tree, where the five or six farmers are, and perch, see if Scanlan can get a good--
Matt: There actually are no trees by the farm, all the trees have been cleared out to make the farmland. So there's actually a bit of the forest that's been cleared for that purpose.
Marisha: It's just open and empty.
Matt: Yeah. You can go to a tree that's nearby, but that's like 300 feet away.
Marisha: A rooftop? A wall? Anything I can perch on?
Matt: There is a wall. There is a wall on the outskirts of Whitestone.
Marisha: I perch on the wall.
Matt: Okay. You swoop down and you perch on the edge of the wall there. It's about 25 feet up.
Sam: I'm just going to walk down there. I won't be able to see you, so I'm going to leave a little--
Marisha: I'll keep an-- Oh, wait, I can't see you.
Matt: And you can't talk right now, you're an eagle.
Sam: I leave a little, like a canteen or something, right where she's perched, just so I know where to find her.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Smart.
Taliesin: Leave the mug.
Sam: Yeah, my stein. And then I'm going to walk down and see if I can stealthily eavesdrop on some conversations.
Matt: Okay. You make your way down the 25-foot wall she's perched on.
Sam: Oh, shit. Am I going to fall?
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check to climb.
Taliesin: You say that out loud?
Sam: Athletics?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: 17.
Matt: 17. The stonework here is old and you manage to not lose your footing entirely as you bring your way down. Thankfully, you're light enough, and the stones are not too large, so you can get some good handholds. You do, over the next 12 minutes or so, make your way to the base of the wall.
Sam: It took me 12 minutes to climb 25 feet?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Nice. I suck.
Marisha: Maybe whistle for me when you come back.
Matt: A lot of moments of (gasps) 'whoa, okay'. But, you catch yourself. I mean, you can just jump if you wanted to make it less. But, the duration of your invisibility-- you have about 20 more minutes before it dissipates.
Sam: Oh shit, I have to do this quick.
Matt: You look over the edge, and you can see that they have carts up and that they have what vegetables they have, and a lot of vegetables, even at a close look, a lot of them look withered. It looks like there is a general sense of frustration that the land itself is not producing quality crops. And even the people look unhealthy and gaunt by nature. Whether it be the cold winter recently or just their general spirit is broken, but there is a feeling about these people that life here is not what it used to be. There isn't a whole lot of conversation, there's mutterings here and there. "We have to make sure we get these back in time. Fill the cart, we have two carts we have to get in." And the other one's, "I know, I know, I'm trying," And they're putting it over there and there's a little bit of frustration among them.
Sam: He's doing walla. (all laugh)
Matt: One of them ends up counting the last bit of crop. "That's it, that's all we have. That is the entire pull for the day." And the older gentleman, who is overseeing it, grinds his hands and goes, "Sir Kerrion is going to have my hide."
Sam: Wait, wasn't that one of the people--
Matt: "At the very least, let's gather it together and hopefully Pelor will protect us." And the people take the carts and begin making their way towards the outer gate on the southeast side of Whitestone, where you guys are currently at.
Sam: Okay. I'm going to hustle back to the roof.
Matt: All right. Make an athletics check.
Sam: Jesus.
Marisha: I can come get you.
Taliesin: You'll hear a thump.
Sam: Eight. (all laugh)
Liam: Hopefully he lands on his lute.
Sam: No, it's nine.
Matt: Okay. 15 minutes. After five minutes of eavesdropping you realize that you are not going to make it up that wall, and you feel the magic of your Invisibility illusion about to fade. At this point, by the way, the sun has just hit the edge of the mountains, the sky itself is a vibrant, reddish orange slowly turning to purple and sunset is upon you.
Sam: I want to spend the night here. No.
Marisha: Can I see him?
Matt: He's invisible, no.
Sam: I will sneak around the corner a little bit, wait for an opening, and I lose Invisibility, which will drop it on her as well, and I will Dimension Door back up to the roof.
Matt: Okay. As you pass to the side, the illusion fades, you step into a small opening of dark, purplish energy and then reemerge on the top of the wall--
Matt: Grab the canteen.
Sam: Grab the canteen.
Matt: --and hop back on the back of her.
Sam: Oh, shit. Invisibility again.
Matt: Okay. Okay. You guys vanish, and Keyleth, you take off back in the direction you guys traveled from. In the meantime, guys, what do you want to have been doing? Are you just waiting, are you traveling further in, are you staying where you are?
Travis: (snores)
Taliesin: We have to wait.
Laura: Yeah, keeping an ear out for the wolves and just chilling in a tree.
Travis: (yells) I fall out of the tree.
Laura: And also, I'm restringing my new, awesome bow.
Matt: With the--?
Laura: With the blazing bowstring.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Which, by the way, is a longbow of sky sentinel.
Sam: Sky sentinel, what does that mean?
Laura: Once per long rest, I can use a Storm Arrow, which means that the next arrow I fire splits into three arrows. Roll an attack for each of them, they all get 1d6 extra for each one that hits. It's amazing!
Sam: Every time you use it, or is at a one-time--
Laura: It's one time per long rest.
Marisha: That's awesome!
Matt: Once per day, she fires an arrow and the arrow splits into three, and each one bursts into thunder damage, bursts of them.
Laura: Say what?! So, is it lightning damage or is it--
Matt: Thunder damage. It should say on there.
Laura: It says lightning damage.
Matt: Oh, then it would be lightning damage.
Marisha: It's a taser arrow.
Taliesin: It's basically a taser.
Matt: So yeah, it's pretty fun.
Sam: Thunder!
Laura: Thunder!
Matt: What's that from?
Sam: I don't know.
Matt: So, the night falls and the crickets begin to emerge, the slow mist begins to form.
Laura: Wait, our friends aren't back yet. It's already night and they're not back?
Liam: I just want to say that I pulled my hood down, and put on my calamari hat, and pulled the hood back over it.
Matt: Okay. So you take the partially rusted over, but functional, metallic skull cap that Clarota was wearing when you guys met in the Underdark, that Clarota no longer needs.
Travis: Because he's dead.
Matt: You place it on your head and it's a little loose. As you place it on, it rattles for a moment, and then it form-fits to your skull. Your hair being pinched beneath it and just emerging from underneath, almost Loki-helmet-style.
Laura: Looking snazzy, Vax.
Travis: Nice bonnet.
Sam: (imitating Clarota) I'm on your head.
Matt: There's a weird buzzing vibrational feel as its magic attunes to you over the next hour or so as you're waiting, but you get the sensation that it will offer some decent protection from impeding charm effects.
Liam: It tingles.
Laura: It looks like you have a mullet.
Liam: Yeah, dude.
Matt: A Loki mullet. You start to get really nervous about the arrival of your friends, until eventually you hear the flapping of wings. You look up and you can see, since it has taken an hour to get there, the illusion just fades, both a giant eagle and Scanlan appear in the moonlight, right above the canopy of the forest you guys are close to, and return to the place you were.
Laura: Keyleth, question. Can you make it look like we're not here with your foliage shit?
Marisha: I drop my Beast Shape, holding onto a branch.
Laura: You know, the illusions.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Good, good.
Laura: Can we camp up in the tree? So nobody can come towards us.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: What if we fall out?
Marisha: I Druidcraft some spiderweb hammocks.
Laura: Ooh.
Taliesin: Sticky.
Marisha: And, as usual, light some sage.
Matt: Takes about an hour or so, but you manage to pull from the surroundings these really nice, thick spider silk hammocks, that should be able to support your respective weights. Grog is the only one that might be questionable with the sheer amount of weight that is his form.
Travis: I like it.
Marisha: Maybe take a rope and tie it.
Travis: Nope, this is a trust exercise.
Laura: I'm using Hide in Plain Sight to make me and Trinket extra, extra hidey.
Liam: I have a question. The only reason I have this question is because I posted that video from a couple of years ago. Do I still have the unending rope?
Laura: I have the unending rope, motherfucker.
Liam: Why don't we reinforce with the rope?
Laura: Sure, why not.
Travis: You don't like the trust exercise?
Laura: That's where all the rope comes from that we ever use.
Liam: I'm sorry I brought it up. I'd love you to fall on your head.
Laura: Let's reinforce the spiderwebs.
Travis: No, I'm good, thank you.
Marisha: Whoa, Vax. Nice helmet. Don Quixote called.
Liam: Aerodynamic, isn't it?
Marisha: He wants his bowl back.
Sam: Before we slumber, we did a little intel, a little recon.
Laura: Oh, yeah. What's up?
Sam: Turns out the town is full of humans, except for these six vampire giants-- zombie giants.
Marisha: They all appear to be fairly miserable people.
Sam: However, this could be useful. Everyone in the town, the farmers anyway, seem to be gathering produce to deliver to the Briarwoods. We could pose as some sort of farmer troupe with a basket of goodies, and maybe get through the front gate.
Laura: Don't you think they would know all the farmers around at this point? They've been there for a long time.
Marisha: They did reference Sir Kerrion by name. Oh, they referenced Sir Kerrion, Percy.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Sam: We could make ourselves look like some of them. One of us has a hat of disguise.
Marisha: Also, there was something other really important.
Sam: What?
Marisha: The town was pretty much empty.
Sam: Oh, yes, this.
Marisha: And that Sun Tree, that what's-his-name-- Who said that? Jarett?
Matt: Desmond.
Marisha: Desmond. Looks like there were some executions that took place. There were about eight bodies hanging from that tree.
Laura: Why is it called the Sun Tree?
Sam: It's really lovely. I don't know, maybe it gets sun.
Marisha: I don't know. Why do they call it the Sun Tree?
Taliesin: Can I go with this? Unless you have a particular reason to--
Matt: I mean, you can go with-- There are maybe many reasons it's called the Sun Tree.
Laura: There's reasons. Maybe we need to battle them at the Sun Tree.
Taliesin: Legends say that before the castle was built, that the journey into the valley was treacherous and stormy, and the original builders of Whitecastle feared they would die. And this one, great tree stood in the valley, and it was underneath it that they took shelter. And as they began to take shelter, the storm broke. And the storm did not return until the castle was completed.
Sam: That's a lovely story.
Taliesin: We hold our festivals there every year.
Sam: And now it's being used as a--
Taliesin: As a gallow, yes.
Laura: Does it get a lot of sun?
Matt: You do know, and this ties into your story as well, because the guidance in forging the city of Whitestone, that tree was representative to them as a guardian of Pelor, the god of the sun. The protector of light, holiness--
Sam: Who that?
Taliesin: A very serious god.
Travis: That could help.
Laura: That could help us, because vampires hate the sun.
Sam: Why would they make camp in the place where the god of the sun--
Laura: Maybe that's why they're hanging bodies from it, to taint it.
Liam: Maybe that's why it's protected. Maybe--
Sam: Are any of us religious with that god, or--?
Marisha: Can we call Pike through your magic poo?
Laura: Would she be able to hear us?
Taliesin: Tablet of Apple?
Sam: I can at least see what she is up to.
Liam: Keyleth, would you be able to revive the tree?
Laura: (gasps) Bring it back.
Sam: What would that do?
Marisha: Yeah, I can, actually.
Laura: I don't know. Bring up the god of the sun again, I don't know.
Sam: We're not religious people. We can't summon the gods willy-nilly.
Liam: We can please Pelor.
Laura: Don't tell us what we can and can't do, Scanlan.
Sam: I'm sorry. We can do all of those things. Yes, let's go in the middle of the vampire-infested town and do some arbory to try to heal the tree, and then we'll just say, oh, sun god, please rain down sun here.
Laura: I like it. Let's do it.
Sam: That's a great plan.
Travis: Can we at least try cutting down the bodies and running, and seeing what happens?
Sam: We could.
Taliesin: I say, in the morning we take a look at the passage, see how well-guarded it is. And if it looks dangerous, sneak our way into the town. If people are not enthralled, if they are being forced to work, then maybe we can find some allies.
Marisha: Find allies in the town?
Taliesin: I don't think they're happy.
Laura: I think they're terrified. And I don't want to let them know we're here, for fear they'll turn us in, in hopes of saving their own necks.
Marisha: That's what I'm thinking. Yes, they're terrified, but this whole town's being ruled by fear.
Liam: I have a feeling we can revive that tree somehow. It may weaken the Briarwoods' hold on the psyche of the villagers here.
Laura: This is true! It could help out. Let them know the god of the sun is on their side.
Travis: I heard you're supposed to pee on a lemon tree, so.
Laura: Probably you and Scanlan are on that, I have a feeling.
Travis: Can I make a nature check to see if that's true?
Taliesin: I really wanted to ask. What does peeing on a lemon tree have to do with anything?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: 19! That's 17.
Matt: In your experience with the roving band of barbarians, you guys enjoyed very much peeing on very colorful trees, of all sorts of plant life. All of them, generally, didn't seem to, over time, react well to the process, whether it be the fact that you all drank a lot of the time, so the content of your urine was probably not very hospitable.
Liam: It's known as a lemon party. (all laugh)
Matt: That's a whole different kind of festival.
Marisha: You killed Percy.
Laura: You killed Percy.
Taliesin: Thank you for bringing the text chat all the way back around.
Travis: Operation tree rescue.
Matt: The lemon party is held on the far, far southern continent of Tubgirl, the region of Goatse.
Travis: I have an idea. Should we wait until the sun comes up, create a distraction, so all the undead giants come looking, and then we have someone go cut the bodies off the tree, and--
Laura: And bring it back to life!
Travis: -- let Keyleth give it a little love.
Marisha: And then what happens after that?
Travis: I don't know. It's an experiment, all right?
Laura: Then we get the fuck out.
Sam: Won't they know we're here? Won't the people see us doing things?
Marisha: I know. I feel that's the equivalent of putting dish soap in the fountain on prom night.
Laura: No! Didn't you say that all around the Sun Tree nobody's there?
Marisha: Yeah, we did that. What?
Laura: Didn't you say nobody's around the Sun Tree?
Sam: That's true. But we still have to get in.
Laura: We'll fly up and over. You just did the same thing.
Sam: I know, I know.
Laura: Fly up and over, land, bring the tree back to life, get out.
Sam: Are you sure you don't want me to be a carriage driver, and you'll hide in the hay of my carriage and I'll go straight up to the Briarwoods.
Laura: I feel like they know all the townspeople.
Sam: I will put on my hat of disguise, I will be someone completely different.
Travis: They can see through that.
Liam: I'm telling you, they looked right through me.
Laura: When he was invisible!
Liam: Invisible. They saw me.
Laura: They probably saw you!
Sam: So while he was transparent, they saw through him?
Liam: No, but I was heavily stealthed.
Laura: No, you were invisible.
Marisha: Oh, wow!
Matt: No, the invisibility faded when he attacked the guard.
Liam: When I beaned the guard. They should not have been able to see me.
Sam: I'm not talking about getting past the Briarwoods. I'm talking about getting past the guards that guard their castle.
Marisha: Here's another issue. It's going to take me a minute to do the tree.
Laura: How long?
Marisha: It might take a bit.
Laura: How long's a bit?
Marisha: Well, I mean, it's one of those things where the longer I do it the better it'll be. I can do it for up to eight hours.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Marisha: If I do it for up to eight hours, I enrich the land over half a mile radius, centered on a single point, and the land becomes enriched for a solid year.
Laura: I don't want to enrich all of the--
Liam: Question. What time was it when they were doing their little scouting thing they've just told us about? The sun was going down?
Matt: Yeah, they probably would've gotten to Whitestone around seven o'clock, and leaving right as the sun had fully set.
Laura: If we go right when the sun goes up--
Liam: Yes, we get there at sunrise, take those fucking beasts out, and you start at eight AM.
Sam: But then what?
Laura: We just sneak in. Here's the thing. I don't know if you want to get all the crops all fancy, because it'll just feed the Briarwoods. Maybe just do the tree area, which will be like two hours, maybe.
Marisha: Yeah? I think if I have a solid hour or two hours with it.
Sam: Once the tree is healed, we have no one of religious power to summon any god. We don't know anything about this god, none of us do!
Taliesin: I do, in theory, if I'm from--
Matt: Go ahead and roll a religion check.
Taliesin: A which?
Matt: A religion check.
Laura: A witch?
Matt: A witch.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16? Okay. Pelor is the god of the sun and agriculture. It's a good deity and is generally worshipped by farmers and simple folk and people that live off the land, and generally it's the most nature-based deity of the main spectrum, outside of Melora, which is the deity of nature.
Marisha: Oh. Well, dope! Would I know stuff like that too, then?
Matt: You know of Pelor, yeah. There are elements of Pelor's following that bleeds into your druidic nature, though you don't necessarily follow a deity.
Marisha: Right. We're free.
Matt: You believe that the essence of nature in itself is your patron.
Marisha: Totally.
Matt: You are not a religious man by nature, and you know that there is a strong following of Pelor in the town. The entire graveyard that you talked about earlier, that one is largely built around the imagery of Pelor. And of all the gods that are worshipped here, Pelor's probably 75% of the population of Whitestone where, in some shape or form, if not devout worshippers, at least were like, yeah, Pelor's cool.
Marisha: Here's my question. I feel Pike's energy tonight. Maybe, while I'm meditating, I can somehow reach out to her, and maybe ask her to get in touch with Sarenrae, and maybe Sarenrae can call up her homeboy Pelor.
Laura: Do you think that works?
Marisha: I don't know.
Travis: This is like phone a friend?
Marisha: We're not organized religion people, we Ashari.
Liam: The tree is called the Sun Tree. It's Pelor's tree. I'm not a cleric of Sarenrae, but these shitbags could not have set up camp in a temple of Sarenrae because there is too much goodness there, as there was around this tree in this town, and it's why it is dead. It's why it's being surrounded by a bunch of giant undead things, as you described. You need faith, Scanlan Shorthalt.
Sam: Me? I am the antithesis of faith.
Liam: Then you need to shut up and let us fix that tree.
Sam: And then what?
Travis: Who knows?
Sam: We're going to fight off a million monsters to heal a tree, and then we're going to say, "Okay. Bring out the sun," or something.
Marisha: Hang on! What did you just say?
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: That thing you just said that no one heard because we were all shouting and arguing? Rally the townsfolk?
Taliesin: Rally the townsfolk. This is something I think-- I don't think that sneaking in is necessarily the answer. I'm not saying go in, guns blazing, but I say we let them know--
Marisha: You want to build a militia?
Taliesin: I want to build a rebellion.
Laura: I like it. They would recognize you, wouldn't they, Percy?
Taliesin: I have a plan.
Travis: You have a plan?
Sam: Does it involve healing the tree?
Taliesin: It does.
Liam: I don't think there is any sneaking in, thanks to those birds, so we make a stand out here.
Travis: Tell us your plan.
Taliesin: My plan is, we do our best to sneak in, we find cover. Obviously, you said there's abandoned buildings. We find cover. We heal the tree. I have some other ideas. We take those zombie giants out one by one, quietly.
Sam: We're going to be insurgents?
Travis: Shh! Let him finish the plan!
Sam: I kind of love this.
Taliesin: Okay.
Marisha: It's like Attack on Titan. That's cool!
Taliesin: Let's start finding our friends, and we start making friends. We let them know we're back.
Laura: I like it.
Marisha: I like having the people. It feels less like we're the United States.
Travis: Okay, where do we start?
Taliesin: I have some parchment. I have the thing I want to build, while I'm in the tree. It's very simple, and I want to show you what it is.
Matt: What is it?
Taliesin: I want to take some gunpowder and basically--
Sam: Make a pipe bomb.
Taliesin: Basically attach it to a piece of parchment. I want to wet it into a piece of parchment and let it dry so that when I set fire to that piece of parchment, I get a burn scar. I'd like to create a burn scar.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: Yeah, that's totally doable.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a tinkering check, just for the sake of a possible epic failure.
Marisha: A burn on yourself?
Taliesin: No, it'll scar anything. It just creates a very high heat.
Sam: Like a mark?
Marisha: Like a brand.
Sam: Like our mark.
Taliesin: Like a mark.
Sam: Like our mark.
Taliesin: Not our mark.
Sam: The resistance.
Taliesin: The resistance.
Sam: I need a beret. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I rolled a 23.
Matt: While the rest of you end up taking your evening's rest, Grog, you immediately snap your hammock and fall 15 feet to the ground.
Travis: (pained groan)
Matt: But you manage to make your way up there and just bear hug the tree trunk for rest. You're used to sleeping in uncomfortable situations.
Liam: I throw five or six pine cones at his head.
Matt: Over time, or at once?
Liam: At once.
Travis: Fucking gravity.
Matt: You manage to complete three pieces of parchment, roughly page-sized, with your black powder treatment, successfully. The mist rolls in and gets thicker and thicker, to the point where you cannot see the floor of the forest. The little bit of moonlight that manages to make its way through the boughs of the trees trickles through and then vanishes into these slowly-shifting bits of fog. Your breath, every time you exhale, is visible, as the cold night air begins to take. You find yourselves instinctively shivering, as you cannot grow close to each other for heat, nor build a fire. The night, while uncomfortable, you do manage to get an evening's bit of mostly uncomfortable rest, but rest nonetheless. Eventually coming to as the morning sun comes up and heats it up, the fog begins to fade away and burn away. You're at about an hour past sunrise as you all unrestfully come to consciousness as the temperature shift hits. You manage to relieve yourselves of your spider silk-based hammocks and/or tree grasping. Both you and Trinket have found this way of clutching onto the tree. Trinket's used to the wild.
Travis: This is, like, sunup, right?
Matt: It's about seven, 7 30 in the morning.
Sam: Can I do a quick scry back to the poo jar that I left back in our kitchen?
Matt: Certainly.
Sam: Just to make sure that our home base is okay.
Matt: You take a moment and concentrate on the kitchen. At this point in time, you can see early morning. Laina is currently in there, yawning, and is cleaning about and starting to make a small breakfast for all the guards. You can hear in the distance, some conversation in the distant room. It appears to be a couple of your various employed mercenaries having a conversation as she's making breakfast.
Sam: So they're fine.
Matt: They seem fine.
Sam: So I knock that one off, and I'll try for Pike.
Matt: Okay. Concentrating on Pike-- about two minutes of hard concentration. There's no connection.
Sam: They wiped my poo away.
Matt: You gather, due to the relatively fresh and unstable nature of this potion you had concocted, you can only have one source connection up at a time, so when you left it in your keep, it seems that the one you had at the temple of Sarenrae was alleviated of its magical presence. What was once a magical scry poo is literally just Scan-scat at the temple.
Sam: Which some could argue is magical in its own right.
Matt: Sure enough. With a high enough persuasion roll.
Laura: Teacher. Teacher.
Taliesin: Does it change color when it loses its power?
Matt: You don't know.
Taliesin: Damn it! I want to know.
Sam: Only one way to find out.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: Ask Pike when you see her again. (laughs)
Taliesin: Your poo power may come in very handy. This is good to know.
Travis: Let's go find an abandoned building and set up.
Liam: Could we throw in a Scanlan grenade and be able to see through it?
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: A scat grenade.
Liam: A scat grenade.
Sam: Sure.
Liam: Scatlan.
Marisha: Scatlan!
Taliesin: Scatlan!
Sam: I could get in, shit in their bedroom, and leave.
Liam: You shit in your hand, and you toss it.
Sam: Oh, yeah. That, too! Pull the pin. (all laugh)
Laura: Yeah. Remember that. That's awesome.
Travis: This is what happens.
Laura: You could fly overhead with Keyleth.
Sam: Yes?
Laura: Drop it like a bomb!
Sam: And then we'd have eyes in there.
Laura: I like it.
Sam: I like this a lot. Give me something to eat.
Marisha: What?
Sam: I need some fuel.
Travis: Holy crap.
Laura: I have a sweet potato right here, Scanlan.
Sam: Sweet potato? That's good, yes. Some prunes?
Marisha: Yeah, something hearty.
Liam: All right. We're off the rails.
Travis: Step one of this.
Matt: So, you make your way down into the forest. About another hour and a half of travel before you start getting to where the trees begin to clear up a little bit, and you can see the base of the cleared-off mountain that Whitestone Castle is built upon, and the pathway that descends into the outer wall of the city of Whitestone.
Laura: How far of a travel is it down into the city?
Matt: It's maybe a quarter mile.
Laura: So we can do that a little amount of time.
Matt: Space-relation-wise, you guys are just getting to this side of the forest right there. Right there, and this is the mountain.
Laura: So if we're going to try stealth this shit in--
Travis: Do we take the stealthy one or the invisible one?
Sam: Wait.
Marisha: Wait. Wait. Which plan are we doing first?
Travis: First part is getting an abandoned building.
Laura: So that we can be near the tree to protect you.
Sam: So that we can be townspeople.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Right?
Taliesin: So you can get a beret.
Travis: Abandoned building, part one.
Sam: We're setting up shop.
Laura: Get into the town.
Travis: So who goes and finds the abandoned building?
Sam: Percy is known here.
Taliesin: Which is why I'm going to be wearing-- I haven't been seen in years, and when I was seen, I was much younger, and honestly--
Marisha: Yes, but the Briarwoods knew who you were.
Taliesin: I had different hair. Yes, they do.
Marisha: The Briarwoods recognized you instantly.
Taliesin: They did, which was disorienting.
Sam: But they're not on sentry duty.
Travis: We need a forward operating base, so who wants to be stealthy or invisible and find an empty building?
Liam: Question  for the Assassin path of rogue, at 9th level, if I have seven days, which is way too much time, I can impersonate anyone I want. In half a day, could I just be a dirty nobody?
Matt: Yeah. You'd be able to disguise yourself.
Sam: We also have the hat.
Matt: The disguise kit?
Sam: His hat of disguise. Percy knows this town. Perhaps Percy should wear the hat.
Travis: Does it require attunement?
Sam: Just a few minutes, I think.
Taliesin: I already have the hat.
Sam: Yes, you had it from the dinner party.
Taliesin: I've been trying to think of what sorts of buildings would be the most defensible and the least likely to arouse suspicion. Things with basements?
Matt: A lot of the houses have basements. There are varying degrees of it. There are larger homesteads that were reserved for the actual nobles that ran the day-to-day life of Whitestone when your family was in power. As you heard from Desmond, probably the places where the new nobles live. Those are the ones that have the gates surrounding them: the larger homesteads scattered throughout the town.
Taliesin: That's too obvious.
Matt: It's far too obvious. There are many small abodes and even some farm-based hovels. The poor end of town is the farming side, which is the southwest, which is the closest area to where you guys made your stop earlier.
Taliesin: I would almost say a shopping district. If there's an abandoned storefront.
Matt: The shopping district is the center of town around the town square.
Laura: Around the Sun Tree?
Matt: Yeah. Right there.
Taliesin: Might be too close.
Sam: Before we go marching in there, finding an abode to live in is not going to be too difficult. We'll need food.
Laura: Are we living in there?!
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: We're not going to be there for long.
Travis: We have dried food rations.
Taliesin: We have food rations. We have options.
Laura: We've got food for days.
Sam: We might be there for days and days.
Laura: We've got food for days.
Travis: We've got dried food rations.
Sam: We also have to go around town and, forgive me if I'm going too far with your plan here, but aren't we trying to win allies among the people?
Taliesin: I have a plan.
Sam: But we'll need to communicate with them. How?
Laura: He has a plan.
Travis: He has a plan.
Sam: (sighs) All right.
Travis: Come on. Drop your pants and get with the plan.
Marisha: What time is it? Have we gone to sleep, or are we waking up?
Matt: You guys are awake. After this discussion, I'd say it's about 8:00 in the morning. 8:30.
Taliesin: Let's make our way in.
Liam: This is the time.
Laura: We should stealth in.
Marisha: Are we doing the tree thing right now?
Matt: Actually, your travel to the city and you're on the outskirts of it now. It would be closer to 9:30.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Yeah. We try to get in.
Taliesin: We find a place to at least set up our operation.
Marisha: Well, that's what I was going to say. Do we want to find operations, try and recoup--
Liam: We don't really know what we're going to find this morning. Those big guys could still be there; we don't know.
Taliesin: We don't.
Liam: We don't know if there are people in the pocket of the Briarwoods here.
Travis: It's like 12% of a plan.
Marisha: If we take a day to get in and get settled, I can do a Heroes' Feast and then I start crack of dawn in the morning?
Liam: I think that's a good idea.
Taliesin: Let's get in and set up.
Liam: Hole up. Let's find a place.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: Wait, we're just going to walk into the city?
Taliesin: No, we're going to stealth into the city.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: We're going to cast Pass Without a Trace on everybody.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Beard check?
Travis: That was an eight.
Matt: Stealth?
Travis: Beard check.
Matt: Oh. (laughs) Your beard is pretty much at the fullest it'll ever be. You gather you can probably get a little more thickness to it, but your beard is at maximum, Grog. The fact that you even have a goliath with a beard is a feat of magic in its own right.
Travis: Amazing.
Liam: You would be a freak.
Travis: Is it like that Vidal Sassoon commercial? Whip it.
Marisha: That's dope.
Taliesin: Isn't that dope?
Sam: Grog, I've heard that no one in this town wears a beard.
Laura: Oh, natural 20 on stealth!
Travis: You can forget it. I won't go in.
Matt: So you guys are traveling as a group. I need stealth checks from everybody.
Taliesin: Do we have Pass Without a Trace?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Can we each take a little bit of time to look more like commoners?
Taliesin: I'm wearing my hat, too.
Travis: Look like commoners?
Sam: I rub dirt all over my face.
Travis: Shit, I'm a goliath.
Laura: Plus, we have a bear.
Sam: You should try to look less handsome.
Marisha: Yeah, we do look like quite the motley crew.
Liam: I'm wearing a natural 20.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Did you roll a natural 20, as well?
Liam: I did.
Matt: Both of you guys rolled natural 20s in stealth?
Liam: Had a little help with Luck, but I got it.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: That's really good, because I rolled a one.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: We've got Pass Without a Trace, so 28.
Taliesin: 11.
Marisha: Still a failure.
Travis: Are we all going together? Are we not sending one person in to go find an empty building?
Sam: We're all going together.
Matt: You guys are all going together. You dirty yourselves up a bit. You're still a large goliath. You're still a few half-elves, a gnome.
Laura: There's still a bear.
Matt: Outside of illusion magic, you're still going to stick out like a sore thumb.
Laura: Could we cast illusion magic? Do we have it?
Sam: What's illusion magic?
Liam: I'm walking 50 feet in front of everybody else.
Laura: Seeming! To make Grog and Trinket look like commoners.
Liam: I'm 50 feet in front of everyone else.
Laura: Yeah, do that!
Marisha: Oh, yeah! Seeming us?
Sam: Sure. All right. I will cast Seeming on us.
Matt: This is a legit use of Seeming, too. Okay.
Sam: We'll all look like dirty--
Marisha: As opposed to the cows? Come on.
Sam: -- dirty, ragged peasants.
Matt: Trinket, as well?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Trinket looks like a donkey.
Laura: No, he'll just be a really drunk peasant.
Marisha: A donkey. A mule.
Sam: Can I just say this? Can we just leave Trinket behind--
Laura: No!
Sam: I don't want to walk in there with a bear!
Laura: He'll look like a fucking donkey, or he'll look like another commoner.
Sam: I think I can only make us all look the same.
Laura: Then he'll look like a fucking commoner.
Matt: Of similar size. I believe, as far as Seeming is concerned-- If not, then I'll allow it for the purposes of this.
Laura: He'll look like a commoner--
Marisha: A Clydesdale!
Laura: -- a weird commoner.
Travis: Leave the bear.
Taliesin: A milk cow!
Laura: I'm not leaving a fucking bear on the outside of town where there's hounds around, and there's fucking vampires and birds flying around, fuck you!
Sam: Oh, wait, no! You can give each target a new appearance.
Matt: Yep!
Sam: So I can make everyone look a little different.
Matt: Each creature can seem a foot shorter or taller, or appear thin, fat, or in between.
Marisha: Make him look like a milk cow.
Matt: You can't change their body type. So, Trinket will still be a four-legged creature, but you can make him look like a different four-legged creature.
Laura: There you go!
Sam: Okay. He's a milk cow.
Liam: Real talk, real talk, Scanlan. My sister will cut you.
Travis: Or do you want him to be a donkey, something we can move. Milk cows are slow.
Liam: Bring the bear.
Taliesin: Donkeys can move more quickly. This is true.
Sam: All right. Donkey.
Laura: All right.
Sam: He's an ass.
Matt: All right, so Trinket takes on the form of a donkey.
Laura: (laughs) So are you darling, so are you.
Travis: Just like her owner.
Matt: The rest of you are a smattering of various humanoids, you--
Laura: (fake coughing)
Sam: I make myself look like a weird hunchback, sort of, not all there.
Matt: Okay, so you guys look like pretty rough peasants, dirty faces. You know, hair a little razzled. It looks like you've been living the harsh life on the outskirts of the slums of Whitestone for quite some time--
Travis: I wanted to be a model.
Matt: -- with a donkey.
Taliesin: (goat bleat)
Matt: So. You guys, utilizing your stealth checks and the Seeming, you make your way up to the-- which side of Whitestone are you coming in from?
Taliesin: Thank you for the double 20.
Matt: Percy?
Laura: Where are we coming up?
Taliesin: Coming in from the west.
Matt: Okay, so you come into this entrance here. You make your way into the center of town, blending in best you can. There are a few folks who see you enter, just give you a strange look. You all are unfamiliar to the denizens of Whitestone--
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: -- but you don't look like a threat, per se. So you are noticed, and some people seem to just stop and watch you pass, but no one seems to make any active mention, note, or change in behavior towards it.
Travis: Are we checking buildings while we're walking through?
Laura: I have passive perception of 21; I'm always looking.
Liam: I walk over to just one random person on the street and say, anyone hiring hands? On farms?
Laura: Our farm burned down!
Matt: (laughs) Make a deception roll. I'll give you advantage on it because the Seeming does give you the visual perspective of being close to their type.
Liam: That is a four-- No, hold on--
Laura: No, no, no.
Liam: I'm gonna use Luck, that's the Luck.
Travis: Was the first number gonna be a 40?
Liam: No, it's not 40. So it's 14.
Matt: Okay. That's two Luck rolls, by the way, that you've spent.
Liam: Yeah, I know.
Matt: The woman you approach who's probably in her early 30s, pale blonde hair, looks like she actually might be losing it in some places, gives you a look and goes, "You poor people shouldn't be here."
Liam: We just need some work.
Matt: "You'll find it, but you're not going anywhere else. Welcome to Whitestone." She turns around and walks back, joining arms with apparently a man that she's paired with, and the two of them just walk away, a bit dumbfounded that people walked into Whitestone. As this happens, you glance over your shoulder and you see coming from the northern edge from this side wall-- (sounds of booming footsteps)
Laura: Oh, we should avoid that shit!
Matt: A very tall, noticeably undead giant with its jaw broken off and hanging from the hinge, dried, caked blood across its chest, it's just dragging this large club behind it.
Liam: Where are we? What are our surroundings right now?
Matt: You right now, you're in a T. To the right and left are roads that go along the inside of the wall that surrounds Whitestone, to the front of you is the path that leads further into the city.
Laura: Let's go into the city!
Travis: We casually begin--
Taliesin: I wanna head through the city, possibly in the direction of the cemetery.
Matt: Cemetery's over here.
Taliesin: Yeah, I wanna head in that direction.
Matt: All right. So you guys make your way through--
Laura: Keeping an eye out for, you know, buildings that look clustered and abandoned that we can hide in.
Taliesin: What's changed?
Matt: What you've noticed has changed is, one largely, the population is far more sparse than you recall. What was once a bustling city, you're now seeing about half as many people as you would would see this time of day. Going through, everyone seems to be in relatively poor health. There are a few buildings that look long-term abandoned, immediately in this area here, in the outskirts, catches your guys' eye. You do notice that the corner lamps that you had set up at the different corners of the streets appear to be shattered.
Travis: Interesting.
Matt: There would be like, you know, glass oil lanterns that at night someone would go around and light them after the sunset. The posts that hold them now are all either broken, or the glass itself has been shattered.
Marisha: They want it to be really dark.
Taliesin: They want it to be really dark. I'm also thinking about that cemetery.
Sam: We're not gonna live in a cemetery, that's super creepy.
Marisha: As opposed to all of the other things we've done?
Taliesin: Everything here is super creepy.
Laura: Is there any other abandoned buildings around?
Marisha: As opposed to sleeping in the Underdark?
Matt: There are plenty of buildings that look dark and mostly untouched in this section here, as you begin to move closer and closer inward.
Taliesin: Let's get east of the center square and set up camp.
Laura: Okay. Where's the castle? Is it on the top of the--
Travis: It's north.
Laura: Oh, it's that thingy? Okay.
Sam: We're trying to shoot for here?
Matt: Okay. You guys move this way, as you push towards the center of this here. You--
Sam: You speak Giant, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: You move past the center here and to the left of you, you can see the town square and there it is, the Sun Tree. Very, very large, you imagine beautiful tree at one time, full height was probably about 40 feet tall. The branches twist out, and almost look like they're hanging loosely, the ends, everything looks droopy and desolate; there's not a leaf on it.
Marisha: Can I do some sort of a check from a distance to see if I can recognize what kind of tree it is?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Marisha: 18.
Matt: Okay. It's hard to tell from this distance, there are a number of types of trees it could be. It's not indigenous to this land. The fact that it grew here means that either it was transplanted, or it was some sort of--
Marisha: Magical grower.
Laura: (sings) Divine Intervention!
Matt: -- magical creation for its presence.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: And you do see the silhouette of the eight figures slowly swaying from beneath the branches.
Travis: We continue on. Don't pay too much attention to it. Find a place to post up.
Marisha: Right. Don't get emotional.
Laura: If you, if you do your nature-y spell from inside a building, does it still do the same thing or do you have to be next to the tree while you're doing it?
Travis: That's a large radius, right?
Marisha: So the way the spell works, I can do it one of two ways. I can do it instantaneously, essentially grow up a whole bunch of plants and brush and shrubbery around me, or I can wait and I can concentrate for a while and instill a plant with vibrant--
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: -- life energy and heal the farmlands and it would stretch out for a really far radius.
Laura: Let's keep moving.
Marisha: I'm gonna probably wanna do more the second one.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Do it from inside a house.
Matt: Did you guys want keep moving down this path, to go through the square, closer to the tree, do you want to go southward?
Marisha: I don't know, it's a central point.
Laura: We avoid the tree a little bit and just keep going straight.
Matt: Okay, so you're going this way.
Laura: Yeah?
Liam: There's a larger building, isn't there? I can't see--
Taliesin: Actually, I would say let's get a good look at the tree, let's walk by it.
Sam: Oh, we're gonna walk by the tree?
Marisha: Look like it's no big deal.
Travis: I know.
Matt: You guys turn left, and you make your way towards the town square. And as you enter the square, looking around, you can see there are what would have been carts and small booths set up for selling of meats and other goods, what was a small, you know, barter-and-sale based hub of this town-- nowhere near on the scale of Emon's bazaar, but you know, enough to support this town-- desolate. All look to be closed down and untouched for quite some time. As you get a closer look to the-- actually I'm gonna have you guys all roll perception checks. You're not getting too close to the tree.
Travis: Five.
Sam: Nine.
Liam: 26.
Laura: 19. No, that's a-- yeah, 19.
Marisha: 14.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: As you guys are keeping on the outskirts of the square, it's hard to make out the details, and the weathering has muddled the figures that are hanging there. Percy and Vax, you guys notice the figure on the far left--
Liam: The body.
Matt: The body on the far left has red paint smattered across its face and its arms. It's wearing a dirtied, green, vest-like robe that dangles below it as it hangs there, loosely. Immediately to the left of it you see what looks to be the body of a child. The child is dressed up in a purplish, billowing shirt, very fine silk shirt and pantaloons, and is dangling there next to it. To the left of that you see what appears to be a female, adorned in greens and browns, looks like red paint has been driven through the hair, and dangles to the left of that figure. Next to that, you see what appears to be--
Taliesin: I am walking the fuck away.
Matt: -- you see what appears to be another woman, dressed in dark blacks and browns, leathers, some furs across the top, dark hair, dangling. To the left of that you see another man dressed similarly, dark greys and blacks, long dark hair, dangling. To the left of that you see a rather large man, older, rotund, probably in his forties, clothing padded but mostly open chest, hair completely shaven bald, it looks like there are dark scars placed across the face, hanging. To the left of that you see, this figure is actually not humanoid, you see what appears to have been--
Marisha: Oh my god.
Matt: -- a recently hunted bear, who is dangling.
Marisha: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Sam: Wait, what? Is that us?
Marisha: It looks like us.
Travis: What?
Marisha: It's us!
Sam: They killed people they thought were us, or they killed--
Liam: Or it's a message.
Sam: Or it's a message to us.
Marisha: Do they look like us or were they just dressed like us? Are they made to look like us?
Matt: Do you want to get closer and look?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm a little curious--
Travis: Do you want to get closer and look? Are you sure--
Taliesin: Is there anything around the tree other than us?
Travis: They're probably watching the tree.
Taliesin: Is there something at the base of the tree, is there anything?
Matt: From what you can see now, nothing but just rocks and stones and piles of loose cloth rotting below it. Approaching, it looks like each one of these bodies has been dressed up. It looks like the color in the redhead's hair has been smeared through with paint. It looks like the person who has been painted red has been slapdash. You gather with a moment of looking at it that these were not individuals that were caught this way. This was set up as a message.
Laura: (whispers) My god.
Sam: Oh shit.
Laura: Keep walking, keep your head down and keep walking.
Marisha: Oh, my god.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Marisha: Oh, my god.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Sam: You mean in town? Of course they are!
Travis: No, remember they have to, like, be where the soil they came from is?
Laura: No, they have, like hideouts, they don't have to be where the soil they came from is.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Sam: Holy shit.
Liam: They're in their keep, buried deep.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: You guys continue past, down this pathway. There's other buildings you see in the vicinity that, you know, look abandoned or for the most part unoccupied. I'd say about one in every three buildings looks like it's in disuse.
Liam: Did we see this big building right here as we walked by? Yeah, that big one.
Matt: You guys came-- made this path-- you can see a little bit, you can see is a--
Taliesin: I should know what it is, anyway.
Matt: -- iron fence, it used to belong to one of the noble families of Whitestone. Each one of these large buildings here, these three, and you remember this, were the three families that ran the town.
Taliesin: We can't go anywhere near those buildings. We have to stay as far away as humanly possible.
Marisha: Question. You said there were eight bodies?
Matt: Eight bodies.
Marisha: Is there one that looks like a gnome cleric and one that looks like a dragonborn sorcerer?
Laura: That was the first one.
Matt: The one's painted all red--
Travis: The one's painted all red--
Laura: There wasn't a gnome cleric one there.
Matt: No. There was a bear.
Liam: There was no cleric when we faced them before. All of us who stood against them in Emon.
Travis: We're all there.
Sam: Body of my guy. Is he sort of handsome?
Marisha: But, it does mean that it was because of when they saw us in Emon--
Matt: Think of an eight-year-old child.
Laura: It was a kid, yo.
Sam: Oh, it was a child? Oh, god.
Marisha: -- because Tiberius wasn't here with the crows.
Travis: No, it was because of Emon.
Marisha: It was because of Emon.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: So, can we get like a vague idea of how long these people look like they might have been here?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: (whispers) Fuck, I'm not good at this shit.
Taliesin: Can I help?
Matt: Sure. It would be advantage on that check for you.
Marisha: Oh, that, you know, that wasn't bad. Woo!
Taliesin: Oh! Never mind.
Marisha: I'll take that 19, 21?
Matt: 21? You gather these bodies have probably been here for the better part of a week, week and a half? There is some mild decomposition starting to settle in, there is a bit of bloating to some of them. Couldn't have been much longer than that.
Sam: A week? That's before we set out.
Marisha: Why would they put a warning for us here in the city?
Sam: They assumed we would come, but they don't know that we're here.
Taliesin: They invited us.
Liam: Those birds might have told them we were here.
Sam: This was a week ago, this was before we were even close.
Travis: Let's stick with the plan.
Taliesin: Sticking with the plan.
Sam: Let's go find a building.
Taliesin: Going to go find something that's a decent distance away from the three noble households, that has a reasonable view of the tree.
Travis: Yeah, 150 feet from the tree.
Matt: That would probably be somewhere in this vicinity here, as the three main houses are right there.
Taliesin: Something with a second-floor view, but with some distance.
Travis: Preferably three bedroom, three bath.
Matt: (laughs) I'd say make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Meh. Six.
Laura: Can I look out too, I've been on the lookout for a building the whole time!
Matt: Yeah. I'll say, I'll say it takes the better part of the next hour or so, and you do a little bit of meandering to find it, you guys are being stealthy best you can through alleys and such, but even so you are out in the open, midday, but you are also, you know, under Seeming.
Marisha: Does it look like there's a covering nearby, roughly, 30 feet or so from the tree?
Laura: 30 feet?!
Sam: 30 feet?
Matt: No.
Sam: What about 150?
Matt: No, the tree is out in the center, and essentially the nearest building is probably anywhere from 100, 200 feet away from it. It's the tree out in the middle of the square, and the square, which used to have probably more things towards the center, more temporary establishments, have all been put to the sides and put to disuse.
Sam: Maybe underground stuff.
Matt: You do manage to see what appear to be what was once a tavern or an inn of some kind that is silent, closed, the doors locked and chained. The windows look dusty.
Laura: Can we sneak in the windows, so it keeps chained?
Matt: Okay. You go around the side of it, to the alley.
Taliesin: Dust of tracelessness.
Laura: Yeah, Dust of tracelessness.
Sam: Are you guys going in?
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: This is where we're going to hole up.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I kind of want to talk to the tree.
Laura: Then go talk to the tree, Keyleth.
Matt: The window is locked.
Sam: Wait, not now. Not now.
Travis: No, no, no, no, no, not yet.
Sam: Let's find a place first.
Travis: Let's post up first.
Liam: What am I, stealthing right now, or checking for--
Matt: Continuing your guys' stealth as your going, this would be your attempting to unlock the window.
Liam: Oh, unlock, okay. So that's a 22.
Matt: 22, okay. It takes a bit to jostle it in a way, because the lock is on the inside, but there are ways that you could shimmy the glass and get something underneath to push it aside. You manage to get the window open, and as you pull it up the dust billows up around you, you set it aside. You step in and the place smells stale, musty. Dark. There are, you can see, candlesticks set around that have not been lit for a while, and the oil lanterns that normally light the interior of the main tavern social area have been long in disuse.
Laura: Is there a cellar here?
Matt: If you guys want to look around. Are you all going in?
Taliesin: Yeah, we're all going in.
Travis: Yeah, we're all going in.
Matt: You as well? Or are you talking to the tree?
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Come inside.
Marisha: Does anyone want to come talk to a tree with me?
Taliesin: Not yet.
Laura: Not yet, not just yet.
Travis: Don't bring that-- don't mess with that thing.
Liam: Yeah, come with us. Keyleth, come with us.
Marisha: All right, all right.
Travis: Once we do it, it's like ringing a dinner bell.
Marisha: All right, all right, all right, I'm coming, I'm coming.
Sam: I'm gonna look for a brothel! (all laugh)
Taliesin: That's going to be the saddest brothel.
Marisha: The saddest brothel!
Matt: You find your way inside the abandoned tavern. And it is what was this giant L-shaped building, right here in the corner of the town square. There is a second floor, approximately runs 20 rooms. They are all currently unlocked, some of them left open, the bedding covered in dust, some of it looks like it was left in a hurry.
Travis: Yeah, we'll take it.
Matt: There is a cellar.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You find the cellar, and down there, there are a number of empty barrels, and a couple of ones that are still full.
Sam: Ooh!
Matt: One that appears to be a heavy whiskey barrel, probably about twenty untouched wine bottles. A little bit of ale, but it looks like a lot of ale was either completely used, or taken with whoever left and abandoned the premises.
Laura: I think we can definitely use these for explosions, if we need them.
Marisha: Ooh!
Sam: Or to drink.
Taliesin: Muscle relaxers. Is there a view of the tree?
Matt: Going from a number of the rooms up top, not every room has a window, but it's like every third room on that side of the building does have a view of the entire square.
Marisha: Can I get an eye as to how far away it is?
Matt: I'd say probably about 200 feet? 250 feet?
Laura: Can you go invisible and still talk to the tree?
Marisha: Hmm?
Sam: I can make her invisible if she can talk to the tree.
Laura: Can you talk to the tree if you're invisible?
Matt: If you cast a spell while invisible, unless it's Greater Invisibility, then it will drop the illusion.
Sam: I can make her invisible.
Marisha: I got an idea.
Sam: We can burrow under, we can--
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: -- find something closer.
Marisha: Actually, what are we up to right now? Are we doing anything? Are we busy?
Sam: Well, there are windows on the first floor, right?
Matt: There are some windows in the tavern; there was one on the second floor.
Laura: We're in the cellar, that's why I went to the cellar.
Marisha: Oh, there's a cellar?
Sam: I'm gonna just find some old rags, or anything I can find, tablecloths, and just cover the windows.
Laura: But make it not obvious, because it doesn't want to look like we covered the windows.
Sam: True.
Liam: I've watched you pass through solid stone and earth. How long can you do that for?
Marisha: I mean, I can burrow us a tunnel right now.
Laura: Do it!
Liam: Can you get us close to underneath the tree?
Laura: That's what she's going to do.
Marisha: I'm going to do it right now. I'm going to cast Move Earth.
Laura: From the cellar.
Matt: You're going to start carving a tunnel--
Marisha: To the direction of the tree. And I want to be careful, I don't want to damage the roots of the tree at all. So, as I start getting closer, I want to start looking for the roots of the tree.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough to find old rags; all of them have that stale, musty towel scent to them. You get them a little wet. There's no water here; all the water here has dried out.
Sam: We use the wine.
Matt: You'll have to use the wine; it'll probably kill some of the bacteria. There are wells throughout the towns you see, ground wells that are set in the city. There is no nearby river. The closest river, the one you know about, is about a 30 minute walk south.
Taliesin: It's a bit of a ways.
Matt: Yeah. You use that to coax them out a bit. It's easy enough for you to go around and put cloth over the windows. It's a dark interior, so it's not like an immediate--
Taliesin: Just so light doesn't leak out.
Liam: But, just in case, I think I'll hang back. I'm not going down to the pre-made tunnel, I'll just keep an eye above ground.
Travis: I am, too, I'm staying up in the tavern.
Laura: I'm going with you to the tunnel.
Taliesin: I'm going to tinker a little thing. Can I borrow an arrow?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Thank you. I'm going to tinker a very little, easy thing.
Travis: You want the top floor, I'll take the bottom floor.
Taliesin: I want to be able to fire and ignite one of the parchments on an arrow. So that I can--
Laura: Do you want me to shoot the arrow for you?
Taliesin: -- set a burn mark at a distance.
Matt: Interesting. Okay.
Taliesin: It would be a spark, as opposed to actual flame. It would just be concussive force.
Matt: Right, it's more getting the parchment there without it tearing or the arrow leaving it behind, because it is a thin, flimsy piece.
Taliesin: It would be coiled.
Matt: Coiled and then--
Taliesin: Hit, release.
Matt: That's going to be a really intricate-- go ahead and roll a tinkerer's check.
Liam: 20, 20, 20.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: Okay. You toy with it for a while; you think you have something that may work. You're uncertain as to on its release if it'll function or not. So, write down 'Parchment Delivery Arrow' with a question mark next to it.
Sam: Maybe there's a simpler way.
Taliesin: There might be, but just in case there's not, I want to make sure this works.
Marisha: You could always slap it up there and shoot it with a flame arrow.
Taliesin: I've got three of them, so I've got options. But I just want to make sure--
Marisha: How's my burrowing going? 200 feet.
Matt: All right. You continue to burrow through the ground, moving the earth aside and the tunnel opens before you like the clay slowly melting away. And it is wet earth. Eventually, you start getting to a few thick roots under the tree.
Laura: Can you talk to it from here, Keyleth?
Matt: The roots that you see, they continue past the tunnel. They go very, very deep into the ground.
Marisha: Awesome. I'm going to clear out a little more area, and I'm going to touch the roots and cast Speak with Plants.
Travis: Holy shit.
Sam: Speak with Plants?
Liam: Haroom haroom.
Taliesin: The only superpower more pathetic than Aquaman's.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Shut up.
Taliesin: Sorry, had to.
Laura: (kid's voice) Gee wiz, I wish I had some water.
Marisha: (kid's voice) The sun is so bright today!
Laura: Too bad we don't have Tiberius with us with his endless water fucking pitcher.
Liam: It's Ent voice. Haroom haroom!
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Laura: Sure, sure, sure.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Sam: I can go to one of the wells and get some water.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: Hey, he's cool sometimes.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: Sometimes.
Taliesin: It's what fish say. Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: That's what fish say.
Liam: That's all they say.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Matt: You finish the spell and you reach out and you touch the root and you instill the force of your nature-based divine energies into the root. Silence.
Sam: Oh no.
Matt: This tree is dead.
Travis: No!
Sam: Dead?!
Laura: You can bring it back!
Marisha: I can bring it back. Should I?
Sam: You can do that?
Marisha: I'm a druid, that's my-- yeah man!
Sam: You can bring dead things back?
Marisha: Yeah, it's called Plant Growth!
Sam: What?!
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: This I gotta see.
Marisha: Should I? Okay. But it's dead. What time is it now?
Matt: Right now, with all the traveling you guys have done, I'd say it's past noon, probably. Including the time you've spent inside the tavern, searching it through and preparing it as your base of operations.
Laura: Try it.
Marisha: Should I start it up now?
Sam: Yeah!
Liam: Go for it!
Laura: Go for it!
Travis: Go for it!
Marisha: I'm going to start my Plant Growth. I'm going to drop. Can I try to clear out an area where I can-- I should be fine.
Laura: Reach up in its junk.
Taliesin: Put your hand in it.
Marisha: I'm going to strap on my gloves.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Turn and cough.
Marisha: Hope you guys are ready for this.
Sam: Is it going to be loud?
Marisha: No, it's just going to take a long time.
Travis: Vax and I are guarding the tavern, so if anything comes--
Sam: I'm going to get provisions ready to spoon-feed her.
Marisha: Actually, before I do that, can we all have one last meal together and eat a Heroes' Feast?
Laura: I like it.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Certainly.
Taliesin: Let's eat.
Matt: So, you've made the purchase within Emon for how many of the requisite chalice for the Heroes' Feast?
Marisha: How many did I buy?
Taliesin: You have at least one.
Marisha: It gets used. It's expensive.
Laura: It's $1000.
Marisha: It's $1000.
Matt: It's a gem-encrusted bowl worth 1000 gold pieces, which the spell consumes. So, we'll say how many of those did you purchase in Emon, knowing you'd be casting this in the future?
Marisha: How much gold do we have?
Sam: Not a lot.
Laura: Is that for each person, or 1000 gold for the whole party?
Matt: For the whole feast.
Laura: How about you did three bowls?
Marisha: Three bowls.
Matt: Mark 3000 gold from the group's queue. And you have three gem bowls, using one now. So you have two bowls left at your disposal. And you prepare a Heroes' Feast for the group to consume.
Marisha: I take some of that leftover wine, use that to make it fancy wine.
Sam: This is great. This is awesome.
Laura: Are we eating in the cellar?
Marisha: So you get, I believe, 2d12 additional hit points on top of your maximum hit points.
Sam: Wait, forever?
Laura: No, no, for how long?
Marisha: For 24 hours.
Matt: It lasts for 24 hours.
Sam: 2d12?
Matt: So, until about--
Sam: What the fuck is a d12? I've never rolled a d12.
Matt: -- 2PM tomorrow. So mark that down, somebody note that it lasts until 2PM.
Laura: An additional 2d12?
Matt: 2d10?
Marisha: Oh, I'm sorry, 2d10.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Laura: Overall hit points.
Marisha: And, you should have- Ooh! I got two tens!
Laura: Ah, badass!
Matt: Trinket can also benefit from this, by the way, too.
Laura: Yay! Nice.
Taliesin: You also get other bonuses.
Matt: Yep. You are immune to poison, and diseases, and being frightened, and all wisdom saving throws are made with advantage. Feast is awesome.
Sam: Why don't we do that right before we go see the Briarwoods, also?
Laura: We have another bowl.
Marisha: We have two more bowls.
Sam: Because that is fucking awesome.
Marisha: Doing that right now, just in case the Briarwoods decide to come say hello.
Taliesin: Or any of the other terrible people who live in this town because there are terrible people in this town.
Travis: That was a delicious feast.
Sam: The tikka masala was tangy!
Marisha: So, we're immune to poison--
Matt: And disease and frightened. So, feast consumed, you now take your next eight hours--
Marisha: I'm going to go meditate. I'll be back in eight hours.
Matt: --to work on this. As she sits down to begin the ritual of cleansing, or bringing plant vitality enhancement to the vicinity of Whitestone. We're going to go ahead and end today's session there. Pick up at the end of that spell at the beginning of next week.
Taliesin: I love you all so much. I love you so much.
Matt: This is getting real interesting.
Marisha: What time is it?
Liam: It was like eight in the morning-ish when we found that building, yeah?
Matt: What?
Liam: Was it around eight in the morning when we got to that house?
Matt: You guys got to town around nine, 9 30.
Laura: So the spell probably started around 11.
Matt: Walking around, seeing things, finding the tavern. And then getting in there and cleaning it out. I'd say you're getting close to one, two o'clock now. You've also taken it slow, you're also being stealthy and not trying to be conspicuous as you move through.
Laura: Right, so we'll start the fight in the morning the next day.
Marisha: Well, I'm meditating now. I dropped into my meditation--
Sam: We're not starting any fight, we're forming an insurgency.
Marisha: Hopefully nothing happens and y'all don't have to defend me while I'm doing this shit. That's what I'm hoping for.
Taliesin: I have stuff to give you, too, 'cause, yeah.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: Man.
Taliesin: Thank you for letting me roll with that, by the way.
Matt: Of course. It fit right into my--
Taliesin: I had a funny feeling it would.
Matt: All right, guys. So we'll pick up from there next week, right in the center of the--
Marisha: A tree full of dead us? That's fucked up.
Laura: That's mean, Matt.
Taliesin: That was some mean shit, man.
Liam: That's what you call a giving tree.
Matt: It's a friendly place, Whitestone.
Sam: And the tree was happy. But not really.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, so that was it.
Matt: All righty. Well, I guess we have the announcements.
Zac: We have some donations.
Matt: Yeah, you guys are awesome.
Zac: And I wanna thank the chatroom for being on their best behavior tonight.
Laura: Thanks, guys.
Zac: Avoided the banhammer.
Sam: The what?
Zac: They avoided the banhammer.
Taliesin: There was no banhammer?
Zac: Not by me, anyway. There's always a couple trolls that find their way.
Matt: Yeah, it's the internet. Trolls happen. But yeah, guys, thank you for being respectful.
Taliesin: Guys, thank you, oh my god, I'm so happy to be sharing this.
Zac: You know what makes you guys so awesome? Donations for charity! (all cheer)
Matt: All right, so we have Maxine Palaquin donated leet, $13.37. That's fantastic, thank you so much, Maxine. Matthew Robinson donated $25, Matthew, brilliance. Elizabeth Lee's donated $100. Thank you so much, Elizabeth, that's incredible. Arthur Still donated $50, thank you so much, Arthur, well-played. Two anonymous people donated $15 and $25. Thank you guys. You're awesome, whoever you are. Sam Falco donated $25. Sam, you're rad. Kristen Wilhelmy donated $20. Way to go, Kristen. John Reed donated $15 and Sarah Hannah donated $100, John, you're awesome, Sarah, you're $100-awesome. Killer Penguin, another $20. Killer Penguin, always a good one. LoveMyMom donated $22.
Taliesin: Yeah we do.
Matt: Thelosthikers donated $25. Hikers, hope you find your way. Brian Wheedler, I think it is, donated $3, thank you so much, Brian. And any amount helps, by the way. Seriously guys that's great. Thank you so much. Patrick Toro donated $1,337. To Extra Life charity. That is fully a leet donation. Wow, Patrick.
Sam: Wait, maybe the decimal place was wrong?
Zac: Well, that would... sorry?
Taliesin: Thank you, we're very sorry!
Matt: I mean, that's incredible, Patrick, seriously. Malachi Olden donated $25. Thank you, Malachi. Emma Angfwist donated $50, sorry for ruining that, but thank you so much, Emma, that's wonderful. Ryan Kerr donated $25, Ryan, you're great. Emma came back with another $25 donation again.
Marisha: Double-dipping.
Matt: Thank you so much, Emma, I really, really appreciate that. And love to you this week. Anonymous donated $35.10, anonymous, whoever you are, love you too.
Zac: We'll go back to the beginning.
Matt: Got you, no worries. Richard Redmond donated $35. Richard, well-played, well done. Jordan Goland donated $15, thank you, Jordan, you're awesome. Another anonymous person donated $25. Whoever you are, hearts. Tim Pearson returns with a $25 donation. Thank you so much, Tim, you're rad. Steven Sudeban Davis donated $100. Steven, thank you, that's incredible. Onna Nelson also donated $100. Onna, you're awesome, that's incredible. Anna Law donated $25, thank you Anna. Well-played. Louis Lovelan donated $560. Louis. This community has so much people, so awesome.
Zac: An interesting note, they said they wanted to donate $20 per episode, 'cause they just caught up.
All: Oh!
Laura: That's a lot! Lot of episodes.
Matt: Chris Black donated $35. Chris, you're fantastic, thank you so much, buddy. Kash Brown donated $50. Kash, yeah. Steven Duggan donated $5. Is that the Dugganator?
Marisha: Yeah, that's Dugganator. Steven Duggan? Yeah.
Matt: Well, $5, thank you so much. James Ramsey donated $25. James, you do encourage goodwill. Tim Nicholson donated $25. Thank you so much, Tim Nicholson. Another anonymous, #pumpkinspicethisbitch donated $25. Thank you so much. Sidney, oh, Rokushepard, Sidney, who we met in New York actually, donated $15. Thank you so much, Sidney. Great to meet you. Arthur Gibbs donated $50. Arthur, you're fantastic, buddy. Joseph Allen donated $25 to Extra Life. Joseph, thank you so much. Another anonymous donated-- Oh, it's Megan! Donated $5. Thank you so much, Megan, really appreciate that. Joseph Ulbricky donated $25. Thank you again, Joseph, that's amazing. Descentfromgrace returns with a $50 donation, Descentfromgrace, yay! Thank you so much. Vin Call donated $10, Vin, thank you so much. GhostKaidan donated $15. Thank you so much, GhostKaidan. And one more that just came in, I believe. Tyson Poirier. I'm sorry if I ruined that. But Tyson, you're awesome, you donated $40, really appreciate that. Donated based on critical fails and natural 20s.
Laura: That's kind of awesome.
Matt: That's kind of a cool way to do it. Guys, you're all continuously fantastic in your support for this community, for the charity causes that we put this out for, ever-humbled.
Zac: Another big charity cause tomorrow. Where you're on drums. So tomorrow the Battle of the Bands from 5-7PM. Your team, in case you don't know, is you, Felicia Day, Tom Lenk, and Josephine, one of our mods. See, Felicia was doing this thing where she was like, what team could I put together that will immediately win fan-favorite without doing any actual work? So we saw your plan, Felicia, and we came back with our team of Lucas, Mr. Spoopy in the back, running the tech board.
Matt: Heck yeah.
Zac: Augie, who is a professional drummer, Hector, and Amy Dallen, and we know, between Amy and Josephine, our chat room is definitely going to be split on who's the chat room favorite, so.
Matt: So is the professional drummer on bass?
Zac: No. Definitely not. He is not on bass.
Taliesin: You dropped Whitestone.
Zac: He is not on bass. Lucas is able to play all songs on Expert on guitar, I think you guys are gonna have your work cut out for you. For sure.
Matt: It's all good.
Zac: For sure. They also work here almost all week, and practice after all the shows. (laughs)
Matt: That's cool.
Taliesin: Is that what you do?
Matt: I prefer to light my opponents on fire while they're drumming, 'cause I find that's a good challenge for their skillset.
Zac: Oh, that would make sure a good show. I'm very okay with it. Like, let's go for it. It's for charity, let's just do it.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: I wanna say, we had a studio audience for this show as well, which we're very thankful for.
Matt: Yes we did, actually.
Marisha: Fellow critter! Alec!
Zac: Come on up real fast. Yeah.
Marisha: Go next to the DM!
Matt: Come here real fast!
Travis: Duck down low!
Matt: Come on down here and say hello.
Alec: What's up, Twitch chat? How you doing? These guys are exactly as awesome as you imagine them to be. I have to say, completely blown away. Absolutely blown away.
Laura: Oh, you.
Taliesin: Thanks for just stopping by. That was cool.
Marisha: Yeah. Yeah.
Matt: Seriously, man. Thank you so much.
Alec: Thanks for having me.
Matt: Of course, buddy. And guys, thank you all so much for tuning in. Hope you enjoyed it. We'll be back next week, Thursday. I guess we'll end here with a is it Thursday yet? Have a good night, guys.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: So first and foremost, we'll get our announcements out of the way as fast as possible. First thing I want to announce, with a little help from our resident gnome bard here today: Scanlan's playlist on Spotify went up on the website. Do you want to talk a little bit about that?
Sam: Go log on to GeekandSundry.com, slash "find it on that site somewhere."
Marisha: It's on the front page right now.
Sam: And you can find it on Spotify. There's some cool songs on there.
Travis: That's baby-making music right there, baby.
Sam: Yeah. There's some panty peelers in there, too.
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: That's a terrible term.
Sam: I wrote it in the song description. Somebody edited it out. (laughter)
Marisha: Oh no.
Taliesin: Well.
Matt: Go check that out, guys.
Laura: Go check that out, guys.
Matt: Exactly. It's actually a pretty great playlist; I've been listening to it all afternoon while prepping for this. By the way, it's really interesting to write stuff for the current scenario in Whitestone with some Marvin Gaye in the background.
Taliesin: Are we going to feel that influence in tonight's game?
Matt: I certainly hope not. Also, next cool announcement: our first Critical Role comic came out today. Our four glorious first panels starting off the past adventure of the party in Westruun for their first Winter's Crest Festival. So yeah, there will be one four-panel comic coming out each week to go through the six week run of this storyline, written by our fantastic Taliesin Jaffe and Marisha Ray over here, and drawn by the incredible--
Sam: Sam Riegel.
Matt: No. (laughs) @WendyDoodles on Twitter. You guys know her as Wendy. She's one of our official artists. She's absolutely amazing. She's our artist for this run. So show her some love.
Liam: Endlessly charming.
Laura: Yes, she is.
Matt: Very much so.
Zac: Really quick announcement that I forgot to put on the document. Hey, guys. We are still in sub-only chat tonight, but we will be doing a giveaway at the half if we reach the sub goal, which is every 100, and I think we're 93 away from the next one. So if we hit 11,500 before the half, there will be a giveaway, and we will open that up to everyone watching, not just subscribers only. So anyone watching, don't fret. You still have a chance to win stuff.
Matt: And what is in the giveaway?
Zac: Tons of shit. Signed posters, D&D stuff. It's just a box of awesome shit.
Taliesin: www.TonsOfShit.com
Marisha: Don't look that up.
Taliesin: Don't look that up. It's just going to make you unhappy.
Liam: We got a big fat care package from Kurtis Wiebe, who is the writer of Rat Queens, so we have collected volumes. I think the first volume or two of Rat Queens. There's some t-shirts, so some of that will probably be finding its way in. Obviously, we love Rat Queens.
Laura: Obviously.
Matt: We like to fill your care packages with tons of cool shit. We throw random things in there for you guys, as well. Cool random things, not just random things.
Marisha: It's like Critical Role's favorite things.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: We'll be putting out a catalog.
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: Critical Role's most favorite things.
Matt: Cool, so check out the comic strip.
Zac: There is a fucking broom behind you.
Matt: There is a broom. Get that out of there. There you go.
Travis: It's because we're going to sweep these Briarwoods under the carpet!
All: Whoa!
Sam: That was quick. Love that one.
Marisha: So good.
Matt: Are you? (laughter)
Taliesin: I've got another character ready to roll when this all goes down.
Marisha: No! You can't have a plan B already.
Laura: I don't have a plan B.
Taliesin: Much like my parents, I have no plan B.
Matt: Laura, if you want to take this away, we have some new merch, apparently, that just went up in the store.
Laura: Oh my goodness gracious! So yeah, starting today, there will be a couple of Critmas hoodies available in the Geek and Sundry store, so Marisha, if you want to hold up one?
Marisha: Ready?
Laura: There's black and green. You guys should go on the website and check it out, because all the little details are freaking amazing.
Travis: There's ugly Critmas sweaters.
Laura: And these are designed by Kenneth.
Taliesin: Yule poop! There's yule poop here.
Sam: Aw, there is, and it's singing!
Laura: There's a little Trinket and there's Minxie. And there's a Pepperbox shooting bullets
Taliesin: And then there's arrows.
Laura: And there's "dagger, dagger, dagger."
Marisha: It's a Critmas sweater.
Liam: I just tweeted out links to the store from the @criticalrole twitter handle.
Laura: So they're the coolest, and then I know everybody was talking about how the "How Do You Want to Do This?" shirts were sold out. Those will be coming back very soon, and there is also "How Do You Want to Do This?" mouse pads for those people that don't want to wear anything and just want to surf the web.
Travis: Watch us, au naturel.
Taliesin: I'm now wondering how much of our audience is currently-- no, never mind.
Sam: Just wearing a mouse pad? (laughter)
Matt: For those who don't know, I don't wear pants during this show.
Laura: We're like newscasters.
Matt: Exactly.
Taliesin: He's so hairy, we hardly notice.
Matt: It's true, I'm like a satyr. (laughter)
Marisha: This is escalating quickly.
Taliesin: I've got plastic on my character.
Travis: A satyr! Draw that shit first. (laughter)
Matt: No, damn it. Oh man. Yeah, we had a lot of great feedback from people saying that shirts were great, but we want to expand into other parts of merchandise people were requesting, so we're starting to do that.
Laura: Yeah, there's some other cool things coming up, too, but that's what's available now.
Matt: We've been trying to be creative to make sure you guys have stuff if you want it, especially for this season.
Taliesin: Oh, and just to do it again since we haven't done it enough, please do check out the Spotify links and the comics. Go to the actual Geek and Sundry website because the more traffic the Geek and Sundry website gets for you guys going there to look at our stuff, the more excited they are to do cool stuff for us, so if you want more of this, definitely go there.
Laura: Well, also if you go to the website, then you can see the blurbs that we wrote about each of the songs and the explanations about why we chose them.
Marisha: We each picked fanart.
Sam: What I do is I favorite the geekandsundry.com website. I check it every morning when I wake up. That's what I do. It's my news in the morning.
Travis: I think I'll do that tomorrow morning. That's a great idea. That's imitatable.
Taliesin: We have so much stuff we want to do for you guys. We have grand plans.
Laura: Grand slam plans.
Taliesin: Thank you, ma'am.
Marisha: Thanks, Denny's.
Matt: All right, cool. Next up, just to remind you guys, most of our actual show announcements and stuff go up on our @criticalrole twitter handle, and we have all our personal ones, but that's our central place for all Critical Role-related business and announcements, so if you don't already follow that, you should because all our cool stuff goes up on that. Also, today's donations and our donations for a while are going to be going towards a new charity, pushing towards Doctors Without Borders, to help support people in crisis around the world. It's a wonderful organization. We're going to play a video with information about it during the break today, but in a world that is filled with a lot of positivity, there are dark places and there are dark things and people need aid, so we're hoping to do what we can to try and give to those circumstances, so check it out at the break and if anyone who is able to help give to that, please do so.
Travis: Solid.
Matt: Let's see, a couple other announcements. We will be off next week for Thanksgiving because all of us have families to see, so there will be no Critical Role next week, unfortunately. I think we'll be doing-- are we doing a rebroadcast of something?
Zac: We'll probably do a rebroadcast of all the episodes.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Like a marathon?
Zac: Sure, why not.
Matt: Or just 24 hours of a close-up of a turkey. A turkey I cooked, so undercooked. But yeah, so we won't be here next Thursday, but we'll be thinking of you lovingly in the process, and we'll be returning the Thursday after that to continue the story.
Taliesin: You'll be DMing a game for your family, I would assume. (laughter)
Matt: No, it never ends. No, I'll be eating copious amounts of pumpkin pie, probably.
Liam: You are now Homer Simpson in hell with donuts just going in. (laughter)
Matt: More, more! Yeah, so there's that. Other cool announcement, this week saw a video game release of Star Wars: Battlefront.
Travis: It's so good.
Matt: I haven't had a chance to play it yet, because Fallout.
Laura: Because Fallout.
Marisha: Because Fallout.
Matt: But that's next on the list. But you can hear both me and Marisha in Star Wars: Battlefront as stormtroopers. (cheering)
Matt: Both to kill you if you're rebels or to do better if you're with the Empire.
Marisha: This is the first time they're really focusing on female stormtroopers, so it's pretty cool.
Matt: I think it's rad. So apologies for being yelled at by us. Anything else you want to go over?
Travis: Yeah. Sam. Put your hand up by your face. Now high five me while I high five down on the count of three. One.
Sam: Wait, do I go up or down?
Travis: You're going straight down, straight up. One, two, three (impact noise). Did it work?
Sam: Did it work?
Travis: I've got to go lower. One, two, three (impact noise).
Sam: Ah! So strong! (laughter)
Laura: I want to see if it works.
Travis: You've got to wait 20 seconds. (laughter)
Liam: Switched over to PayPal. While he looks at that, one last thing. We are, as always, friends with Wyrmwood Gaming. If you want beautiful wooden boxes in all kinds of colors and patterns, go to Wyrmwood Gaming, and if you use the code CritRole, you will get free shipping.
Laura: Say it again. CritRole.
Liam: You'll get free shipping. Hey, one nerd helping out another.
Travis: They are so sexy.
Laura: They are very sexy. And they have magnets in them to keep your dice protected when they're in your other bags. Your Bag of Holding.
Marisha: Christmas is just around the corner.
Matt: It keeps my Critmas bronze? Thank you.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, you've got your little mini.
Matt: I know I'm so excited I have a mini! I'm not even in the game, really, but I am.
Laura: That's Gilmore's mini. Any time Gilmore talks, can he have that mini?
Matt: No. I'm going to one day do a Gilmore mini in private. It'll be fun. All right.
Liam: I brought this for good luck today. (laughter)
Liam: It's going to be my woobie.
Taliesin: Hey, now. Not cool. Not cool. We do not use the W word around here.
Sam: Does he even know what he's saying?
Taliesin: Yeah, he knows.
Liam: We're off the rails again.
Sam: All right, let's go.
Taliesin: Sorry.
Marisha: Fucking vampires.
Matt: Did you use woobie intentionally?
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: Goddamn it.
Liam: He's in Mr. Mom!
Taliesin: They don't know where you're pointing.
Laura: Point down!
Liam: He's in Mr. Mom. This guy right here.
Matt: Anyway! Let's get kicking into this evening's episode of Critical Role. So. To get all of you up to speed. The party has traveled to Whitestone, partially to free their name of some negative political ramifications back in their home city of Emon, and to aid Percy in possibly freeing his hometown of Whitestone from the oppression of Lord and Lady Briarwood, a couple who have risen to power over the past five years after slaughtering his family and taking it over and keeping it all this time. After arriving, they found a very heavy undead presence in the town, with giant zombies roaming the streets as sentinels. Most of the townsfolk kept under perpetual watch in this slowly will-crushing atmosphere. But as Vox Machina arrived, they began to instill the thoughts of rebellion. Stoking those flames once again with the return of the surviving de Rolo, they began to sway the people's minds to make a final stand. During that time, they also discovered that Percy's sister Cassandra is also a surviving de Rolo and exists somewhere in Castle Whitestone, seemingly under lock and key. The party began to systematically take out members of the new nobles who worked underneath the Briarwoods, setting many buildings on fire, leaving emblems of the de Rolo crest across the town and written in the sky, and after an extensive battle, began to make their way toward Castle Whitestone itself. Burrowing into a partially collapsed but long-remembered secret passage underneath the castle, the party rested for the evening with the help of their recently arrived cleric Pike, who had managed to project herself through the will of Sarenrae as a spiritual body given temporary physical form. While they were searching this tunnel, it led to the dungeons, the prison cells beneath the Castle Whitestone where Percy once woke up five years before, before Cassandra helped him escape. While they were walking through those cells, they discovered an old woman currently locked down below there who is asking for the party's aid in freeing her from her imprisonment. And last time we left off, you were helping with--
Laura: Fake helping.
Matt: Fake helping with the lock, much to her chagrin.
Laura: Yeah, and I had just snapped it off into the locks so that it's jammed it.
Matt: Yeah, you're a terrible person. All right, so as you snap off the lock and pull away from it, having the strange physical interaction in the darkness around here, Trinket behind you just breathing over your shoulder, keeping close to you just in case anything's wrong. She pulls her hands away. "Fine. (huff) Do as you wish, leave me to rot."
Laura: Oh, we'll be back. Don't worry.
Matt: She backs up and sits in the far corner of the prison cell and (huffs).
Laura: I look around. Has everyone left me?
Travis: The only people that are in the light--
Laura: All right then I follow to where everybody else is going.
Matt: All right.
Travis: She only saw me and--
Laura: Me and Scanlan.
Matt: And Scanlan, yeah. You all stepped out into the light. The rest of you stayed in the shadows.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right, so there are the rest of the cells which Vax has gone through and taken some time to inspect, where you found what appear to be the remnants of individuals who were imprisoned here and then left to die, long rotted, their corpses picked apart by various resident rodents and other creatures. After doing your passes, the conversation has happened, you see no other signs of life down here. This being the sole prisoner currently within the cells below.
Laura: I go and I find Scanlan.
Sam: Oi.
Laura: So, question.
Sam: Yes?
Laura: When you cast Seeming on us, our visual-- if you made me look like a cow, would I seem like a cow when I bumped into you, or would I seem like a human?
Sam: Are you asking me to make you into a cow right now?
Laura: No, I'm saying that if something was different--
Sam: Because I think this is not the right time.
Laura: I think that old woman was doing something weird.
Sam: Why do you think that?
Laura: Because she looked like she had full handses, but--
Sam: Four hands?
Laura: Full.
Sam: Oh, full hands. Okay.
Laura: Normal sort of hands, but I didn't feel them.
Sam: You didn't feel them? You touched her hand and it just passed right through?
Laura: Her hand touched me, but it didn't--
Sam: That's an illusion of some sort, yeah.
Laura: So she was doing some sort of--
Sam: I don't know what, but yes. If I were to cast Seeming on us, or some other sort of magic, it would make us look one way but not feel that way.
Laura: I guess it's good that we left her, then.
Sam: She's a caster of some sort?
Laura: I don't know.
Travis: Can you dispel Seeming?
Sam: Should we go find out?
Laura: I don't know.
Travis: How would we do that?
Laura: Can you dispel Seeming?
Sam: I don't know. (laughing) Let's go find out.
Marisha: Do you have a Dispel Magic on you right now?
Sam: I have-- No.
Marisha: Oh my god, I do!
Sam: Well.
Marisha: I learned it.
Sam: Oh, Keyleth?
Taliesin: Are we calling everyone over for this conversation?
Sam: I think we should.
Travis: Away from her.
Laura: Yeah, I'm far away from her now.
Sam: That prisoner over there is casting magic of some sort.
Laura: I think she had Seeming cast on her. I don't know if she did it herself or if-- well, I don't think she was what she appeared to be.
Taliesin: Do we want to waste power on somebody who's...
Sam: What if she's--
Travis: An early warning system?
Sam: Yeah, what if she's a guard?
Marisha: What if she's Lady Briarwood? Like what we were saying? That's what I'm most afraid of.
Sam: Well, then we should find out now and kill the shit out of her.
Travis: I vote for that.
Marisha: Well, before we do that, let's see who she is. I did come prepared, though, to dispel magic.
Laura: So you can do Dispel Magic?
Marisha: I learned it. I did.
Laura: Stay in the shadows, Keyleth, and cast it on her.
Travis: Percy, you're wearing what?
Taliesin: I'm wearing a hat of disguise so that I'm not immediately identifiable.
Travis: What are you in disguise as?
Laura: A dude in a hat.
Taliesin: Link from the Legend of Zelda. I don't know.
Sam: Well, you've got to figure it out right now.
Taliesin: I'm going to figure it out right now. Just as a reasonable Whitestone peasant.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Terrible teeth.
Taliesin: Trying to blend in.
Matt: By comparison to this troop, you're some poor sap who got pulled along, but yeah. You are that one quest-giver in Warcraft that walks way too slow and the party is like, "Come on, move!" That's who you look like right now.
Travis: Before we dispel magic on her, should we have someone put her in their sights in case she gets a little funky monkey?
Marisha: She will be able to feel it.
Laura: Well, yeah. She'll look like she's not herself.
Taliesin: We could also just ask her to drop it.
Travis: We asked her who she was. She lied. A lot.
Taliesin: Well, we could ask her to drop the Seeming.
Marisha: She lied pretty well, too.
Taliesin: She did.
Sam: I could go talk to her, and meanwhile she could be fiddling with her magic behind me.
Laura: Do it.
Marisha: You go talk to her. I'll be prepared.
Laura: I'll stay in the shadows with my arrow notched.
Travis: I'll stay with Scanlan in case things go wrong.
Marisha: I stay next to Vex.
Taliesin: I stay in the shadows.
Liam: How close together are the bars to this cell?
Matt: The bars are about four inches apart.
Liam: Four inches.
Laura: So my arrow will do much better than your dagger.
Liam: Well, no. I'm not saying for you not to, but would I be able to comfortably throw through?
Matt: Yeah!
Liam: Yeah? All right. I'm not telling you not to.
Laura: No, it's fine.
Matt: She'd have a little bit of cover.
Laura: Shoot your arrow, too. Shoot your dagger. Whatever.
Marisha: Shoot your dagger?
Sam: He doesn't shoot daggers
Liam: Passive-aggressive much?
Sam: All right, so I stroll over back to the cell.
Travis: With Scanlan, also.
Sam: Oh, flanked by Grog. Yes.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Not looking friendly, neither.
Matt: Okay, and there is the one torch that's a little off to the side that gives a little bit of light into this one portion of the dungeon below here. She's sat out, into the shadows of the far corner, arms crossed. You can see a little bit of the light framing her form. You make out okay in the darkness this close as a gnome, but you can see that she's just hunched in the corner, huffing in frustration.
Sam: Oi. Old lady. Listen. We said we were going to come back for you and release you when all was said and done, but we cannot make that promise if you don't tell us the complete truth. Now, we know that you're using magic of some sort. Tell us who you really are.
Matt: "I'm sorry, what?"
Sam: We are smart little people. And big people.
Travis: Thank you.
Sam: And we can sense that you are casting magic of some sort on yourself to disguise yourself. Now, I have some familiarity with this, so I make no judgment as to why, but please reveal your true self to us or else we cannot trust you and we will leave you here to rot and possibly die.
Travis: (whispered) Now.
Marisha: Now! I do it now! (laughter)
Sam: "Now, I do it now?"
Travis: Hopefully quieter than that.
Matt: As Keyleth, partially in the shadows-- the form of Scanlan small enough to not really obscure her presence-- but she nevertheless gestures in the air, recites beneath her words the forbidden druidic languages that coalesce the powers of nature around. At which point, there's a dull flash of energy within the cell. Some of the nearby straw on the ground gets blown away from her form from the general push of air the spell disperses and the impact.
Marisha: Sorry, got a little squirrely on that one.
Matt: The grey hair, the tattered clothes all vanish, revealing beneath it a woman in her early mid-forties or so. Jet black hair pulled into a tight ponytail, but strings of it in front of her face. Still in disarray but nowhere near as wrecked as the previous visage you were presented with. She's wearing nice travel clothes with what looks like some sort of a long duster-like coat that is a little ragged. You can see there's a little stain from being down here for a while. As soon as this moment hits, she pushes back even further, pressing herself against the wall, arms to the side.
Travis: There you are.
Sam: I must say, you look way better like this.
Matt: "Happy?"
Sam: Extremely.
Travis: Yes, I'd say so.
Sam: Yes, so who are you for real?
Matt: "My name is Anna, and I would like to be set free, if you don't mind. I can be of assistance to you. I happen to know a lot of information about the people that currently reside within this castle."
Sam: How would you know anything about them?
Matt: "Release me and I'll tell you."
Travis: You want to be set free?
Laura: Tell us and we'll release you.
Matt: "You've been so forthright in your interest in helping such an old and frail woman. How can I have any sort of guarantee of my safety should I give you the information you seek? You could very well slay me in this cell."
Travis: That might happen if you're not careful.
Marisha: What's Percy doing right now? Where's Percy?
Laura: Do you recognize her, Percy?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You very much recognize her. You do notice, by the way, her right hand? The sleeve ends. There is no hand there. It is just a missing hand, and the left hand is visible.
Travis: As far as we can see, unarmed? Right?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Anna?
Matt: "Yes?"
Taliesin: Let's be frank with each other. You have two options: either you are going to die in this cell-- and I promise you, you will die in this cell-- or you are going to convince us why you shouldn't. So I would start talking right now or I swear we will not leave this dungeon before you're dead.
Matt: Roll an intimidation check.
Marisha: It's pretty good.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16, okay.
Liam: And just as he finishes talking, I throw a dagger a foot away from her head in the wall.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: You gave her a fucking dagger? And then it flashes back to you, right? (laughter)
Matt: So the dagger which is thrown (whoosh) hits the stone wall next to her and jams itself between two of the stone bricks and gets wedged there for a second. She looks over for a second, reaches up for it and grabs the hilt as it vanishes in a puff of smoke.
Laura: You are so fucking lucky it did that. (laughter)
Matt: She leans forward and stands up and steps into the light, and you have a better look of her now, and her face is a little weathered from travel. You can see she definitely doesn't appear to be nobleborn, at least. She's by no means a homely looking individual, but you can see she's seen the world, or elements of it, to have those dark lines at the sides of her face, whether it be from smiles or frowning. She steps into the light and looks to you, this peasant individual making these threats, and seems partially shaken but keeping her composure in the face of such threats. She says, "Well, for one thing, I've been here with them for the past five years. I helped them reestablish their current social control of this city when they left it a pile of flames and rubble. And their little experiment beneath the castle? I was one of their chief scientific designers."
Taliesin: Tell us about the experiments beneath the castle.
Matt: (chuckles) "You'll have to ask Sylas or Delilah for that. I don't have all the details or the reasons behind it, other than the process I was brought in to construct."
Marisha: Can I see if she's lying?
Matt: You can. Make an insight check.
Marisha: Not great.
Taliesin: That's a number.
Marisha: It is a number. 16.
Matt: 16? Okay. You get the sense that she's telling the truth. You're not quite sure how far off the truth, but there doesn't seem to be any sort of bald-faced deception in her voice, at this point. She speaks with a confidence and a brusqueness of a person who is frustrated by the circumstance and has no other choice. "I wasn't interested in their zealotry or the whispered dealings, just the challenge behind the construction. I enjoy challenge. Challenge that pays, well, (chuckles) I enjoy that even more."
Taliesin: Question two  What are you doing down here, really?
Matt: "I'm down here because my work is done and I wish not to linger with an impending battle. I don't choose sides; I merely let them fight while I live another day far, far away. I wouldn't have gotten this far dealing with the people I've dealt with in the past if I had chosen to stick around under such circumstances, so I tried to leave. It appears Anders saw me packing and decided to gain 'a little favor by turning me in, so they threw me down here, told me to wait out the rest of the experiment, at least until the ziggurat was complete. So here I am, living amongst rats in a cell for over a week. That's my reward."
Laura: How did you lose the hand?
Matt: "Experiments can be dangerous, sometimes. I dabble with chemicals and alchemical reagents that can be miscalculated, and I paid a price that will be an ever-present reminder until I can find a way to fix it. And there are ways."
Travis: Are you looking for ways to get back at the Briarwoods?
Matt: "Based on the way they've treated me here and their possible intent to not even keep up their end of the bargain now that I'm free to walk away? Perhaps."
Taliesin: Can you lead us to Cassandra de Rolo?
Matt: She turns her head with a curious look. "I could, yes. Why do you ask?" She looks at you very intently.
Taliesin: That may be what your life is worth.
Matt: "So. What else do you wish to know? What else do you need, even, to get me out from behind these bars? Because I'm growing very uncomfortable and cold here in this cellar."
Taliesin: I pull forward, I look her very deeply in the eye, and I say, you should know who your friends are here. Do you know that we're friends? And I'm going to become friends. I'm casting Friends.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: What?
Laura: What?
Travis: Is good Percy casting Friends or shadow monster casting Friends?
Sam: We'll never know until he and Ripley kill us all.
Taliesin: I'm getting creepy. Just for flavor. There is definitely some creepy happening.
Matt: Okay. You stare at her at this point, intent pushing yourself toward the bars, and she's still looking you over like she's searching for some sort of an inclination as to why you're so interested in these particular questions.
Taliesin: You've been truthful with us so far, correct? You haven't been fudging around or playing games with us, really, have you?
Matt: "I've no reason to lie. Worst comes to worst, you kill me where I stand or leave me here to rot. What do I have to gain by lying at this point? Besides, you've already proven you can see through quite a few ruses. Apparently."
Taliesin: So you'd be happy to help us find Cassandra de Rolo, wouldn't you?
Matt: "If it gets me out of here and gets me free to do my own business, then yes. I'll have to get a few things from my room, but I would be more than happy to be free of this desolate landscape. This whole town is a ruin of misery, and it has no color. It has no culture. I've grown bored of it."
Laura: You say you're a scientist.
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: Do you use magic?
Matt: "I've no interest in paltry magics. I'm more of one who embraces the sciences as a means of understanding mystery. My whole purpose here was one giant chemical experiment."
Laura: Then who cast Seeming on you?
Matt: "Oh, that isn't to say I have don't have my tricks."
Taliesin: Anna. You will take us to Cassandra de Rolo. You will tell us what you know about what's in the basement. You will tell us where to find Lord and Lady Briarwood, and you will tell us where to find professor Anders. And for this, we may let you go.
Matt: "Hmm, may. That word, 'may.'"
Taliesin: I'll let you leave the castle.
Matt: "And if I agree to these terms, you'll release me at this moment? Keep me safe until it is time for me to take my leave?"
Sam: We may chain you to a bear, but yes.
Laura: This is Clarota all fucking over again.
Taliesin: You are, at the moment, the luckiest person in Whitestone. Do you know why? Because you're at the bottom of my list. (laughter)
Taliesin: And I take off the hat.
Laura: Oh shit!
Marisha: Oh shit!
Matt: As the peasant image fades, for her, there's an intensity to her eyes, a widening of realization as she steps back instinctually with a gasp. And there is definite fear in her voice and her eyes, but there's an uncontrollable smile on her face which catches you off guard. "Percival." (laughs)
Marisha: She's a nervous laugher.
Matt: "Well, then. This certainly explains a lot. I have many questions. I found your recent work very fascinating."
Taliesin: I will be happy to give you an up close and very personal demonstration. Unless, of course, you would rather have conversations about other topics.
Matt: "We'll start with the other topics." She adjusts her coat, regains her composure, and steps up to the bars expectantly.
Sam: Vax?
Liam: All right. I come out of the shadows.
Laura: Oh god, are we really letting her out?
Sam: Get a chain ready, or a noose of some sort.
Travis: No, we have manacles.
Laura: She's got one hand. How's that going to be useful?
Marisha: One hand and then one on the bear, right?
Taliesin: It means there's only one to shoot off to make sure she won't be a problem.
Liam: I pull out a pick and I walk up to the gate and I say, he's a very good shot. She's a very good shot.
Laura: He poops on things.
Liam: This guy, I've watched turn things into the Jelly of the Month, so I would tread very carefully.
Marisha: And then I peek out of the shadows and go, hi. (giggles)
Liam: She's a nervous laugher. (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and make a check lock pick. This will be more difficult than normal because--
Laura: I snapped off a thing in there. Sorry about that.
Liam: All right, I'm going to use Luck.
Laura: You're going to use Luck now?!
Sam: Shall I inspire you?
Taliesin: Don't use Luck yet
Liam: It's not that bad. That's a 20.
Matt: That's a 20 baseline?
Liam: Yeah, because of my--
Matt: Expertise? All right. 20 is exactly what you needed.
Liam: Skadoosh.
Matt: That was the next one. So you take a moment you walk up all slick and (click).
Liam: Wait. One sec. This never happens. (laughter)
Matt: You have to get down and you spend the next 30 seconds actually managing to get the pin that she has stuck in there out without actually breaking the spring inside.
Laura: Sorry about that.
Sam: Fucking doors!
Liam: Shut up!
Laura: It never ends!
Matt: About a minute and a half of awkward quiet as the sound of scraping metal and jimmying thieves' tools, eventually (click).
Liam: We're still very tough. (laughter)
Matt: And with that, (ting) the lock comes loose and the bars (creak) open a little bit.
Laura: Trinket, watch her.
Matt: (grunts) The bear, which at this point has been barely visible, steps out of the shadows, as well--
Sam: Bear-ly? (groaning)
Matt: It would be you.
Liam: Kill him!
Matt: Steps out and presents a very puffed-up Trinket made to look intimidating. (growl) Towards Dr. Anna Ripley.
Taliesin: Here's the deal, Anna. You do what we ask, you do not betray us, you do not make our life difficult in any way, and you have my word that you will leave Whitestone unmolested by us. If I sense the slightest hint, if I have a moment where I think that you might make a run for it, if I have a moment where I think you may cough inappropriately, I would ask you to think about everything you did to me, and I would like you to know that I have learned so much more than what you taught me that day, and I cannot wait to show you. And I will. But not until I find you again.
Matt: "Understood, Percival. Well, then. Shall we?" She steps out of the cell, pushes the bar aside, saunters up past you, steps over, still facing you underneath the torch light.
Sam: Should we shackle her?
Taliesin: No.
Sam: Oh? All right.
Taliesin: It'll arouse suspicion.
Matt: "I'd like to gather my things."
Sam: Things? They let you have things in a prison cell?
Matt: "Well, I don't have them here in the cell. They're in my room."
Sam: We have to go to your room?
Matt: "I would like to."
Laura: Tell us what you need and we'll get it for you, dear.
Matt: "Very well. Come." And she begins to step up the stairway that leads out of the dungeon.
Laura: Can you walk quietly? Please?
Matt: You can hear the slight chuckle in the darkness. She goes, "I haven't lived this long without learning to step a little gingerly."
Sam: Oh boy.
Liam: Let's go parading through the castle.
Taliesin: I'll follow her.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Let's all follow her, right?
Travis: We should check any of the other cells?
Laura: We did. We already checked them all
Matt: As you're walking up the stairs, she's talking to you a bit out loud and she's just saying, "This whole entire endeavor-- while it did pay well at the get-go and did pique some of my curiosity, I'm very happy to see it out of my life after this." You guys get to the top of the stairs and there is a closed wooden door there. She comes to the door and listens to it for a second. (creak) Opens it up and looks out. "Huh. Empty." Holds the door open and says, "Who would like to enter?"
Sam: You would like to enter.
Matt: "All right, just giving the offer." And she steps into the room. This is the end of a long hallway that leads to a series of doors on the right and left side, and it opens into a large central entrance chamber to what would be the castle. So she steps in. She's not going too far ahead. She's being very conscious that based on the fact that she has nothing on her and you are very well armed, it would not behoove her to attempt to make a run for it.
Laura: Do we see anything in the room?
Taliesin: Perception is passive as hell right now. I am keeping very sharp eye on--
Matt: No, I understand. Looking around. She's taking her steps slowly, and she's looking around corners as you guys progress. The doors that are there-- everyone's being very quiet, just the very gentle sounds of careful footsteps against the smooth stone floor. (footsteps) She turns around, looking at the rest of you a little confused, and goes, "Huh. Usually there are a lot more individuals frequenting this castle."
Sam: Maybe they've been drawn out by the thing that we incited outside that's been going on for like 45 minutes now?
Marisha: Feels like a trap.
Laura: No, but there is fighting. Can we hear fighting?
Matt: You're inside the castle right now. You could go and if you want to try and enter one of the rooms to the right or left, you can see if there's a window.
Sam: Are there any open doors?
Matt: All the doors are currently closed.
Liam: I just want to see if I sense anything around.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 23.
Matt: Perception?
Liam: Perception, yeah.
Matt: Okay. You take a moment and listen around. Silent. Still. It's unnerving.
Sam: Does she have a window in her room?
Matt: You asking?
Sam: We're at her doorway, aren't we?
Matt: No, you've just stepped up to the base floor of the castle. You're on the base floor, on the side of it. You're not even quite sure which way is north.
Travis: Nobody we're looking for is going to be above us, right? They're going to be below the castle.
Sam: For sure.
Travis: So we don't want her to get her shit in her room. We need to be asking how to get below the castle.
Taliesin: We'll get there.
Sam: What are you getting?
Marisha: She wants her weapons.
Taliesin: And I want to see what she's built, anyway.
Sam: Why would we let her have a weapon?
Travis: We're not going to.
Laura: Can't we look at what she's built after we fight them?
Sam: It could be useful.
Taliesin: As we're walking, I just want to very gently take my gun--
Sam: And shoot her with it. (laughter)
Taliesin: And just put it gently at her back, going, nothing personal. I'm just feeling a bit nervous.
Matt: "Understood." She straightens up a little more and continues walking ever so carefully. Not quite leaning her head or making too many large movements, but definitely still keeping a seemingly nervous eye on how quiet the atmosphere is.
Laura: I creep over to one of the doors in the room and see if I can hear anything on the other side.
Matt: You don't hear anything inside the room. Roll a perception check.
Laura: (groans) 14.
Matt: You hear some slight, muffled, dull thud noise, but you can't really tell how close it is. It's very, very faint.
Laura: Can I see if the door handle is--
Matt: (click) It's open.
Laura: I step to the side and push it open.
Matt: Push it open (creak) The door opens. Everyone before you whips around, hearing the noise in the silence. Looking inside, it appears to be a long-untouched music room, a space for hosting individuals where you would have small performances, and there is a very cold fireplace in the far corner. There is a small, circular window that is placed in the center of the room that has a very thick glass pane with cross bar on it that seems to look out. And this is your first view-- for you, especially, since you woke up in the tunnel-- your first view of the outside.
Laura: And?
Matt: Do you go up to the window and look?
Laura: Sure.
Liam: I'm following my sister in, doing the buddy cop thing.
Matt: Okay. You two coast up to the glass and look out, and another cloud-covered, slightly drizzly morning has taken the caldera between the mountains that houses Whitestone in this forest. You can see the entire city of Whitestone down below this elevated part of topography. What you do see, one, are large plumes of smoke, about six or seven of them, all gathered towards what you can tell now is the north side of the city, which is the closest to you. You guys are on the southwest side of the castle, based on the spatial awareness you've now made.
Marisha: Where the more upper-class folk would live, I'm assuming?
Matt: Go ahead and roll perception check, while you're glancing out.
Marisha: Sure.
Liam: So close.
Laura: That could've been so bad. 20.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: It was like whee-- oh.
Matt: (laughing) Love those little (gasps) moments. Taking a moment, you pull your brother in to point out where you're looking. It looks like the gates to the castle are wide open. There are tracks through the mud that lead down the pathway to the bottom, and right where the path from the castle intersects with the outer wall of Whitestone, there is a fray going on right now. It looks like the remnants of whatever sort of undead army that wasn't destroyed by you guys, combined with what may have been a number of the individuals who normally guard the castle, have all been momentarily distracted by the rebellion you guys have started, and for the time being, at least, have left elements of this castle unguarded.
Laura: Nice. I would loot, but it's Percival's home. Do we see anything that looks like it could be a doorway leading down, or anything?
Sam: We've gone up, right?
Laura: We're on the main level.
Taliesin: We're going to try to get my sister first.
Laura: Do you know, Percival, how to go under?
Taliesin: Yes. Unless there's something new, then yes. I was born here.
Liam: Before my sister leaves, I grab her by the arm and say, "Listen to me--" (creaking)
Liam: What is that? Pizza. Forget I said that. Listen to me, I do not have a good feeling about this. And I start to undo the cloak that's on me, And I want you to wear this. And I tie an elven cloak. Shut up, please. I don't need it. You will wear this. You will stay hidden when it is needed. You almost lost me. I almost lost you. You will wear this as needed.
Laura: I will wear it. Thank you.
Liam: I walk out ahead of her.
Matt: Pull the hood up. So you get advantage on stealth checks. As you guys step into the hallway and move forward, Pike's physical form is drifting along you guys as she takes each step. You can see she's stopped a little bit and she's lost in thought for a moment. And she looks at the rest of you and says, "There is a great evil here. It's--" And you can see part of her form flicker and shake and almost blink for a moment, and then she reaches forward and says, "Something's willing me away. I ca--" And with that, her form just vanishes.
Laura: Oh no!
Taliesin: Damn.
Matt: As you feel this warmth on your hand, Vax, and the symbol of Sarenrae that you have embedded in your glove. You look down, and it has a slight glow to it, similar to the color that her divine energy form had taken. And you see it just slowly fade, but not entirely. The symbol seems to just have this general very faint radiation. A reminder, or at least what small semblance of a connection to her in this dark, dark place.
Liam: (whispering) Goodbye, Pike.
Travis: Before we move on from that foyer, can we see the front door from where we're at?
Matt: If you go another 20, 30 feet ahead to the end of this hallway, it should open up into the main entrance chamber and you would be able to see the doors.
Travis: So we're not there yet, okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a moment and I have an epiphany, and I'm going to shift my form into a castle guard.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Vex, what you saw through the window, should we move through the castle quickly because it's unguarded?
Laura: I guess. There's fighting going on now. I don't want to eat right now.
Taliesin: We'll get it on the break.
Laura: I saw fighting, lots of fighting. I feel like if we're going to move, we need to do it quickly.
Travis: Yeah, we're on a clock.
Sam: Okay, let's go.
Taliesin: Anna. I lower the gun and let her move forward.
Travis: You don't need to lower it.
Matt: She continues forward, heads towards the rest of the hallway into the main entrance chamber of the castle, very carefully looking about. She gestures to the rest of you to follow. And as you follow along beside her, you can see the two large front doors that situate the entrance, the main entrance to Whitestone--
Sam: Are they open?
Matt: No, they are closed.
Travis: I have 20 caltrops. Can I throw ten of them in front of the door?
Matt: Yeah, if you'd like to. (laughter)
Matt: They scatter and clink against the ground, scraping against the stone and eventually coming to a stop loosely around the two doors, which are about eight feet wide each, so 16 feet of it, so you're scattering about one every foot and a half.
Liam: I watched him do that, and I shrug and I reach into my pack, and I throw 30 more of them.
Matt: Okay. The area has a little more coverage on there, but nevertheless there is a nice cluster of nasty spiked caltrops now.
Laura: That was a good idea. Very smart there.
Travis: Yeah. Thank you.
Sam: Grog, using your noggin.
Travis: One a day. (laughter)
Taliesin: Was that a thought for the day, then? Don't sprain yourself. We need you later.
Travis: I'm back. (laughter)
Matt: Ripley starts making her way up the stairs, and the staircase ascends for a good 15 feet up before it splits into two curved stairways that come around to a second landing to the second floor.
Marisha: So hang on one second, real quick, he's dressed as a guard?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and cast Enhance Ability on you. For charisma.
Taliesin: I don't need it.
Matt: Well, you do now.
Taliesin: Has it worn off?
Matt: It lasts for a minute, so yeah, it's worn off.
Marisha: Oh, it only lasts for a minute?
Matt: Friends only lasts for a minute.
Taliesin: I had enhance charisma on for a while, but now it's gone, so if you do it, what I had is gone--
Travis: Pour some sugar on, Keyleth.
Marisha: I'll do it. I'm going to enhance. In case we get busted. So you'll have advantage on persuasion rolls.
Matt: Okay, so you have advantage on all charisma-based ability checks.
Taliesin: All right, putting that down.
Marisha: Also, no one forget that we have Heroes' Feast.
Laura: Wait, if I put the holy oil on things, it lasts for a few hours, right? It lasts for half a day or something?
Matt: I'd say it lasts for about an hour after application.
Taliesin: Wait until we're in the thick of it.
Matt: The oil will eventually just drift off, as it is an oil.
Laura: It dries and stuff.
Matt: Yeah, it dries and gets rubbed off. It lasts about an hour after application.
Taliesin: Let's head to her room.
Matt: Okay. You head up the stairs. She's being very quiet about it. She comes up to the landing, heads to the first major hallway that opens up into a long set that goes all the way to the eastern side of the castle. You recognize this area. This is where a number of smaller guest rooms were arranged. There's also a reading room. Around the corner and down the way is where your father's study is. And around the back is where Professor Anders's study was. She continues forward and eventually stops at a door halfway down the hall. Motions to all of you. "Do you mind?"
Laura: What do you want? What's in there?
Matt: "My belongings."
Taliesin: I want to see what you've been working on.
Matt: "All right." She opens the door. (creak)
Marisha: I'll wait outside and stand watch.
Laura: I walk in with her.
Travis: I stay right next to her.
Matt: So in her room, it's very plainly decorated. You know these rooms are generally very well decorated, just in case. Decorations have been taken off. This room looks very minimalistic and for the most part more for function than anything else. You see there is plain sheets on the bed, most of the room's open space is taken by a long table that's been put here that has a series of alchemical glassware, and you can see what looks to be small containers that contain different materials and powders and seems like she does her own work here. There are two open drums on the side, and there is this very caustic smell to the air. There is an acerbic tinge to the nose as soon as the room enters. There's just this ever-present, very heavy fresh rust smell to the room. She walks to the far end. Underneath the desk that contains this alchemical setup, she pulls a small chest out--
Taliesin: I watch very carefully.
Matt: She brings the chest to the top. She opens it up, and on the inside you can see just some folded clothing. She moves the clothing off to the side and she pulls out what looks like relatively simple leather armor. "May I?"
Travis: Very, very slowly.
Laura: Don't be creepy, Grog. (laughter)
Travis: Creepy? I'm going to put her through the wall if she moves in the wrong way.
Taliesin: You know, I almost killed you in Stillben.
Matt: "Really?"
Taliesin: Do you remember?
Matt: "Huh. I didn't know that was you."
Taliesin: I was kind of curious if you had figured it out or not.
Matt: "No."
Laura: Tell you what, I'll hold onto that armor for the time being.
Matt: She's partway into it.
Laura: Yeah, you can take it off. We'll put it in the Bag of Holding. You can put it on after we're done.
Matt: (heavy sigh) She folds the tunic portion over the chest piece and hands it to you, pulls out some of the arm braces and leg guards and hands those over as well.
Taliesin: Show me your work.
Matt: She goes underneath the chest and she pulls out two small glass vials and sets them on the side. She then reaches underneath and pulls up what looks to be a false bottom of the chest. Places it. At which point she reaches in and pulls out a metallic construction that you all see looks not unlike in shape and purpose as the Pepperbox that you've seen Percy use all this time, though it has only a single barrel and has a small rotating four-part chamber to it. It's a little more refined than his construction, and you can see now part of the alchemical setup she has in here actually is, and you recognize this as you get close, part of it is designed in the creation of ammunition and refining the powder that is used by this process. You see a series of notes that are off to the side that have sketches outlined of your Pepperbox, though not really accurate. Almost like they were recalled from various individuals that had seen it in person and given accounts of it. She's been keeping a very close log of eyewitness accounts of your weaponry, apparently, for some time.
Sam: She's a fangirl.
Marisha: Yeah, she is.
Taliesin: I'm disappointed. I was expecting something more imaginative.
Matt: (laughs) "You've seen my room, have you not? I prefer function."
Taliesin: (scoffs) Hack.
Matt: She reaches down and--
Travis: Keep your hands away and step back.
Taliesin: We'll give those to you when it's time to leave.
Matt: "How am I to defend myself should things go, and pardon my term, ass-up?"
Laura: Are you planning on fighting with us? Helping us?
Matt: "You say you won't release me until you've finished what you're doing here. I assume that what you're doing here is ending the current reign of those who rule this town. I can't assume that's going to end with a conversation."
Liam: I lean my head in and say, the goliath could turn your head into paste now, if you like.
Laura: Tell you what, we'll take the weapons and give it to you if we need your help.
Taliesin: Let her have the armor. As a sign of good faith.
Travis: What if it's enchanted armor?
Taliesin: And give me your ammunition. And when it's time, I will hand some to you.
Sam: So you're leaving her the weapons but no ammo?
Laura: No, I'm taking the weapon.
Taliesin: The weapon's useless.
Laura: I don't care.
Matt: She gives you the weapon begrudgingly. Hands you a pouch about this big that's pretty heavy, containing a series of iron balls inside. You can see there's the various instruments she uses for forging them and crafting them there across the table. She puts her hand out towards you for the armor. She puts it on, a little quicker this time, because she feels like she had a little victory. She takes a little vial, puts it in her pocket. She reaches over and grabs a little pouch inside the side with change. Puts a little bit of money to the side there.
Travis: What are in those vials?
Matt: She reaches in, pulls them out, shows them to you. And you recognize the color. She goes, "What, you think you're the only one who doesn't occasionally suffer a wound? I have to look after myself, as well." It's a greater healing potion.
Travis: One of them is? Or they both are?
Matt: The one she pulled out and showed you.
Travis: What about the other one? (laughter)
Matt: "Really?"
Travis: Really. Lest your brains leak out your ears.
Matt: She pulls out the other one. "This is in case things go really poorly and I need to uphold my sense of self-preservation."
Laura: What does that mean?
Travis: Yeah, what does that mean?
Matt: (sighs angrily)
Taliesin: Convince us to let you keep it.
Matt: "It allows me to make a fleeting escape on the air as opposed to by foot."
Laura: Oh. Well, then give it to me.
Travis: Axe. (laughter)
Matt: And with that, the glass almost shatters with the amount of frustrating force she slams it into your hand.
Laura: Careful. That's made of glass, darling.
Travis: I was only stretching. No need to get testy.
Matt: So you have a Potion of Flying in your inventory right now.
Taliesin: And god forbid you'll see how gracious we're feeling when we find Cassandra De Rolo unhurt.
Sam: Yeah, Grog! Grog with the steal.
Laura: Ooh, I get a piece of paper!
Travis: Shit, Potion of Flying.
Laura: This is awesome.
Sam: All right, do you have your shit? Can we get out of here?
Matt: "Yes. Everything else here is of no interest to me." She kicks one of the drums on the way out. Slips back into the hallway.
Sam: Anything you could use, Percival?
Taliesin: Was there any more black powder? I've taken all of her ammunition and black powder, I suppose. Anything else that looks useful to me?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: That's intelligence.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Oh. Well, hell. Eight.
Matt: Eight? You give a quick once-over of the room. The place is pretty barren. Other than the large drums of what seems like three inches of some weird caustic substance at the bottom.
Taliesin: I hate what you've done with the place.
Matt: It's a recurring substance. A lot of the vials are based around it. There's a recurring theme of this caustic liquid throughout all of her instruments.
Taliesin: We'll have a conversation about what she was trying to do off-camera so I can have a better understanding of it.
Matt: In what way?
Taliesin: I figure I may poke you later to get a better understanding, just so we don't have to bore other people with her technical accoutrements, but I would like, at some point, an out-of-character understanding of what I'm looking at. Of what I could discern about what I'm looking at.
Matt: Or we could have it on camera.
Taliesin: All right. No, I just figured it'd be, I don't want to-- (laughter)
Taliesin: I want to kill something tonight.
Laura: Yeah! We were also running out of time.
Taliesin: Exactly.
Laura: There are people fighting right now.
Taliesin: Committed as much to memory as possible. Let's go.
Laura: When we defeat the Briarwoods, you can come back and explore this room to your heart's content.
Taliesin: Touche.
Marisha: It'd still be your place.
Matt: "Now, to your sister, is it?"
Sam: Up or down?
Matt: "This would be on the other side of this floor."
Taliesin: Which room?
Matt: "I think you know the room." And you know that you're not too far from your sister's room.
Marisha: They let her keep her room.
Liam: See you later. I go stealth. 20. No, 23.
Matt: As you guys make your way across the other side of the hallway, back toward the western side of the castle, eventually finding where, not far from where your room was, as well as the rooms of your brother and Cassandra. They're all localized in this one area of the castle, so you were all nearby. She goes straight to Cassandra's room. Goes to the door and doesn't touch it yet.
Taliesin: A quick question before I open this door. Am I going to have a violent reaction towards you when I open it?
Matt: "I certainly hope not."
Taliesin: Good. (sighs)
Travis: I stand right behind her.
Taliesin: I motion to everyone, stay back, open the door, and I push Dr. Ripley into the room, with me behind her.
Matt: Okay. As you pull the door open, (creak) you push her in. The room is dark. There is no light. What little bit of light that peeks in from the hallways in the poorly-lit interior of the castle for this time of day. You can see there is her canopy bed. You can see there is her cabinet in the corner, but the room appears to be dark and empty.
Taliesin: Torch.
Marisha: Are there any wall sconces around? Torch wall sconces on the outside?
Matt: There are a few along the walls that are currently burnt out at this point.
Travis: I take a torch out of the Bag of Holding and I take the Firebrand War Hammer, ignite it, and hand the torch to Percy.
Matt: Okay. You glance about the room. It's lived in. The actual bed covers themselves are pulled off. You can see she has a vanity mirror cabinet in the far corner. It's all put away. The chair's open a little, like it was stepped out of. The room is absent of anyone.
Taliesin: I walk over to the closet. I open it.
Matt: Okay. You open the closet. She has outfits there. Many of them don't appear to have been worn in a while.
Taliesin: Looking for signs of life with the paper on the desk.
Matt: You search her desk?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Let's have a real roll. That will do.
Marisha: That's a really good roll.
Taliesin: That's a natural 20.
Travis: It is?
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Classic Percy.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: It was doing this on Group Hug, man.
Matt: You go through her vanity cabinet, and you find there's small gems there. Just little keepsakes of hers. Things from her childhood. You do find there is a tattered portrait of her and your brothers and you that appears to be partially burned on one side that is kept on its own at the bottom of the top shelf. You can see currently it just shows half of your face, her next to you, and your other three brothers to the side. The rest of the family is burned off at the top point, but this was once a portrait that was in one of the hallways that apparently was destroyed in the initial attack or since then. And she's kept this scrap as some sort of memory and hid it within her cabinet. You also do find a stack of paper, a series of partially-written notes and ink and quill that are false stops. Letters that were partially written and then crossed off, or mistakes were made or they never got finished that are all written to Archibald. And they talk about the general unrest in the city. Preparation for a possible coming rebellion. Discussing past failures but the intent to try again. There's a theme through a lot of these notes that this appears to be one of the methods she was using to communicate in the outside of the castle, and was her role in previous attempts at freeing the people of Whitestone.
Taliesin: She's not here.
Matt: You see Ripley's also like, "Well, if she's not here, she's somewhere else in the castle. I assume."
Taliesin: Where would she be?
Matt: "I don't spend my time wondering or curious about her well-being! I just know that she is usually here."
Taliesin: Anna. I'm going to take a leap of faith and believe, contrary to all evidence, that you are a smart woman. I pull out the gun, and I put it to her head. Now. If you were the Briarwoods, where would you put my sister?
Laura: An important question here, Percy. Are they keeping her, or is she here of her own volition?
Taliesin: I don't know. And if you don't know, make me believe it.
Matt: "I know she's not allowed anywhere near the ziggurat or near our distillery."
Taliesin: Distillery? I pull the gun away.
Matt: She breathes a sigh of relief. "That's been largely my project as part of this entire endeavor. All right, so when I was brought in here, I was tasked to experiment with the design and create large amounts of a very, very delicately prepared acidic compound, one that could dissolve the stone of your whitestone and distill it down into pure residuum. This would allow the bulk creation of a very powerful magical essence for use in construction materials that we could instill and use apparently for this ziggurat, as well as other such things. Thus, that was my main reason for being here. We were ahead of schedule, and I completed the bulk of our development weeks ago, and I no longer had much of a purpose here."
Marisha: Ahead of schedule? I'm sorry. Hi. By the way, I'm Keyleth. We haven't really talked yet. What schedule were you trying to keep? What was the deadline?
Matt: "We were trying to create enough continuous acid to develop enough residuum to be used in the reconstruction of the ziggurat. Once I had developed enough of the compound to where we no longer had to create more, my purpose was complete. I had no interest beyond that. The rest is gibberish to me."
Taliesin: So you're telling me that somewhere in this castle there is a storage facility full of caustic acid that dissolves the very stones of this castle?
Matt: "Yes."
Sam: I reach out and I take out my potion of acid resistance and I drink it. (laughter)
Matt: Okay. Mark that. She looks at you, goes, "Yes. If you've seen the vents of greenish fume billowing out in the garden, that is where the distillery exhausts to."
Taliesin: Well, this is interesting.
Laura: Ziggurat? What's it for?
Marisha: What exactly does it do?
Sam: Hurry up. Time is of the essence.
Matt: "I don't know. It has something to do with the Briarwoods' interest in some third party. Someone they've been working with. Someone I've not met, someone who I have no interest in inquiring within."
Marisha: A name. Give us a name, girl.
Matt: "I was not given a name. They don't speak of this individual's name. They are very secretive about it. They paid well, they gave me land, they gave me a title, and when things were done, I was to go free. Which is why I was not happy in which the predicament you found me, made me."
Travis: Where can we find this ziggurat?
Matt: Her eyes trail down to the floor. "The ziggurat itself is, well, based on the tunneling structure, the distillery's direction? Right beneath the city of Whitestone."
Travis: The city or this castle?
Marisha: They're going to destroy this fucking city.
Laura: Is it underneath the Sun Tree?
Matt: "No, not the distillery. The ziggurat might be."
Sam: Wait, what?
Taliesin: Oh dear.
Marisha: They're going to-- yeah.
Taliesin: Are they still melting down the whitestone for magical energy?
Matt: "No, I don't believe so, not for weeks. We finished that process for quite a bit now."
Marisha: So you're done melting the whitestone, but you still have a whole bunch of this acidic compound kicking it in a warehouse somewhere?
Matt: "Well, not in a warehouse. That's all kept stored underneath the garden of the castle."
Travis: We need to finish clearing this house now. I don't know if they're even here.
Taliesin: We'd better move.
Sam: Downstairs.
Taliesin: Downstairs.
Matt: "You were asking about Anders, though. Do you wish to pay him a visit?"
Taliesin: (growls)
Matt: You can see a smile on her face. She does not like Anders.
Marisha: She's trying-- Percy? Percy, she's trying to bait you. She's trying to waste time right now. Come on.
Matt: "He was your sister's keeper."
Marisha: She's trying to-- Percy, la la la. Percy, come on.
Laura: He's probably with the Briarwoods.
Marisha: Come on, he's not there.
Liam: I'm off sitting in the shadows, but I say, Percival, we need to cut off the head.
Taliesin: Is it possible that my sister would be with him?
Matt: "It's very possible if she's not here."
Laura: Anna, shut. Up.
Matt: "Very well."
Laura: Percival.
Matt: "I only say because my whole--"
Laura: "Anna!" And I notch an arrow and aim it right at her throat. "Shut. Up."
Marisha: Percy?
Sam: Where would this professor be?
Matt: "I imagine his study. It's around the corner."
Taliesin: We'll check his study, and then we'll go.
Marisha: No!
Taliesin: Just his study, then we'll go.
Marisha: Percy!
Taliesin: Even if he's there, if she's not there, we'll leave.
Travis: Go. Lead the way.
Marisha: We're running out of time.
Laura: Brother, run and check the study.
Liam: I start running towards the direction that was described.
Laura: Let's go towards the under--
Taliesin: Very well.
Laura: Lead the way down.
Matt: "Very well."
Laura: No talking.
Sam: Wait, we're going down?
Travis: Yeah, we're not leaving Vax.
Laura: We're heading down. He's going to catch up.
Matt: She begins making her way towards the landing that leads to the stairway down, whereas you stealth off in that direction. You find your way around that corner. Go ahead and roll perception.
Liam: As I'm moving, by the way, it's minor, but I take out Clarota's (sniffs, groans) metallic cap and put it on, and I also whip out this other cloak that I've been looking at and whip it around. You're not here. And now continue on.
Matt: All right. So both will attune to you at your next short rest.
Liam: Yes, all right, excellent. It's fine.
Laura: Well, you've worn Clarota's thing before.
Liam: There's two things. Moving forward.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Liam: That is 22.
Matt: All right, as you make your way down the hallway, you hear what sounds like a muffled female voice from behind a distant doorway. Like a small cry in pain or worry.
Liam: Do I need to stealth again, or am I already stealthed?
Matt: You rolled stealth before this.
Liam: Yeah. It was like 23 before.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: So I'm going to move toward that sound. Carefully.
Matt: Okay. It leads down. There are three doorways on this side of the hallway. The central door there is where you hear the noise coming from.
Liam: Okay, I'm sticking my ear to the door, and I'm going to listen for a full minute to see what I hear.
Matt: You hear a little bit of quiet and a light sobbing. Then you hear another voice, a male voice, an older voice, just say quickly, "Shh! You be quiet until you're told to speak. They should be close."
Liam: I want to gently try the door handle.
Matt: Okay. It is not locked. It does turn.
Liam: I want to push it like one inch in and try to peek in.
Sam: Just the tip.
Laura: Don't.
Marisha: I'm having deja vu.
Laura: I know. We've been here before.
Matt: You glance inside the room, and it's a nice study, and there is a fireplace on one side that is part of a continuation of a two-story fireplace column that goes up through the castle on this side. There are shelves of books, there is a desk in the far corner, there's a couple of chairs laying around. From this side, from what you can see, in the center to the back of the room is an older gentleman wearing a breastplate. You can see his very short gray hair, a little bit of facial hair that's grown in but not to a full beard. It looks like it's been left to go on its own for a little while. And he's currently holding a young woman, roughly early twenties or so with dark brown hair with a couple streaks of white through the sides of the temple. Holding her by her hair with a dagger to her throat, saying, "Shh! Now. When I tell you, you'll say what I told you to say. Got it?" And you can see she has tears streaking down her face she's like (gasping).
Liam: I back up about five steps and very quietly say, Jenga. (laughter)
Liam: And I run at the door and I kick it open and throw at him.
Sam: Yeah!
Taliesin: Well, that happened.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: So we take off running towards him.
Marisha: Here we go. Jenga. Fucking asshole. (laughter)
Taliesin: Dick!
Marisha: It's a trap. It's such a trap.
Sam: Of course.
Matt: All right. (laughs) So you have a surprise round.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Come on, Sneak Attack.
Matt: Both those individuals right there. Go ahead and make your attack.
Liam: What am I looking at?
Matt: Okay, so as you burst in. You can see the man's holding, there's the desk behind him, right there. Papers and stuff scattered on there. There's some tables around with some chairs. There are these large bookshelves that hold this side and there's the fireplace in the far corner right there. Flames. Warming the room. There's a small chandelier on the ceiling that has magical light emanating from it that gives the room this warm glow. You don't care right now because you're throwing a fucking dagger.
Liam: Right. But he's behind her a bit, right?
Matt: Yeah, he's holding her right there with a dagger to her throat.
Liam: Well, I recently added the sharpshooter feat, so three-quarter and half cover means nothing to me. So I'm going to aim for his eye that's peeking out the side. All three are going right in his eye.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: So here's the first. The first is 24.
Matt: That'll hit.
Liam: Okay, the second is 26. As you can tell, I've been screaming monster sounds. My voice is a little ragged. 26 on the second.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: And 16 on the third.
Matt: 16 misses. But the first two strike true.
Liam: The first, it's three plus seven is ten. Plus 14, 20, 26, 29, 33, 39. That's the first one. And then the second one does four plus six is ten. Oh! But it's surprise, so the first one is doubled because it's automatically a crit.
Matt: All right, so what's that now?
Liam: Well, it was 39, so now it's 60, 78. For the first one. Ten for the second.
Taliesin: I love you.
Matt: Okay. So 88 points of damage. You just went 80 miles per hour on your first turn. As you kick the doors open. (whoosh) The first dagger, he sees it coming towards him for a second and attempts to dodge out of the way, and as he moves this eye out of the way, the dagger (impact noise) right into this one, he screams out (screaming) in pain as it just plunges into his eye socket. Not deep enough to actually hit any brain, but enough to definitely take that eye out as any sort of viable method. The second one just hits him in the shoulder and a reaction to that, Cassandra screams out, "No, run! It's a trap!" At which point, he takes his dagger and just runs it across her throat.
Laura: (softly) I don't think it's her. It's not her.
Matt: You see crimson start to pour down the front as she (choking). Go ahead and roll initiative.
Liam: All right. I'm going to do luck. Yeah. That's a 22.
Taliesin: Why would she be saying it's a trap if it's not her?
Laura: Could be a peasant.
Matt: All right. Okay. So you're going first. Also, at this point as you throw the dagger, you're still at the doorway and you hear what sounds like two sources of metal clanking together. You can't really see a source, but you hear other sounds in the room. What are you doing with your action?
Liam: I am running at him and stabbing the shit out of him.
Matt: Okay, as you cross this boundary, I need you to go ahead and immediately make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: I'll use luck again. Yeah.
Sam: That's two lucks.
Liam: That's 17 for constitution saving throw.
Matt: Great. All right, so as you step across the threshold of the room, the tile in front of you all of a sudden bursts in a flash of blue, painfully cold energy, like there's a concentrated moment of shredding ice.
Liam: Am I able to use evasion for that?
Matt: You can, technically.
Liam: So if I succeed, I take no damage.
Matt: Correct. Okay, so you take no damage. You dart across, just managing to use that momentum and your intensity toward this horrible moment that just happened before you. And you feel the explosion happen behind you. You just manage to pass beyond it. You rush forward to him. All right. And he's dropped her to the ground now. She's fallen onto her hands and knees.
Liam: I'm going into his guts.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: So first attack is a 25, second attack is a 20, and the third attack is a 26. One, two, three?
Matt: One, two, three.
Liam: Oh, and I'm going to turn the poison on for the poison dagger, which I'm going to use for the second.
Laura: Just flip the little switch.
Liam: Well, it just drips. So nine for the first, eight for the second, plus the poison is-- shit, I didn't copy it down here. I think it's 1d12. Let's say it's 1d12, because I can't remember. If anyone wants to correct me, they can. Five points of poison added to the five is 13. And then the last dagger is nine.
Matt: Okay. So as you rush up to him and shank him repeatedly in the side, the breastplates deflecting part of the blow, but you're managing to find openings in the side, and you go for a shoulder and jam it underneath his arm, through his ribcage, and he screams out (yelps) in pain, and you can see there's blood pouring out the side of his mouth. And the dagger's returned by now, but there's this giant gaping, bleeding wound on the side of his face where one of his eyes is completely ruined. He looks both surprised, angered, and very, very confused about the way things suddenly happened.
Liam: Hello.
Matt: All right so that's your turn.
Liam: That's it, I'm out.
Matt: Okay, he's going to go.
Taliesin: Goddamn it.
Liam: We're six seconds in, Taliesin.
Matt: First off, there were two sets of decorative armor on the sides of the wall that suddenly have filled with some sort of reddish arcane energy that gives them a solid physical form, and they both step off their pedestals and begin (heavy impact) making their way towards you. But before all that happens, Professor Anders in front of you, wounded and not looking terribly happy at the moment, is going to use his action to attempt to cast Confusion on you. So he goes to step back, and (grunting) just releases his hand in front of you as one functioning eye bores into you as he screams out. You can feel the pressure towards your head. Go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Liam: Wisdom, which I have advantage.
Matt: Well, wisdom saving throw because of that anyway, so.
Liam: That is a 20.
Matt: A 20? The effect shrugs off. Nothing on you. He is going to attempt to step back--
Liam: Oh, attack him.
Matt: So you get attack of opportunity on him.
Liam: Yeah, it's a 22.
Matt: 22? Okay, that does hit.
Liam: Eight.
Matt: Okay. He will use his bonus action and he-- let me look up the definition of it real fast. Okay, takes a bonus action as he steps back, "(grunts) Come. Take this inspiration to defeat my foe!" And he lends an inspiration dice to one of the armored creatures stepping forward towards you. Now it's their turn. Both these armored creatures pull out swords, and they lift up the shields that they had to their sides, and they rush into you from two sides right there. You see this as they rush up to you: they're not really touching the ground, they're gliding across it. So the first one is going to attempt to strike you with two attacks of its longsword. That is a 14?
Liam: No.
Matt: Second one is a 17.
Liam: No.
Matt: All right. The second one now is going to go ahead and take two swings at you. That is an 18.
Liam: Yeah, but I'll use uncanny dodge.
Matt: To reduce the damage by half?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so the first strike hits you for 13 points of slashing damage.
Liam: So, half that or all of that?
Matt: That'll be half that.
Liam: Half that. Okay, so seven.
Matt: There you go. And then that's going to be a 24 to hit.
Liam: That hits, yeah.
Matt: And this is not halved. Okay, that's 12 points of slashing damage.
Liam: All right.
Matt: Okay, now to Cassandra's turn. She is on the ground just spilling out her life essence onto the ground. She's clutching at her throat and is like (gasping). You hear that horrible sucking sound of her feeling her life drain from her. She's not unconscious, but she doesn't have long for this world. All right, that brings us to the top of the round. The rest of you guys are now rushing, I assume, dash motion, making your way as fast as you can to that side. Due to distance, you would all get to the end of this hallway, about there.
Taliesin: Is that including sprint?
Matt: Well, the dash action, yeah.
Taliesin: That's full dash?
Matt: This is your movement and then dash action, you guys, because you guys were down in this area, heading down the stairs. You just made it up and over. And this is Ripley. We'll use that for Ripley for now. Everyone else roll initiative. We're in a new combat round.
Taliesin: What the hell!?
Marisha: Oh! Percy's pissed.
Taliesin: I Percy'd again.
Marisha: He Percy'd.
Matt: Who got him that dice? (laughter)
Travis: The golden snitch is powerful.
Taliesin: No, I was on Group Hug last week with somebody else's dice, and it was comedy.
Laura: It's just you, Taliesin.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: You are the anti-Wheaton.
Taliesin: I'm the anti-Wheaton.
Matt: If you guys were to play in the same group, all RPGs would fold into themselves and no longer exist. It's like the end of Timecop. It'll be terrible. Okay, so initiatives. We have 25 to 20?
Taliesin: 28.
Matt: 28.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21. Remember your advantage, by the way.
Travis: That's the second roll.
Matt: All right, so Percy at the top.
Travis: Feral instinct.
Matt: All right, and you were at-- I think your initiative was 20?
Liam: I don't remember. It was early 20s.
Matt: Early 20s, yeah, so it'd be Percy, Vax. 20 to 15?
Marisha: 13.
Sam: 19.
Matt: 19.
Marisha: Oh wait, sorry. Might have jumped the gun a bit there. I'm excited. Sorry. I'm bringing up the ranks anyway, I think. It's fine.
Matt: Keyleth, all right. Vex, what'd you get?
Laura: 11.
Matt: 11.
Liam: I'm Vax.
Matt: I know, I said Vex! I got it right this time!
Liam: Oh, you're from California.
Laura: Yeah. (laughing)
Matt: Technically, I'm from Florida. All right, so Percy, you're up first.
Taliesin: Can I drag Ripley with me?
Matt: You can, but you'll be moving half movement.
Taliesin: Fuck.
Travis: Leave her. Somebody else--
Taliesin: So as my bonus action before anything happens I'm going to tell her, she lives, you show us where the entrance to the caverns are, you walk with your things. And run.
Laura: She was trying to set us up in this trap. You do understand that?
Marisha: Oh yeah, she's all about this fucking shit.
Matt: Full movement?
Taliesin: Full movement.
Matt: Okay, that's your full turn there. All right, that ends your turn, Percy.
Liam: I have one healing potion left, and I'm going to take it and stick it into this girl's mouth and empty it and maybe drip a little on her neck as well.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Marisha: Maybe hold her neck. Make sure it goes down.
Matt: Well, you have to roll to heal. You pull back, and it's a really unsettling thing as you pull up her head to try and feed her the potion.
Liam: It's 2d4?
Matt: It's just a regular healing potion?
Liam: Yeah, regular. It's the lowest of the rung. Moderate? I think it's called moderate?
Matt: Sorry, got it right here. That's 2d4 plus two.
Liam: So four. Six. And then I want to step in front of her, between her and that one, and then stab the one.
Matt: Okay, as you take the potion, it's a messy process. You get most of it in her, but some of it drips on the ground, but the wound seems to close. All the blood goes away on the ground around her neck from the splashing of the potion, which has vanished entirely, and you can see she's (gasping).
Laura: That's good.
Matt: She's right on the edge, but she's looking pretty rough.
Liam: So is that the bonus action, or is that the action?
Matt: That was your action.
Liam: Action, okay. By the way, I'm realizing I didn't click my boots, so I did one two three before, and the third one missed, so luckily that worked out, but I'm not clicking those.
Matt: Thank you for the reminder. So used to dagger, dagger, dagger. I'm like, "Wait, no."
Liam: So I just step between them, and that's all I can do, yeah?
Matt: Okay, so you move into there, great. That's your turn.
Liam: No, I mean between her and the closest one to her.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, we've got this new thing now. That's so much better.
Matt: For those who don't know, we have a top-down camera for the players, which is really helpful for them to know--
Laura: What's going on.
Matt: So you move.
Liam: I was hoping to stand in front of her, yeah. Like that.
Matt: So you push her aside and get in between the two, okay. Cool, that ends your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Dead sprint after Percy.
Matt: Okay, and your speed is?
Travis: 50.
Liam: (heavy footsteps)
Taliesin: (heavy footsteps)
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: What's up, Grog?
Matt: You can get all the way up into here, but that's all you can do this turn. Yeah, so you're (heavy footsteps) bounding down the hall. You push past Percy and rush into the room, and you see a young girl on the ground, doubled over, barely conscious. You see Vax stepping in front of these weird, glowing armored creatures, and at the back of the room, there's a man with bleeding, gaping eye socket.
Travis: What the fuck did you do?
Liam: Welcome to the party.
Matt: All right. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'm up? I run as fast as my little legs will take me. 25.
Matt: There you go.
Sam: I can't see them, so I'll just inspire-- Who's going to get in there next? Who's behind me? Can I inspire people that I can't see?
Matt: I think they have to be in your sight.
Taliesin: You can see me, though whether or not you want to inspire me at this point is definitely debatable.
Matt: You can inspire somebody else in the hallway, if you'd like.
Sam: All right. They can't even make it in the next turn, right?
Marisha: No, but we'll keep it.
Sam: Sure. I will inspire Vex, behind me, and I'll say, (sings) Arrows and bows, they fire at our foes and kill them, and they make them ghosts. They won't let go.
Sam: (sing) Arrows and bows!
Laura: (sing) Arrows and bows!
Matt: As the beat hits you, you feel yourself a little more sure shot with any arrows. Take your d10 inspiration die.
Liam: Forearms go (explosion noises). (laughter)
Matt: All righty. So, that brings us to-- all right. Professor Anders, now, is taking his turn.
Marisha: Professor Anders.
Sam: Professor Anders.
Marisha: Professor Anders.
Liam: Mr. Anderson.
Matt: He sees this giant creature in the room looming and he reaches up and closes up one eye and goes, "You. Do this for me." And as he looks at you for a second, he releases another spell and you feel a familiar arcane grasp begin to curl over the back of your mind. Go ahead and roll a wisdom saving throw with advantage because of your Heroes' Feast.
Travis: All right, okay.
Liam: Come on, baby. One more time.
Travis: 14.
Matt: 14. Your brain, not tempered against these types of magics and having previously failed you before. You feel your will no longer become your own as now you are an instrument of destruction controlled by Professor Anders. You've been Dominated.
Taliesin: Damn it!
Laura: Fuck!
Sam: Oh no. Dominate goliath.
Laura: We've got to kill that motherfucker!
Matt: Okay. I mean, he looks to you and goes, "Kill that one!" And points to Vax, and you look down at Vax with a grin as the blood-letting you've wanted so bad, your target lies before you.
Sam: Hulk versus Wolverine! (laughter)
Matt: Ending Anders's turn--
Taliesin: Remember what he did to your beard.
Travis: I know, is it me grinning, or is it dominated Grog? (laughter)
Matt: Moves to here.
Taliesin: Hulk versus Wolverine, man. I'm excited by that.
Matt: Both of these horrors move and shift around now at this moment to get on each sides of you, giving them both a flanking bonus. Now it's four strikes, longsword against you, with advantage. Double eights. Can't roll shit!
Liam: Why advantage? I'm just curious. Give it to me, but what's the advantage from?
Matt: They have advantage against you because they moved into flanking position.
Liam: Because they're in flanking. Got it.
Matt: Which, for those who're curious about it, it is an optional rule in the DMG. It exists. Second attack. Three and a four. I can't roll!
Taliesin: (sucking sounds)
Matt: So this guy just whiffs with both of his weapon strikes.
Marisha: You're sucking his energy?
Taliesin: (raspy) I have your power.
Matt: Natural 20 on the next strike.
Laura: Spoke too soon.
Marisha: Spoke too soon.
Matt: Two natural 20s.
Taliesin: Damn it!
Matt: It was a miss and a natural 20 on the first attack, and then a natural 20 on the first roll of the second attack.
Taliesin: Goddamn it. I'm sorry.
Marisha: Spoke too soon.
Matt: So you take on the first hit--
Marisha: You mock fate, fate punches you in the mouth.
Matt: That would be 16 points of slashing damage, and 20 points of slashing damage with the second strike, so a total of 36 points of slashing damage. And you can feel this strange, angry vibrating growl coming from within this unhallowed armor that floats before you. That ends their go. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: I'm running like hell. Running, running, running. Can I see? Can I peek around the corner just to see?
Matt: You can just peek around the corner and see the circumstance.
Marisha: Can I see Cassandra?
Matt: You do, yes.
Marisha: Healing Word.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll.
Sam: Do you know it's her?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Either way. Whoever it is.
Sam: Do you know what she looks like?
Travis: Just do what you're going to do.
Laura: Just do it.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: Healing Word.
Taliesin: Family resemblance.
Marisha: Family resemblance.
Matt: I'd say given the circumstances, you have an inkling that someone's in danger there. And the calling of Jenga. So go for it.
Marisha: I'll cast it-- no, I'm just going to keep it at 1st level for now. I'm going to save my higher-level ones for Cure Wounds, so I'm going to cast it at 1st level, so that's 1d4 plus my spellcaster. Three. That's not too bad. No, sorry. 16? No, 13.
Matt: 13? Okay, good to know. All righty. That's your turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: So I'm with Anna. Trinket-- I tell him to hold onto her and drag her along with us.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: So he clamps down on her arm.
Matt: So one, two. He's going to attempt to grapple her. Go ahead and roll an athletics check with advantage because she's not expecting it.
Laura: 16?
Matt: Okay. Trinket grabs onto the scruff of her coat and begins pushing forward. They both get the rest of half of his movement because he's forcing her forward. That's as far as he can get.
Laura: But I can keep running? I can run all the way up?
Matt: What's your speed? Is it 30?
Laura: 30.
Matt: You get about there, right at the edge.
Laura: So I can shoot an arrow?
Matt: No, that's your movement and then your dash action to get there.
Laura: Okay, cool.
Matt: All right. Ripley is just going to stay put for the time being. She's held by a bear and being pushed along. She's just "Ugh."
Taliesin: With no weapons and no armor.
Matt: Leather armor, basically.
Taliesin: Leather armor, yeah.
Matt: Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to run in. I can move six, right?
Matt: You can move six squares, yes.
Taliesin: One, two. Can I get a good view of Professor Anders and maybe get a little cover from the dining room table?
Matt: You can a little bit, yeah.
Taliesin: All right, I'll take my cover. I'm going to pull out--
Matt: As you walk in, around the corner you can see these armor attacking Grog, his axe forward at these two armored entities floating in the air. You see Anders in the corner, clutching a hand over one eye with blood streaking down the face, a number of wounds bleeding out from the armor. Already been a rough day for him, and your eye slips down, and for the first time in a long time, you see on the ground before you, clutching her throat, no wound or blood splatter but clutching her throat and breathing heavily, your sister Cassandra. And you look back up at Anders and you feel the burning rage begin to billow up inside you, and as you walk in the room towards the center of the table, you guys who are able to see the room, you see now, from outside of his sleeves, outside from under his coat, there's blackish purple smoke beginning to (whoosh) billow out from behind.
Marisha: Does it seem more extreme than it has been in the past?
Matt: It seemed pretty extreme in the past. It just started; you don't know. Go for it.
Taliesin: Bonus, I pull off my hat of disguise, drop it on the floor. And I'm going to just unload at that motherfucker.
Matt: As you pull off the hat, your image shifts fully to Percy, at which point Anders looks back and sees this source of smoke and glances over. His hand falls away at a moment of realization, eye goes wide. "Percy..."
Taliesin: Shot one.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Oh, for the love of god!
Marisha: Oh, when it counts.
Sam: (ricochet noise)
Marisha: (ricochet noise)
Matt: In the frustration, the rage and such, you pull up your gun and as you go to fire, the bullet gets caught in the chamber and it almost ejects the entire barrel from the front of it. It's not too difficult to repair, but it definitely upsets the current flow.
Taliesin: I'm going to attempt to repair it really quickly. Trying to remember how to do that because I hate it. (mumbling)
Matt: Is it an action or is it an attack to do? Should say under the--
Taliesin: Action, shit.
Matt: Yeah, so you have to use your next turn to try and repair it.
Taliesin: (sighs) So I'm just going to sit and scream a little bit. (shouting)
Matt: Okay, you can see that this whole moment here, as the smoke pours out from the front of the gun, you yell out angrily and there is this unnatural bassy reverb from your scream that shakes the room. Anders actually takes a step back from this and is looking about the room, and finds himself basically trapped in the far corner of his study.
Marisha: Oh, you better not!
Matt: That ends your turn.
Taliesin: That's my turn.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: I'm going to use disengage, and I'm going to hop over Cassandra towards Anders and stab him in the other eye.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: First attack is 21.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Second attack is 17.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Okay, ten on the first, ten on the second.
Matt: Okay. Needs to make concentration checks to see if he can maintain his Dominate. Against ten damage? That succeeds, and yeah, that succeeds. So he maintains concentration of his spell, but both daggers, you just run up and stab him. This angry grunt under your breath with each stab and you can feel the armor itself is now warm with the pooling blood from the wounds that you gave him before. He's looking pretty rough.
Liam: So, question? I asked if I could hit the eye. Did I hit the eye?
Matt: Unfortunately, no. It's one of those things where a Sneak Attack would be an eye shot for this one. You go and try and stab towards the eye, and he pulls away; he knows what's coming and uses that inertia to jam it into his side and stab a second time in there. So yeah, no purchase in the eye, unfortunately.
Liam: Okay. And I'm squared off right in front of him.
Matt: Yeah, just right in front of him. That ends your turn. Grog.
Travis: So when you're dominated, does that mean charmed?
Matt: Essentially, you have to follow his orders. He's not directly, specifically controlling you right now, but he told you, "Attack him," so you have to use all the things at your disposal to now attack him.
Travis: Okay. I can't try and break the domination? Or rage?
Matt: Nope. You get a saving throw at the end of your turn.
Travis: I'm not raging.
Matt: You're not raging.
Travis: So I only get two.
Matt: One. You step over Cassandra, (impact noise) stepping on the back of her leg, and find your way right there, which is flanking him between Anders, so you have advantage on both your attacks.
Laura: Shit.
Travis: It's a three.
Laura: That's good.
Travis: 21.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Second attack.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Really trying not to enjoy this.
Matt: (laughs) With your flaming war hammer.
Travis: 18 for the first one.
Matt: 18 points of slashing damage. No, sorry, bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Bludgeoning, yeah. And fire. 20, 21.
Matt: 21 points of bludgeoning and fire damage with the second strike.
Liam: I am on my feet, but I am swaying back and forth.
Matt: Unexpectedly, these two titanic slams hit you from behind. The first one throws you into Anders for a second. Anders then pushes you away, and as you are still reeling from the impact, you look up and see the hammer come down, and (whack) you move your head out in time, preventing you from being squished, but the impact hits your shoulder and the side of your neck, and your whole body crumples into itself. You cry out in pain instinctively, just (screams) from the hit. And your whole world blurs for a second as you're barely keeping yourself on your feet. Grog, that ends your turn. You can make another saving throw with advantage to try and shrug the effect.
Travis: Yeah. Add wisdom right?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: 19?
Matt: 19. With that, the momentary controlled bloodshed fades. Your mind becomes your own, and what little bit of remorse you may feel for the battered Vax in front of you, you can't help but laugh a little bit. But then you turn your attention to the one who bent your will, and your rage begins to swell up inside you. So that ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I continue my long journey into the room.
Matt: You just get past there, and you can see into the room. You have visual on, yeah, pretty much everything in the room from there.
Sam: So I have to make a ranged shot if I'm to do anything.
Matt: Correct, yeah.
Sam: What do I see? Can I see how rough Vax is?
Matt: At a glance, it's hard to tell.
Liam: I'm bleeding out my mouth.
Matt: He's also facing away from you.
Sam: Looks normal to me.
Matt: You see Grog and Vax facing off the guy in the corner. You see two of these large armored entities.
Sam: Okay, I'll go for them.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Wand of Magic Missiles. And I'll shoot three at the one at the left. That's the first charge, and then use three additional charges on the one on the right.
Matt: Okay. How many charges were restored in the wand from your last long rest?
Sam: I roll every day, and I restored five and I had used five, so it's back to normal. I have seven total.
Matt: So you're casting three on one and then--
Sam: An additional three on the other.
Matt: Okay, go for it. So that's 3d4 plus three to each one. Go for it.
Sam: Right, 3d4. Okay.
Matt: (magical sound effects) Releasing the wand on both flicks of your wrist, you can see these bursts of arcane energy swirl around and slam into each one of these creatures.
Sam: 3d4 plus three? Is that right? Is that how it works, Matt?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Okay, so five (mumbles), eight. Lame. And (mumbles) nine, no wait. Yes, nine.
Matt: Okay. All right. (explosion noise) The impact hits. You see the armor shake for a second and look angered and frustrated for what a faceless arcane entity in armor could, and both heads just go (shhhh) and look in your direction simultaneously. That ends your turn.
Sam: Oh, and I will inspire Grog. (sings) This is the dawning of the age of a-Grog-ius. Age of a-Grog-ius. A-Grog-ius! (laughter)
Travis: d10?
Matt: The words are lost on you, but it's a nice theme. You take a d10, yeah.
Travis: Not quite my jam, but I'll still take it.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Anders, frustrated by the whole circumstance and on the cusp of a really bad circumstance, is going to attempt to cast Dimension Door.
Marisha: I knew it. I knew he was going to do that.
Liam: Do I get an attack? A reaction attack?
Matt: Not unless you have-- there's a feat that lets you do that.
Liam: No.
Matt: Yeah, I think it's mage slayer.
Liam: I don't have that.
Matt: Okay, all right.
Sam: Do I see him?
Matt: Yeah, you see him.
Sam: I take out my broken shawm and I (piercing whistle). And I cast Counterspell on him.
Matt: Right, because you took that when you leveled up. (cheering)
Matt: All right. Oh lord bards. Shit.
Travis: (laughs) Shit.
Sam: Wait, I have to tell a level, don't I?
Matt: Yeah, you can tell me what level.
Sam: Do I know, because he's a bard, what he's doing?
Matt: You are very familiar with the spell. It is a 4th-level spell.
Sam: Then I cast it at fourth level.
Matt: Okay. Then there is no roll. With that, he takes a moment to finish casting. You see there's a moment where this bit of purple arcane energy, familiar to most of you as Scanlan's escapes, begins to sparkle behind him and as he goes to step into it, the shawm shrieks out into the room, he (groans) reaches up and covers his eye as it almost seems to be shrill to his head and cause the pain to pulse and the doorway just slams behind him. (panting)
Sam: Uh-uh, that door is locked, motherfucker! (laughter)
Sam: Get used to it, because I am! (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, that's his turn. That was his action. He's going to use his bonus action to say, "Come to my aid! Quickly!" He's going to put another inspiration die to the other armor. And that's going to end his turn. It's now their turn. They are both going to come around. This one is just going to move around Grog; no attack of opportunity because it's still in your melee. This one is going to step into range from over here. This one is going to turn and go for Percy. Sees this billowing as you're stuck there trying to fix the gun, and just rushing towards you with its shield forward, its horrible, jagged longsword in the air arcing towards you. Two strikes versus you. That'll be a 19?
Liam: That hits.
Matt: Okay, first strike, you take nine points of slashing damage.
Liam: I'm down.
Matt: So you go down. Second strike, because it's still going for you, hits automatically. It's an auto critical. You fail two death saving throws.
Liam: That's it?
Matt: That ends its turn. This one is now going for you, Percy. First strike. That would be a nine.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: It's going to use its inspiration die. Add nine to that, so 18.
Taliesin: 18? That's my armor class.
Matt: (evil laugh) Bards! I'm sorry. I don't get to use them very often. So that is 11 points of slashing damage. And the other strike-- oh, that's a natural 18, so yeah, that will be... cocked. Oh, only eight points of slashing damage.
Taliesin: So 19 points of slashing damage, total?
Matt: Correct. (whooshing) And it's painful, but not a huge thing at this point. You're so focused right now on the weapon. All right. That ends their turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay, can I see Vax down? Which one is he on the ground?
Matt: Vax is right there. You see him get slashed from behind, fall to the ground, and you see it raise a blade again and jam it into his torso, pull it out, and there's a streak of blood that just spatters across the ceiling from the force of the arc.
Taliesin: Yeah, I think you saw that.
Marisha: Okay. So I'm going to move around, tuck in the door a bit.
Matt: Okay, so you move in and you see this. As you rush into the room, you see this arc happening.
Marisha: Can I tuck right here? God, I'm shaking. Yeah, right behind that door.
Matt: Right there, yeah. That'll be pretty much your movement to get there.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to duck down, crouch on the floor. I'm going to cast-- first I'm going to-- god I'm so nervous-- I'm going to use Healing Word on Vax, and heal that motherfucker.
Matt: At what level?
Marisha: You're like down down, right?
Laura: He's unconscious.
Liam: And I-- there wasn't even any rolls for that, right?
Laura: No.
Matt: If you're unconscious and a creature hits you, you automatically fail a death saving throw and if it's a critical hit, which if you're unconscious a hit is an automatic critical, it's technically two death saving throws.
Liam: Yeah, and just to understand the whole breakdown, but where do the three rolls come in?
Laura: If nobody hits you--
Liam: Oh, if nobody hits, got it.
Matt: Yeah, if nobody hits you and it's your turn, you roll to see if you-- but if something keeps hitting you while you're down? Can kill you pretty quick.
Liam: Got it.
Matt: Like two hits.
Marisha: But he just hit zero hit points, so whatever I bring will bring him over, correct?
Matt: Yeah, and your death saves go away. It's per turn. Per time you go down.
Marisha: Okay, I'm just going to do a-- I'm sorry, a level one Healing Word for right now.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Yes, which gives you 12 hit points. And then I'm going to use my bonus action to cast Grasping Vine, and I'm going to take the vine and I'm going to wrap it around--
Matt: Your source?
Marisha: Huh?
Matt: Which source?
Marisha: Next to me.
Matt: Okay. So right here?
Marisha: I guess, yes.
Matt: Okay so, out of the wood, a vine-- or it's not wood, actually. This would be a stone wall. So out of a crack in the wall, little bit of material begins to form into a giant vine that forms next to you. What are you doing with it?
Marisha: I want to wrap it around Cassandra's feet, her ankle, and I want to pull her toward me.
Matt: You pull her over to the side and she gets pulled across the ground, and she's on her back now looking up. Her eyes are a little starry-eyed, but she's (panting). Looks very confused, and her eyes are still adjusting to the whole circumstance.
Marisha: And I say, "Hi! Just hang on." And that's my turn.
Matt: Yep. All right. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. So I saw him go down.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Does it look like he's awake now to me? I'm mean, it was all happening very quickly.
Matt: You have no idea. This all happens very quickly. You just saw your brother take a huge--
Laura: I scream and I run towards him.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I slide down on my knees and slide across the room and try to cast Healing Word the minute-- or cast Cure Wounds the minute I get to him.
Matt: You won't get close enough to do it, unfortunately.
Laura: If I slide down and slide?
Matt: Make an acrobatics check. For this circumstance, due to the circumstances with your brother being on the ground, I'll let this be a little more intense.
Sam: With inspiration.
Laura: With inspiration. That is-- wait, hold on.
Liam: Acrobatics.
Laura: Acrobatics?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Oh, that's good. 17?
Matt: 17, all right. With that, you rush forward, just seeing this tunnel vision image of Vax on the ground, blood pooling under his form. You dart forward, slam on your knees and begin preparing the spell as you skid across the stone floor of the study. You reach out and your hands meet his form, stopping you in the process just as the surge of healing energy jolts through his body. So you can go ahead and cast it on him.
Laura: Okay, so I'm going to cast that at 3rd level. So that's 3d8. Where are my d8s? That was the worst roll! Nine!
Matt: So you heal nine hit points.
Liam: That's good.
Laura: That's okay, because I slid to you.
Liam: It was amazing. I'll never forget it.
Matt: (laughs) Okay, that's your turn.
Laura: Yeah, and Trinket keeps dragging her.
Matt: Forward? Okay. That ends your turn. All right, go ahead and roll an athletics check for Trinket.
Laura: Right, okay. It's going to count even though it slipped out of my hand. It's eight.
Matt: Eight? Okay. Trinket, holding onto the scruff of Ripley's neck. Ripley then tugs away from the grip. Reaches into the pouch she had earlier. As a bonus action throws down a small rock that (explosion noise) fills this entire tunnel here with a 20 by 20 fog cloud, apparently. And now that she's disengaged, she's going to...
Marisha: She smoke-bombed out.
Laura: She ain't got no weapons.
Matt: Nope. Trinket does get an attack of opportunity on her as she runs past.
Sam: Yeah, Trinket does. Come on, Trinket.
Laura: All right, he's going to bite her. Can he cannonball her as an attack of opportunity?
Matt: No, unfortunately.
Laura: No? Not so much?
Matt: No, sorry.
Laura: Nine.
Matt: Nine. All right
Laura: Oh wait! Oh, no. I've got to roll for attack first, huh?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: That was not what I was doing. So that's 21.
Matt: That hits, yeah.
Laura: Okay, good. That's way better.
Matt: She has no armor.
Laura: Oh, I don't know what I'm doing. What is going on? I never attack with Trinket. 13.
Matt: Okay, got it.
Taliesin: Cautionary tale in there somewhere.
Matt: She runs past. The whole area is obscured for Trinket. Trinket for the moment really has no idea really where she went as she rushed past, and bit out and is now giving out this (bear growl) notification growl sound, but in the chaos right now, it's not catching your attention as your brother nearly died before you.
Laura: Right.
Matt: All right, that ends her turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to break-- first off, I'm going to fix my gun.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make your roll.
Taliesin: I'm going to make my roll. Come on. What do I have to roll? (muttering) I hit the difficulty. Does that--
Matt: You hit it, then yeah. With the creature looming there, you manage to bend it back into place. You get it aligned as best as you can. That's your action, though.
Taliesin: If that had been a slightly bigger fuck-up, that would have been-- oh god! Okay.
Matt: So your gun's functional, but that's your action.
Taliesin: I'm going to use an action surge anyway, so it doesn't matter.
Matt: Yes, you are. Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to break off from this guy, and I'm going to rush towards Professor.
Matt: Okay, gets an attack of opportunity on you.
Taliesin: Go ahead. Don't care.
Matt: Guy rolls a 14.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: So you just (whoosh) duck under it instinctually. It comes toward you. Eyes forward, you duck underneath the blade.
Taliesin: I push him in the face. I don't care.
Matt: Okay, you get right up to there, and you can see Anders backing away as you approach.
Taliesin: I'm going to unload in him.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's 21 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: That's 25 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: That's a natural 20.
Marisha: There is Percy!
Travis: What the fuck?
Matt: Anti-Wheaton.
Taliesin: Okay, let's see, that's 11.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: All righty. This is the critical.
Taliesin: Yep, this is the critical which is seven, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20 with fire damage.
Matt: Okay. How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Taliesin: How close to him do I get? And this was without smoke damage, I might add.
Matt: You can get one more step up there. You can take the shots as you're stepping towards him, unloading.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm unloading as I walk towards him.
Matt: So the first one (gunshot) blasts out the shoulder. You can see the bone exposed, the metal breastplate sundered by the bullet, as he backs up (gasping) As you're walking towards him, he begins shouting, "Percival, you disappoint us all. All you had to do was die like a good de Rolo."
Taliesin: Traitor! And I've got two more shots. Next shot.
Matt: This one (gunshot) into his chest, and you can see the actual breastplate bends inward to the wound and he's (choking noise) spitting out blood from his mouth as he bends forward. "This land has a greater destiny. You and that fool Ripley, you place your faith in toys and dust. You seek the transient truths."
Taliesin: How close am I to him at this point?
Matt: You're stepping up to him.
Taliesin: Perfect.
Matt: And as you're doing this, as you're pull the mask down, he says, "I die to rise again. We are his blood."
Taliesin: I put my gun in his mouth to shut him the fuck up. "You're the face I saw when murder entered my heart. This is your doing." And I pull the trigger.
Matt: With that, a resounding blast (explosion noise) echoes through the room. The back of his head just scatters across the wall behind him. The top of his head folds in a little bit from the lack of a substantial base, and he tumbles backwards, releasing the gun with a limp (splat) onto the ground behind. You're still holding the Pepperbox in front of you, hands shaking. As you hold it there, looking at it, you can see there's a flash of purple energy across the barrel that has Anders's name across it and (fluttering noise) the name burns away, leaving the barrel blank.
Taliesin: (heavy breathing)
Matt: Smoke begins to subside a little bit. It's still there, but it seems like at the moment, it has this release aspect to it.
Taliesin: That's my turn.
Matt: Yeah, that is your turn. Vax you're up.
Liam: How close are the suits of armor to me? I can't tell.
Matt: There's one over here, and there's one-- technically it's right next to you.
Liam: Right next to me? And am I still prone?
Matt: You're still prone.
Liam: So how much movement does it take to--
Matt: Half your movement.
Liam: Half my movement.
Sam: Don't give him an attack of opportunity.
Liam: No, I'm going to get up, and I'm going to use disengage.
Matt: As a bonus action, okay.
Liam: Yeah, and I'm going to skip back into the corner, and at this point I can throw one dagger at that suit of armor, so I'm going to do that.
Matt: Yes, you can.
Liam: That is 19.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: I have no voice left. That is an 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage, all righty. Great, okay. Let's see here now. That ends your turn. I had the list down here. All right. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Am I flanked by two suits of armor or just one?
Matt: Nope, there's just one right next to you.
Travis: I'll turn to him and rage.
Matt: Okay. Regular rage.
Travis: Regular rage, and swing away.
Liam: Classic rage, we call it.
Travis: Classic rage.
Laura: Good old classic rage.
Travis: 14?
Matt: 14 hits.
Travis: Nice. And 25.
Matt: Both hit, yeah.
Laura: You get three hits.
Travis: Nah, just two.
Laura: I thought rage-- oh.
Travis: Believe me, I know. 17 with the fire damage. First one.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 18 on the second one.
Matt: Okay, cool. So as you slam your hammer twice into it, the armor dents. You can see now, the energy that's holding it together is flickering, almost like the arcane entity that resides within it is having a hard time keeping itself in physical form. All right. That end your turn, unless you want to move or do anything else.
Travis: Nope.
Sam: Did you hit?
Matt: Scanlan. You're up.
Travis: Yeah, twice.
Sam: Okay. Oh, me? Oh man, I can't do anything against these fuckers.
Marisha: Yes, you can.
Liam: You're Scanlan Shorthalt.
Marisha: Believe!
Sam: All right. I'll enter the room, I suppose. Just a little. Right there.
Marisha: Just the tip.
Sam: Just the tip, and shit. I don't want to waste anything on these fuckers. Okay, let's see here. I'll just do-- 2d8. All right, I'll run up. Actually, a little bit closer to the guy closest to me.
Matt: Okay. You'll get into melee with him if you do.
Sam: What does that mean?
Matt: Means if you want to do any ranged attack or spell attack roll, you would have disadvantage on it, but otherwise it has no effect.
Laura: He can attack you, though, because he's right next to you.
Sam: He won't be for long.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: So I get up close in, like five feet away, and then I'll just Thunderwave him.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I do that thing where frat boys do the chest bump.
Marisha: Like, "Come at me, bro?"
Sam: Yeah. (grunts)
Marisha: That's awesome.
Travis: (quietly) We did do that.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: That's just like 2d8.
Matt: Yeah, okay.
Liam: Roll two d8s.
Matt: Is this the 1st-level Thunderwave?
Sam: I believe it is, yes.
Matt: Okay, so makes a constitution saving throw. No, he rolled a natural four, so it takes 2d8 thunder damage and he is pushed over the table, and then would fall over if it wasn't now drifting above the ground a few inches. Rights itself, but it did push it away from you. Roll 2d8 damage.
Sam: I did. It's only nine points of damage.
Matt: Nine points of thunder damage against that helmed creature. All right, that brings us to their turn. This creature you just slammed into is going to rush back towards you. This one's going to turn and attack you, Grog. Two strikes against you. That is a 15.
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Sorry. 25. Rolled an 18 naturally.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And that is a 21.
Travis: Both hit.
Matt: Okay, so you take six points of slashing damage, halved to three, and nine points slashing damage, halved to five. So eight points of slashing damage total. Two strikes against you, Scanlan. That is an 18.
Sam: Oh, yes. That hits.
Matt: Okay, and then a 12.
Sam: Hey, that misses!
Matt: So you take-- that's seven plus 11 points of slashing damage. (whoosh) As it goes to strike a second time, you see the second blow coming and just duck out of the way. That ends their go. Next up is Keyleth.
Marisha: So there are two guys alive right now?
Matt: Correct, yes.
Marisha: One's on Scanlan.
Matt: One's on Grog. The one on Grog is looking a little rough. The one near Scanlan's doing okay.
Marisha: How's Cassandra looking next to me?
Matt: She's fine. There's no blood. There's nothing; the wound is gone entirely. But other than that, she looks fine.
Marisha: Looks fine. Okay, I've got my Grasping Vine still up. I'm going to wrap it around the guy that's close to Scanlan and just yank him off of Scanlan.
Matt: Okay. This pulls him over Scanlan's form and slams him right next to Cassandra.
Marisha: Okay, and then I will just go, oh! And pop him with my staff.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: You can hit things?
Marisha: Yeah, I got a big old staff, yo! I'm not great at it, but I can do it. Oh, that's not bad. 16.
Matt: 16 does not hit, unfortunately.
Marisha: Aw. (ping)
Sam: He's got armor.
Marisha: It sounded nice, though.
Sam: It did.
Marisha: Kind of resonated a little.
Matt: Shakes off of it for a second. All right, so that ends your turn?
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: All righty. That brings us to Vex.
Laura: So I'm still down on my knees.
Matt: You're still down on your knees. Your brother got up and rushed off, he seems okay, (panting) taking a breath for himself.
Laura: I look up at Percy who is covered in smoke, and I grab his hand and I say, "Percival, how are you?"
Matt: His head slowly turns towards you, the mask still on. You can see his eyes just barely through the glistening circular glass slots where he looks through. The smoke still billowing up from underneath, the head slowly turns towards you.
Taliesin: Fine.
Laura: "Darling, take the mask off," and I--
Taliesin: I don't have a turn yet.
Matt: No.
Laura: And I shoot at the guy that's attacking Grog.
Matt: Okay. He is technically in melee with you, so you get disadvantage on these strikes unless you want to move away.
Laura: Does he get an attack of opportunity, though, if I scooch back?
Matt: He would, unless-- he didn't take one against you when you ran back because you disengaged, so yes, he would.
Laura: Okay, yeah.
Matt: Okay, so you move back a step. That is a 21.
Laura: Hits.
Matt: Okay, you take nine points of slashing damage as you reach back. The creature (whoosh) arcs with its sword and manages to strike you.
Laura: Bastard!
Matt: Roll for your attacks.
Laura: Okay, that is a 26 and a 23.
Matt: Both hit.
Laura: I didn't Hunter's Mark him, because I'm brilliant. Yes! 15, 30, 34 points.
Matt: 34 points of damage for both?
Laura: Yeah, two eights. Plus 14. Plus my bracers.
Matt: Right. You pull the arrows out and launch them both simultaneously, two arrows in one notch; release them both. One slams into the armor. That one goes underneath the helmet, and as it strikes you hear this horrible echoing (screeching) screech that echoes as the armor (thud) falls to the ground.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: You can take the rest of your movement, if you like.
Laura: I stand up.
Matt: Well, you were standing up to move back.
Laura: I scooched back, right?
Matt: Unless you wanted to be like--
Laura: Yeah I wanted to be like--
Matt: Okay, so you pulled back while on the ground. Release the arrows.
Laura: Yeah, like up into them.
Matt: There you go. All right. Stand up, brush yourself off. That ends your go.
Laura: And Trinket isn't allowed to move any at all?
Matt: Trinket can, if you want.
Laura: Can he run after her?
Matt: Yep. Rushes out. Will get there. Rushes through the fog and looks over and sees her right there. Okay. That ends your turn, and now it's her turn. She goes into a full dash and takes off.
Taliesin: Does Trinket get an attack of opportunity for that?
Matt: Trinket does get attack of opportunity.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Come on, Trinket.
Travis: Scratch her up.
Laura: That's in the corner. I can't really say.
Travis: Oh, you piece of shit
Liam: (clicks his teeth together)
Laura: Don't do that. I hate that sound. (laughter)
Matt: So what did you roll?
Laura: That's a 12.
Liam: Good to know.
Matt: 12?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: 12 does not hit, unfortunately.
Laura: No, it doesn't.
Matt: Even with no armor, she's a pretty quick one. She ducks below and bolts down the hallway and around the corner.
Travis: Why did we let her have anything?
Matt: All right.
Laura: You're out.
Matt: So that ends your turn, her turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to pull off the mask and walk forward a bit, about there, and take three shots at the armor.
Matt: Okay, regular shots?
Taliesin: Sharpshooter shots.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: With one ice, so 14.
Matt: 14 misses. Deflects it with the shield.
Taliesin: Make sure I'm doing this right. Yeah. Goddamn it. 17.
Matt: Deflects the second one with the shield.
Laura: Damn it!
Matt: Heavy armor on this one.
Taliesin: Dropping sharpshooter for the third one.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Not that it helped. 16.
Matt: This one actually manages to duck out of the way and splinters across the wall behind it.
Sam: They're tough.
Taliesin: That's my turn.
Matt: All righty. Vax, you're up.
Marisha: Kill them.
Liam: I'm just going to walk as far as I can, so 30 feet.
Matt: There.
Liam: Am I within 40 feet?
Matt: No.
Liam: Then I just stand.
Matt: Well, you can use the rest of your action to keep moving, if you'd like.
Liam: All right, yeah. I'm going to move around that table and get by Scanlan. Stand right next to him.
Matt: Okay, that brings us to Grog.
Travis: I would like to move to the suit of armor please.
Matt: Run towards it, jumping and putting one foot on the table; using that as momentum to rush in the air. Go ahead and roll your attack.
Travis: 24?
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: And 25.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 20 with fire damage.
Matt: Nice.
Travis: And 16 with fire damage.
Matt: Gotcha. (grunts) Bringing the hammer down, the helmet actually gets pushed into the armor and has to reform itself. Before it has a chance to, you bring around the hammer and hit the shield with such force that it pushes it into itself and slams it against the wall. You take the back of the hammer and slam it up under the actual helmet, hitting the creature. You see the flames burn across the side of its arcane form, causing it to shimmer for a second. It's looking pretty rough.
Matt: Instead of using the table, though, you use Grog's knee. You just run, jump onto his knee with one foot, leap off, blade in the air, go for the strike.
Marisha: That's cool!
Laura: You can do it, Scanlan! (laughs)
Sam: What do I add?
Marisha: Your attack bonus.
Matt: Attack bonus for your weapon.
Sam: I don't know what that is! (laughter)
Travis: It is never used.
Sam: Okay. It's a plus seven!
Matt: Yeah, so?
Sam: 15. (laughter)
Matt: As you rush in the air, you hesitate for a moment, remembering the Pike thing, and you see this burning arcane rage in the face of this entity. At that moment, that hesitation was all it needed. It takes the shield and almost knocks the weapon out of your hand. You catch yourself, land on your feet-- yeah, your fingers sting a little bit. (laughs) Worth a shot. All right, in retribution, it's going to strike at you twice. That's a 15?
Sam: That fails.
Matt: 21.
Sam: That is successful.
Matt: That is seven points of slashing damage.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: All right. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Ugh. You guys, I thought someone was going to kill him!
Sam: I tried, but he hurt my wrist really bad!
Marisha: I know, because I don't want to fucking burn any spells on this asshole.
Taliesin: Just hit him with your stick.
Marisha: Just-- ugh. God.
Matt: Roll for it.
Marisha: Goddamn it, this hopefully works-- nope.
Taliesin: No! Wow!
Marisha: Nope, that didn't work. (tink) (laughter)
Matt: Heavy armor on these guys. All right. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh gosh. I guess I shoot him. Can I see him to shoot him?
Matt: I'll say yeah, you can see him all right. You can move over there and get a better view a little bit. Just around this corner, off the table.
Laura: And I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: Hunter's Mark him?
Laura: And then I'm going to shoot him.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Laura: Oh gosh, I'm just so nervous about picking the 20. No. 19?
Matt: 19? The arrow hits the armor and shatters across the side.
Laura: Shit.
Travis: 19?
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24 does hit.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Yay, you hurt it.
Laura: Well, maybe.
Travis: That's a high AC. Because of the shield, right?
Matt: Because of the shield and the armor.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18 points of damage? With that, the second arrow strikes into the center of its chest armor. It hits some sort of core where its arcane form is held and the reddish energy blinks out, and the armor just (impact noise) crumples to the ground.
Travis: That's two of them!
Laura: What's up, bitches?
Travis: That was tough.
Marisha: Okay, I immediately turn my attention to Cassandra. Can I do a medical check on her to make sure she's okay?
Matt: Go ahead and make a medicine check, yeah.
Travis: Where's Ripley?
Sam: I start running out the hall to Ripley.
Travis: Me, as well.
Laura: Oh, Trinket is still running after her, too.
Matt: All right, make a perception check for Trinket.
Laura: Oh. (laughs) Okay, is it his smelling?
Matt: Yeah, it's his wisdom bonus.
Laura: I'm rolling a big dice for Trinket! Oh, that's good. 26!
Matt: 26, okay.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25, okay. Trinket is giving chase best it can.
Laura: Except wait. Hold on, I get advantage because he's got advantage on smell perception. Oh, it's the same thing.
Matt: Okay, so Trinket is keeping track, but is having a hard time fully keeping up at this point unless you're giving full attention towards him at this point in time, but is keeping a track. He is rushing as fast as he can down the stairs and is currently out of your sphere of personal influence at the moment.
Laura: I should have Hunter's Marked her. (sighs)
Travis: I grab Scanlan, and we're taking off after her out the door.
Marisha: I rolled a 17 on a medicine check.
Matt: Okay, checking Cassandra, there is no sign of a wound now. She seems to be not in any danger.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: So, she's on the ground, dazed.
Taliesin: I'm going to collapse in a corner for a minute and start using my ascot to clean some of the gore off my weapon and my clothing and my mask.
Matt: It is a lot of gore. Okay.
Liam: Are we out of combat now?
Matt: You guys are currently out of combat.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to, clutching my bleeding belly, walk over toward Keyleth and say, that was a close one.
Marisha: Yeah. You know, I feel like we've been here before-- oh, right. We have been here before.
Liam: You know I'm in love with you, right? And I kiss her.
Sam: Oh!
Taliesin: (coughs heavily)
Sam: Persistent cough.
Matt: (laughs) And on that note, we're going to go ahead and take a quick little break!
Laura: What the fuck?!
Matt: (laughs) All right, quick break!
Taliesin: I want to see what color you turned. Oh my god, yeah! (laughter)
Matt: All right, awesome. Quick break, guys! See you guys back here in a few minutes.
Travis: Dude, what?! [break]
Zac: Couple quick things, guys, or I could just sit here and talk for a good ten minutes, make you guys wait before we come back to the bombshell that was dropped. I'm just going to keep going. We are 15 away from doing a giveaway, if we hit that 15 we will be doing that giveaway at the very end of this stream, right whenever Matt says that's it. We will open up the chat for everyone and do that giveaway. I also want to say for all the people wondering what in the world was the No Survivors thing, Snakes on a Plane number one was this last Monday, and it's up on the website right now if you guys are curious and want to check it out, it's probably the funniest thing we've ever done on this channel, and I don't say that lightly. But we're doing Snakes on a Plane 2 this coming Monday, so thanks, guys.
Matt: Hell yeah.
Taliesin: Snakes on a Plane 2  More Snakes, More Plane.
Matt: All right. So. With the chaos that has ensued through the battle in Anders's study in the castle of Whitestone, the party looks about, Cassandra de Rolo recovered, and pulled from seemingly the brink of death. Vax pulled seemingly from the brink of death, and Percy managing to squeak in a second killshot on a member of his list. As the rest period kicks in, Vax stepped across the room, holding his wound to his side, admitting his affection for Keyleth, and reaching out and kissing her.
Travis: Or attempting to kiss.
Laura: Roll for contact there?
Sam: Roll for tongue action.
Matt: No.
Liam: No.
Matt: So, as he breaks from the momentary, unexpected embrace, you catch yourself off guard.
Liam: You know, the way you turn into animals and stuff is really cool.
Taliesin: I'm going to collect some of Vex's arrows.
Marisha: Are you sure you're--
Laura: I leave the room and look for Trinket.
Marisha: Just... let me. And I Cure Wounds him. I'll do a 4th level. Shut up, Sam. I just can't find my spell. Yeah, I'll do that 4th-level Cure Wounds.
Matt: Burn all the spell slots. Go ahead and roll.
Liam: Folks, we don't know what we're doing. None of us know what we're doing.
Marisha: I feel like in the moment I would just do it really at a-- shut up.
Sam: Sure, overcompensate.
Marisha: Right. What do I roll? Hang on. 1d8. So I'm rolling 4d8. I need d8s, goddamn it! Give me d8s.
Taliesin: You can't have my d8s.
Marisha: Why can't I have your d8s?
Taliesin: Okay, fine, have my d8s.
Marisha: That's fine, give me one more.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Okay, 14, 18. (counting)
Matt: What are you doing?
Taliesin: I'm collecting three or four of Vex's arrows from the ground and getting them in my hand, and I'm staying back from all of this and letting it happen.
Matt: Okay. Collect the arrows, Vex has stepped out of the room to pursue after Trinket, Trinket is currently pursuing Ripley. Grog, you watched that happen.
Travis: No, Grog and Scanlan ran out of the room after Ripley.
Matt: Okay, have you guys bolted out? Okay.
Travis: We're yelling out, Ripley!
Sam: Ripley!
Taliesin: Vax, are you all right?
Sam: We shouldn't yell, Grog.
Travis: Fuck that. I yell anyway.
Liam: Was there a total?
Marisha: 33.
Liam: Yes, I feel better. Thank you.
Taliesin: That's good. I'm going to now take my handful of what is now basically a switch, and I'm going to start whacking him with it really hard on the chest.
Liam: Who?
Taliesin: You! Don't go into rooms by yourself, god damn it!
Marisha: I back into a corner upon seeing this, as Percy ruins the moment.
Liam: Percival, he had a knife to your sister's throat. He was going to kill her.
Taliesin: Thank you, but count to ten. And now I drop them and go over to my sister.
Liam: I was afraid she was going to die.
Marisha: To be fair, you did get her throat slit, but it's okay.
Matt: As you're saying this, you turn around, you can see she's sat up and she sees this conversation and goes, "Percy?"
Taliesin: Hi.
Matt: "Percy!"
Taliesin: I'm so sorry.
Matt: And she gets up off the ground and runs up and just grabs you and embraces you tightly. You can feel all the muscles tense in her body as she just holds you with a slight shake to her body.
Taliesin: I'm so sorry for leaving you.
Matt: "I thought you were dead." She pulls away for a second and just looks at you, and there's a coldness to her face. She's happy, but even for her young age, you can see there's lines at the corners of her eyes. She's probably been through a lot. She smiles and looks up at you again and you can see there's the white shocks in her hair, and she looks up and touches your hair and goes, "I see we've both survived quite a bit."
Taliesin: I wouldn't trade.
Matt: She laughs to herself, and you see another tear curl at her eye, and then her face goes cold for a second and she, not breaking this gaze, steps back. "You shouldn't be here. They were using me to get to you. I'm so sorry."
Taliesin: Are you all right? Did they do anything? Are you yourself?
Matt: She reaches up and holds her neck. "I'm good. I'm good." And she steels herself for a second, and even more so, you see there's an intensity to her.
Taliesin: Perception check?
Matt: To...?
Taliesin: Insight. I want to make sure she's not holding anything really important back.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: Insight? Do I get a bonus for that right now? It's a wisdom-- yeah!
Matt: No, because you were concentrating.
Taliesin: This is not a saving throw, though.
Matt: Yeah, and that's wisdom, not a saving throw.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: 11. Okay. Best you can tell, she seems very honest. She seems forthright. You're used to the memory of your sister being this bright-eyed, cheerful, youngest of the bunch, and definitely a woman who sees the world with fresh eyes. These eyes are different. They're colder. They're hardened. In ways, you're impressed; in ways, you're also immediately sad to see that that memory of your sister probably is no longer there.
Taliesin: We're putting an end to the Briarwoods tonight. Before the sun sets. This is the end of them. It's all going to be over, and we're going to stop whatever it is they're doing under the city.
Matt: "You say this. We've tried twice."
Taliesin: I know. This is it.
Matt: "That's what the others thought. You left me, you know."
Taliesin: I know, and I'm so sorry.
Matt: "Good. Well, if we're going to do this, let's get ready."
Taliesin: You're going to your room.
Matt: "Yes, I am."
Taliesin: To wait until this is over.
Matt: "No. No, I'm not. I'm going to my room to get my things. To get my mother's armor."
Taliesin: (sputters) You're-- I don't think that's a very good idea.
Matt: "You've been fighting them for what, a few days? I've been fighting them for nearly three years. You have no power over me, brother. And if our goals are aligned to free this city, let's do it together. But I don't have to listen to you."
Taliesin: God, you're irritating. Fine. Ugh!
Matt: She walks out of the room.
Marisha: Percy!
Taliesin: She's so obnoxious. What?
Marisha: You have a sister.
Taliesin: Oh god, I do.
Matt: You guys, charging off. Trinket's keeping trail. She's run down the stairway, he is beginning to slowly gain on her. She reaches the front doors, does remember the caltrops. Jumps over them, grabs the door, opens it, and rushes out into the daylight. Go ahead and roll a perception check for Trinket.
Marisha: Oh, come on, Trinket.
Laura: He saw it happen! He's got really good vision.
Marisha: Come on, Trink.
Taliesin: Yay!
Laura: Oh yeah, that's like 24.
Matt: Yeah, Trinket just jumps over. The door's only slightly open so Trinket has to stop and wedge his way through.
Laura: Can he cannonball into her? To try to catch her?
Matt: It's the same speed as if he dashed. It would be the same speed.
Laura: All right.
Matt: However, it takes a moment to get through. You guys now get down the stairs. As Trinket opens the door and wedges through, there's a scent out there, but she's nowhere in visible range. She's either darted off the path or possibly off the actual sides, and you can see now the struggle that's happened. You can now hear in the distance the sound of yells and fighting and there doesn't appear to be any one side or the other pushing.
Laura: I whistle at Trinket to get him to stop.
Matt: Okay, as you get to the landing you whistle out, and Trinket is just now pushing through the door and gets out for a bit, looking back and forth. Looks over the shoulder, and runs back to you. It appears that Ripley has scattered into Whitestone somewhere.
Sam: Damn it.
Travis: We stop.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: We need to find the Briarwoods.
Taliesin: I'm still upstairs. Are you going to come meet us again upstairs?
Sam: We'll get Trinket and go back upstairs, wherever they are.
Taliesin: Taking a short rest.
Marisha: We're taking a short rest?
Taliesin: We're waiting there. They followed her down; I'm waiting on Cassandra.
Travis: I could stay down in that foyer.
Taliesin: Come up.
Matt: Are you waiting in the study?
Taliesin: Yeah, waiting in the study.
Matt: Okay, she goes off to her room. You're there for a few minutes.
Taliesin: Does Grog show up?
Sam: We come back and say, that Ripley is very talented. She got away. Talented Dr. Ripley.
Taliesin: We have bigger issues than Anna at this point. Grog, do you have the Bag of Holding?
Travis: I do.
Taliesin: Can you scoop up what's left of Professor Anders?
Laura: Can I loot him first? I mean, just see what's on him.
Travis: Like, his head bits?
Taliesin: I don't want any of him sticking around.
Marisha: Do we have to put him in the Bag of Holding, though?
Travis: Why can't we just set him on fire?
Marisha: Yeah, stuff him in a closet or something for now.
Taliesin: Fire will do.
Travis: Is there a fireplace in the room?
Taliesin: There is. Throw him in. Fine, we'll throw him in the fire.
Laura: Wait. Let me see what's on him, first.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: We don't want him coming back.
Matt: He's crumpled up against the desk in the corner, there's all these papers that got pushed off the side, there were a bunch of random scrawlings.
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24? Okay. You search his body. You find 120 gold pieces on him. Not a whole lot. He doesn't keep his important shit on him, for the most part. You do find, however, the boots that he's wearing are very finely crafted, and unlike the rest of his wear, have a hand-stitching in it that is exemplary in construction and doesn't match with the rest of his ensemble. So it seems like something you'd wear more for function than for actual style. Pardon.
Laura: I take them.
Matt: You take them.
Taliesin: Take his shoes.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Does anybody have magic? Can you see what these are?
Sam: Sure, I can look at them.
Laura: Look at these, Scanlan.
Sam: I look at them.
Matt: Okay, if you're taking a short rest, you can take the short rest to inspect the boots, get the feel for them, they are indeed enchanted. They are a pair of Boots of Levitation. Once per day, you can trigger the levitation for up to ten minutes as per the spell. You can't actually move as part of it, you just levitate in the air, and you have to push off to get space.
Travis: So like zero-G.
Matt: Zero-G.
Taliesin: Like Willy Wonka.
Marisha: Zero-G boots! Oh, hell yeah.
Sam: Who do they fit?
Matt: They fit anyone who wishes to put them on. Magical items alter themselves.
Marisha: Oh, we're playing with that later.
Travis: I'll just hang onto it. I'll just hold onto it.
Marisha: Can we all just try them once when we get back to Greyskull Keep?
Matt: Anything else you want to do while you're waiting?
Sam: Anything else in the room? Can I sniff around the room and investigate?
Matt: Yeah, go ahead and make an investigation check.
Travis: I drag Anders over to the fireplace.
Liam: I'll look with Scanlan.
Sam: 12.
Travis: He doesn't quite fit, so I have to snap some joints.
Liam: 27.
Matt: Okay, good. As you're looking through and finding papers, papers and ledgers and tough discussions of old classes, untouched on the side, you go through one of the bottom drawers, and there's a lock to it.
Liam: Well, let's unlock that.
Sam: Vax, do you need my help to unlock it?
Liam: No, Shorty. Hold on. Are there any traps in there?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: Oh, that is 20.
Matt: It does appear to be trapped.
Sam: It does appear to be trapped?
Liam: So what do I roll to undo that? Dexterity? Lockpick?
Matt: Thieves' tools, as well. So same check you did.
Sam: Oh, I can open it for you.
Liam: That's a natural 20, so that's untrapped.
Matt: As part of that, you notice that this mechanism is when it opens, if there isn't a switch underneath it held that's hidden, it will cause a poison dart to launch out in the direction of whoever's in front of it. You hold the button, you find it, you open it up without an issue, and you find the spring mechanism, snap it, and remove the little poison-tipped bolt, and chuck it to the side.
Laura: No, wait. Give me that. I take it.
Matt: Okay. You have a poison-tipped bolt.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: For a tiny little hand-crossbow is essentially what it is.
Liam: So now I've got to unlock it, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah. Hey, 20.
Matt: Natural 20?
Liam: No, not a natural 20.
Matt: Oh, okay. Easy enough to unlock at this point, you get it open, you pull it open, there's a collection of letters.
Liam: Percival, come here. You're probably the best person to know what to make of these.
Matt: You glance through and inspect them, and you take the next ten minutes or so to get the gist of these letters while Cassandra's away. Many of them talk about a slew of things that are disconcerting to you as the information hits you, and you relay this information to the group. Notes on the removal of key magical defenses during the political meeting at Emon. The discussion, as in making sure that certain individuals and safeguards that are usually made during political meetings like that were not present during that endeavor.
Laura: Evidence is what that is!
Matt: Notes on best construction methods using the mined whitestone and repairs for the manse in the ziggurat.
Marisha: The manse?
Travis: The manse?
Sam: As in a mansion?
Matt: A manse is a place or a home; it has many different meanings. They're warning Anders, and there are multiple letters at different periods of time over the past few years that are warning Anders of an arrival of Seeker Asum's spies.
Sam: He's a good guy.
Laura: Oh!
Sam: No, he's a bad guy?
Matt: There are letters talking about plotting, diverting political attention away from Whitestone to leave it a political enigma during this period of time. There are letters talking about planting information within Wildmount that would lead their investigation team to believe the Briarwoods had been found dead.
Sam: This is a whole paper trail!
Matt: And occasionally there are mentions in a lot of these letters that speak of, "The Undying King shall return, we are his blood."
Marisha: Jarl? What?
Matt: The Undying King shall return.
Laura: Where did she get Jarl from?
Matt: We are his blood.
Laura: Oh, "we are."
Marisha: The Undying King...
Taliesin: Shall return.
Taliesin: We are his blood.
Sam: We are his blood.
Marisha: Which is what he said.
Sam: And then it says Jarl.
Taliesin: Jarl. Maybe he was dictating.
Matt: The letters aren't signed.
Sam: Okay? Are they all of the same hand?
Matt: They are all of the same handwriting. In the cluster, there is one completely unrelated letter that talks about business ledgers and construction of the bridge. It appears to be a simple discussion on the future plans to construct the bridge.
Sam: Is that in the same hand?
Matt: It is in the same handwriting.
Sam: And is it signed?
Matt: It is signed a Lord Riskel Daxio.
Marisha: What! Who? Axio?
Travis: Riskel Daxio.
Sam: Riskel Daxio.
Matt: Riskel Daxio.
Laura: We know him!
Marisha: We know him!
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Who is he?
Matt: He's on the Council of Tal'Dorei.
Laura: (gasps) Oh, motherfucker! He's a spy.
Marisha: He's our fucking spy!
Matt: He's technically also the one that helped designate the construction of your keep and plotted the construction stuff--
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: He built our keep!
Marisha: He's the construction guy, he's like our head builder.
Liam: He could be spying on us around the keep.
Taliesin: He could have a secret entrance to our Keep that he built and didn't tell us.
Laura: Holy moly.
Sam: As soon as I see that, I go down in a crouch and I shit-scry on our keep to see if it's still there.
Marisha: Oh my god, that's right, you did that! And I put an elemental there. It's babysitting.
Matt: Yes, you did.
Marisha: Hopefully still there. 30 days.
Matt: 30 days. Glancing within the kitchen, there doesn't appear to be much that catches your attention.
Taliesin: You shat in the kitchen?
Sam: I put a mound of shit in a jar in the kitchen and I told them, don't clean it up.
Matt: Like you do.
Sam: You know.
Laura: Like you do.
Sam: Thursdays.
Travis: I've got Anders in the fireplace, and I light the Firebrand War Hammer with the magic word, bacon, and I hit it and set him on fire.
Matt: There was already a fire in the fireplace, but you just stoke it a little further, and pretty soon the delicious scent of burning human flesh fills the room.
Laura: Bacon?
Travis: Yeah, bacon. Did you not know that's what the word was?
Sam: So everything's fine at the keep?
Matt: At the time.
Sam: At the time, okay.
Matt: At least, there's nothing on fire, there's no screams, there's no movement. It just seems like the cold kitchen is untouched.
Sam: Guys, my shit saw no movement. (laughter)
Laura: Good to know, Scanlan.
Taliesin: You've squeezed all you're going to be able to get out of that.
Travis: Percy. Can we get into the underground caverns from here?
Taliesin: Can I think of a way? I'm assuming I know a way to where this might be.
Matt: As you have this conversation, a voice from the doorway rings out. "I can take you." You look over, and it's Cassandra.
Taliesin: She's going to take us.
Sam: Is that your sister?
Taliesin: Apparently.
Matt: She's currently now dressed in armor you've seen as ornamental before. It was armor that your mother trained in when she was young, but was unused for a long time. It seems to be serviceable; it's been updated and such. She slides a shortsword into a sheath at her side, and her hair is pulled back and tied off, and she looks at the rest of the room. "So are we ready?"
Travis: Let me see your neck.
Matt: She steps up and lifts her chin up towards you.
Sam: By the way, this is Grog.
Liam: I'm going to insight check as he does that.
Taliesin: These are my friends, by the way.
Travis: Do I see anything on her neck?
Matt: No. It seems fine. There's no signs of any puncture wounds. Rolling?
Liam: It's a 15.
Matt: Okay. She seems as determined as the rest of you.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: Lead the way, sister.
Matt: She turns around and she begins walking back down the hallway.
Laura: Can we expect any more traps that you're aware of?
Matt: "That I'm aware of, no, but I'm certain that there may be. They know you're coming, it seems. So be wary. Be careful. I'll take you to the undercroft."
Liam: Did we just have a short rest here?
Matt: You did.
Liam: Going to heal up.
Sam: Hey, Percival. Any chance you can load up one of Ripley's guns for me?
Taliesin: I don't know if it will actually-- I would have to probably train you in how to use it.
Sam: Really? I've seen you use it. You just pull your finger on the finger part and the big boom part goes out.
Taliesin: It's a little more complicated than that, actually.
Sam: Well, you have to point it at the thing you want to be boomed.
Matt: He could use it, he just wouldn't be able to add his proficiency bonus to the attack rolls.
Taliesin: I'll load one for you. I'll give him her boomstick.
Matt: Okay. You take it. You inspect it as you guys are walking along.
Taliesin: Just making sure it functions, too.
Matt: It seems pretty functional. It's well-constructed, it's sleek. Your Pepperbox has a bit of flair to its design, this is your background. Hers is just streamlined, simple, much like the decor of her room when you saw it. She doesn't mess with anything fancy or unnecessary. The ammunition she does have are made specific to size to her pistol. They will not function for the Pepperbox, unfortunately. They will only work for the pistol.
Taliesin: Doing okay. Not doing great, but I'm doing okay.
Matt: It does act as a pistol for rules-wise, which is on your sheet here, so yes, you would have that.
Laura: Do you want it? Just in case yours misfires?
Taliesin: I'll steal it back from him if I need, but it should be fine.
Sam: I'd like to make an athletics check. Athletics. See if I can spin it around and put it in my pocket.
Laura: Wait, where did you get it? I had it in my belt.
Taliesin: No, if you have it.
Laura: I have it.
Sam: Okay, give it to me.
Taliesin: Give it to him.
Marisha: Put your eye out.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll dexterity, roll a d20, add your dexterity modifier.
Liam: Don't roll a one.
Taliesin: This is literally how she lost her hand.
Sam: Wait, what's this? Why does it say plus four?
Laura: This music is awful as you're checking.
Marisha: Yeah, the violins plinking.
Sam: Well, it's zero, but it says a big plus four next to it for some reason.
Matt: I don't know. Add zero. What did you roll?
Sam: It was 14.
Matt: Okay. You manage to get it in there. Thankfully it's not loaded, because you feel the trigger go off. But there wasn't a bullet loaded, so it's like (click).
Travis: Yeah, we took out the ammunition.
Sam: Okay, now give me a bullet.
Travis: Maybe don't do that.
Taliesin: I hand him the ammunition. I load four of them.
Sam: Yeah!
Laura: Giving him a loaded gun?
Sam: I'm a big boy. Well, I'm a little boy. But I'm a little big boy.
Liam: I would like to walk past Scanlan and grab it out of his hand.
Sam: I will prevent him from doing that!
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: You guys are fighting over a loaded gun.
Matt: Sleight-of-hand check. Athletics check.
Liam: You go first.
Sam: Is this a skill check?
Matt: Yeah. Add your athletics to your roll.
Sam: 17!
Liam: Shut up. 27.
Matt: As you go to be, "No, what are you--" It's already gone. You don't even know where it went, you didn't see him take it, you just all of a sudden see it in his hand as he walks past you.
Liam: And I walk over to Cassandra. I don't give her the gun, I just say, you're Cassandra?
Matt: "Yes."
Liam: I was at the door. He had a knife to your throat. He wanted you to say something to us. What did he want you to say?
Matt: "He wanted me to shout for help. He wanted me to draw you in."
Laura: Can I insight check her to see if she's telling the truth?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: You've been living here. How did it come that he had a blade to your throat today? How did it all unravel? Have you been living here?
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24. She's telling the truth.
Laura: Okay. That's good.
Matt: "Well, after the arrows felled me-- I guess I should start at the beginning." And she's walking along with you guys as she's leading you down the stairs and down to the bottom floor. She doesn't look to you. She's still looking ahead, very intent.
Laura: I take that pistol back from you.
Matt: "After the arrows felled me, I recovered. Father Reynal found me. Brought me from the brink at the temple of Pelor outside of town. Things hadn't fallen quite that far back then. We had more people in the city. At the time, the Briarwood rule was fresh and folks were eager to speak out against what they had wrought on this city, the fall of the de Rolos. We still thought they had fallen to plague, but through some unfortunate political business, they had come to power, but we began to question it. I knew better. I told the truth once I'd recovered. We began to build our first rebellion. Two years we built up the resistance before we made our first move. They seemed to know exactly what we were plotting. Cut us off at every angle. Couldn't see who it was who was giving up our information, but I knew it was close. But before I had the opportunity, I was helming a group that was traveling to utilize the escape route that I took you through when they first attacked. It was just after dusk, and Lord Briarwood was there waiting for us in the forest. He slaughtered most of the men, but he recognized my face from the dinner we had the night they took the castle. They did not harm me, strangely. They treated me like a guest against my will, in my own house. I seemed to ascertain that by keeping me there, having a member of the house within their grasp, they could use that as leverage. I don't know. Sylas, he had his charms, and there were many that worked beneath them against their own will. It did not work on me. My hatred was too strong. So instead, they tried to provide me with wealth. Power, here in Whitestone. I just took to reading and ignoring it all. I don't know why they kept me around, but I wasn't going to question it if it gave me a chance to possibly undermine them." She grabs the side of her sword as you guys have now reached now down the long hallway towards the back of the castle. You know the direction she's taking you. It leads to the cellar, to the undercroft and the de Rolo mausoleum. "Three years of reading in that library. Father's library. Strategy. Tactics. Old lines of information, as well as the myths and history of Whitestone. I found allies within the castle. I contacted Yennen, and through him, Archibald, who helped me build the first rebellion. Archibald still lives, Percy. He's been completely necessary for what we've built here." She looks down at her armor as you guys reach the edge of the cellar, and she pulls the door open quietly. There's wooden stairs that lead down into the cellar. She taps her armor. "This was Mother's. It's good to know I'm not the only tomboy in the bloodline." Brushes the hair out of her face, and for the first time really looks at you with a smile since she first saw you.
Taliesin: (sighs) Can we do one thing before we go down into the cellar? This is the best day of my life, and I can't help but be suspicious.
Matt: "I completely understand."
Taliesin: Is there any way to check if she's being controlled?
Travis: I was thinking the same thing.
Taliesin: Can we put your helmet on her?
Matt: The only thing you really have seen work is the Greater Restoration spell you cast on Seeker Asum when you guys were with the Council of Tal'Dorei. That did seem to remove any sort of charm effects, if that's what you're asking.
Laura: We don't have that?
Marisha: I didn't learn it. Not for today. I thought Pike's magic would hold up.
Travis: I can try and jog her memory.
Matt: "What can I do to make you trust me?"
Sam: Punch her in the face?
Taliesin: I do trust you. That's the problem.
Matt: She smiles a little. "Whatever you need."
Taliesin: I've got nothing. (sighs)
Matt: Does anyone have any creative means with which they would want to check?
Taliesin: What would happen if we put your helmet on her?
Marisha: If she's already controlled--
Taliesin: This would disrupt it, maybe.
Marisha: We could try it. It doesn't hurt to put a hat on.
Laura: It has to be attuned over a short rest, though.
Marisha: It does.
Taliesin: Does the hat need to be attuned over a short rest?
Matt: In theory.
Liam: I want to suggest something to you. We rest here for a half hour, and I give this to you. This came from a very strange creature. It will help you resist any control, if there is any control, and one of us-- you could even choose-- could strike you and try to take you out of it, and if you are not being controlled, then you are being struck across the face, and I'm sorry for that, but if you are, there's a possibility we'd pull you out. I know that would hurt, but it would go a long way to earn our trust.
Matt: "If that's what it takes." She takes it from your hand and inspects it for a second. "Shoddy craftsmanship." Places it on her head, and it's a little big at first, then it conforms to her head.
Liam: Your choice.
Matt: She sits down a couple of steps deeper into the cellar. Curls around a corner; ushers you all over into the shadows.
Marisha: Can I see, before we leave, are we near any windows?
Matt: From this location? No. All the windows that would be here would face out into the north side of Whitestone, which is forested.
Marisha: Backyard?
Matt: You guys are on the north side of the castle now. The city is south from you.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: So you take a moment and sit. While you guys are waiting, she takes a moment. She's adjusting it and feeling it and inspecting her hands. (sighs) "I don't feel any different. While we wait--"
Liam: What if the little one struck you?
Sam: Struck her?
Laura: Give it some time.
Matt: She gives a wry grin. "Whatever you choose."
Sam: I could try to tell if she's evil or not. Would that help?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I don't know. I don't think she's evil. She could be a puppet.
Marisha: Can I try this? This is a long shot. My-- actually, our fey ancestry, from being half-elves. We're immune to charm effects. Or we have resistance.
Liam: Resistant to it.
Marisha: Advantage against saves. Since we have that, can we use our fey ancestry, the three of us, to tap into her and see if we can detect a charm?
Matt: Your resistance doesn't make you attuned to it. Unfortunately, it's just a natural ability that's inherent. Her being human, there's not a way to really correlate with that. I mean, you've read over her a few times, doing insight checks.
Taliesin: Wait, it was Greater Restoration?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Ah!
Sam: You have that?
Taliesin: I have a potion. This should solve all of our problems.
Sam: Or you could save that for when one of us becomes a vampire.
Taliesin: No, it will be-- And I'm pulling out a potion bottle. This is if you are controlled. This could fix it.
Matt: She puts her hand out. Her leather glove's pulled over it now. You've never seen her militant before, and it's a really interesting visual to you.
Taliesin: I look at her.
Matt: She drinks the potion. Whole thing down. (coughs)
Taliesin: That was actually a minor healing potion. I was just seeing if you did it intentionally. (laughter)
Matt: She gives a wry grin and wipes her mouth. "I thought I recognized that terrible earthy taste." She tosses the crystal decanter to you.
Liam: Clever boy.
Matt: "Huh. You always were the clever one."
Taliesin: I figured it was worth a shot. Best we're going to do.
Sam: Am I supposed to punch her in the face now?
Liam: No.
Matt: "Do you need this thing?"
Liam: I'll take it back, yeah.
Matt: She hands it back to you.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: There's a fascination she has with her armor. "I've not been able to wear this before. It feels good to have something close to Mother."
Taliesin: It's been a long time. (sighs)
Matt: "Simon repaired it for me when he was working here. I haven't seen him in a while. I'm worried."
Taliesin: Let's go down and take care of this. Cass?
Matt: She leads you down through the cellar--
Marisha: Wait, hang on. Before we enter  it's safe to assume they know we're coming, correct?
Sam: If they're there.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Liam: Better safe than sorry.
Sam: Can I ask Cassandra--
Matt: You can ask her anything you'd like.
Sam: Are the Briarwoods going to be down there? Are they here?
Matt: She goes, "I have no confirmation of it, but they spend most of their time down here. They're preparing for something."
Liam: Have you ever been down here?
Matt: "I'm not allowed down here, by their orders, but I've snuck down a few times out of curiosity. I've only gotten so far before I had to return, but I've made it through the undercroft, through most of the tunnels, and I've gotten to the distillery, and that's about as far as I've gotten. But I've followed them down here, and they usually come with a group of guards, four or five strong."
Laura: All right.
Travis: Are there sentries? Can we expect to find traps, lookouts?
Matt: "It's definitely a possibility, so move quietly. Be careful."
Laura: What is Lady Briarwood?
Matt: "What is Lady Briarwood? She's a wicked beast of a creature, is what she is. I'd use less savory words, but my brother's here."
Taliesin: There's a first time for everything, I suppose.
Matt: As she leads you guys down the stairs towards the undercroft, she goes, "She's not like her husband. That I know. As far as I can tell, she's human, but she has a very powerful control over life and death. She's a practitioner of the arcane, definitely, but her focus seems to be necromancy on a wide scale. And while Delilah and Sylas are man and wife, they speak of another."
Sam: They speak of another?
Laura: The guy that they're trying to bring back.
Matt: "It's as if a third party completes their union."
Sam: Oh, this is the king that will rise again?
Matt: "They don't say any names. They refer to him as 'him' or 'The Whispered One.' No reference beyond that."
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: What?
Laura: (whispering) What if it's the guy in Percy?
Sam: What if it's what?
Taliesin: I'm having that thought, as well.
Laura: Percy's smoke monster.
Sam: Oh shit.
Marisha: Oh boy.
Liam: He's playing both sides, possibly, Percival.
Sam: Oh, another question for Cassandra. The duke, Negmeyer? Vegmeyer? Venkman?
Taliesin: Quagmire.
Marisha: Quagmire.
Matt: "Vedmeyer, yes."
Sam: Vedmeyer. Have you seen him around the castle today, or recently?
Matt: "I've only seen him in the castle maybe three times since we've been here."
Sam: Because Grog? He's a goliath.
Travis: He's-- wait, what?
Sam: He's a big goliath, so if he's here, you should just, you know--
Travis: How did you see him?
Sam: Oh, when I was a dinosaur and I burned down a house and killed a bunch of people...
Taliesin: That's a series of words that I know individually, but he strings them together in ways that don't make any sense.
Sam: I wouldn't say fought, because I beat him really easily, and then I ran away.
Travis: Oh, you killed him?
Sam: No, I just pushed him off a building, then I thought that was enough for the day, so I went home.
Matt: Cassandra looks over her shoulder at this. "It's a shame you're not as tall as your tales, small one."
Sam: Well, thank you. I'll take that as a compliment.
Taliesin: No!
Sam: Don't worry.
Marisha: (laughing) No. (laughter)
Sam: Before we cross the precipice into this-- what is it, undercroft?
Matt: Undercroft she was referring to, yes.
Sam: Percival, we all have fought with you this whole time, and you know that we have your back and that we're with you in this 100 percent. But I'd like our enemies to know that, as well, so with your permission, I will cast Seeming on all of us. And I make the girls look like Cassandra, and the boys look like Percy. So I give us all the gray hair.
Taliesin: You crazy motherfucker!
Sam: And if possible, I'd like to emblazon the sign of the rebellion on our chests in sort of an awesome Superman glowing thing.
Matt: With a flicker of Scanlan's arcane mastery, all of you form into a small battalion of Percys and Cassandras.
Liam: Is he a big Percy?
Matt: He would have to be, yeah, because he still stays similar to his actual size, so if Percy was a little thicker and a little taller--
Marisha: Percy's been hitting the 'roids.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: What is Trinket?
Sam: A bear with two streaks of white hair. (all laugh)
Laura: And he's wearing little circle glasses.
Sam: Yeah, with the little glasses. We are all de Rolos today.
Marisha: He's a Hello Trinket!
Taliesin: Hello Trinket?
Marisha: Hello Trinket.
Matt: Cassandra looks around very confused for a second. "Curious, yes."
Marisha: But abrasive. Right? You're put off by it, so it works. It's working.
Sam: Possibly confused.
Taliesin: Abrasiveness is his most powerful weapon.
Matt: "So I'm beginning to see. Well, then." She pulls her shortsword out. "Shall we?"
Laura: Are we going in to fight now?
Travis: We're going into the cavern.
Laura: I'm stealthing.
Matt: "As are we all." Everyone roll stealth checks.
Laura: Should I cast Pass Without a Trace? Yeah, I'm going to use Pass Without a Trace, because I don't have a lot of 2nd-level spells.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Oh yeah. Please.
Matt: Plus ten.
Laura: Yeah, plus ten to your stealth.
Sam: Oh, really?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Thank god.
Travis: Boom!
Laura: Natural 20!
Liam: You're welcome.
Travis: 26. Natural 20.
Liam: 30. Natural 20.
Laura: Oh, natural 20.
Matt: 30, plus whatever your bonus is.
Liam: That's with the bonus.
Matt: I thought you rolled a natural 20?
Laura: That's 29, that's 39.
Matt: Oh, you?
Laura: 39 for me.
Matt: 39? Your sister just out-stealthed you.
Liam: I gave her my fucking cloak, Matt.
Sam: Do we all get plus ten?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: Oh, then 29.
Marisha: 28.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: You all (whoosh) vanish.
Marisha: Before we go in, I go, Vax?
Laura: How do you know it's him?
Matt: Solid point.
Marisha: Vax?
Sam: Yes, it's me.
Taliesin: Yes, Keyleth?
Marisha: Vax? (laughter)
Sam: Yes, it's me, Vax. What do you need? It's me.
Liam: Kiki, I'm over here.
Marisha: Goddamn it, Scanlan!
Laura: This is really creepy because it's brother and sister talking to each other right now. It looks like Percival and Cassandra.
Matt: She's very uncomfortable right now, by the way.
Taliesin: Is there anybody who is not made uncomfortable by this?
Marisha: This was supposed to be a passing comment, and it's turned into a thing. (laughs) Be careful.
Taliesin: Of course, Keyleth.
Laura: He will be.
Marisha: God damn it! I can't do this anymore.
Taliesin: Carry on.
Marisha: Just go. Let's go. Can we go?
Sam: Sister Vex? Do you mind giving me that gun again?
Marisha: Shut up, Scanlan.
Taliesin: It will be no problem at all.
Laura: No, you can't have it.
Sam: Why, because I'm three feet tall?
Laura: Because I want it.
Liam: (imitating Grog) Is this the body-switching episode?
Taliesin: Right.
Sam: Let's go.
Taliesin: Let's go.
Matt: Continuing down, a long set of whitestone-constructed stairs descend for about 45 feet before they level off into the de Rolo mausoleum. A long hallway continues forward that contains two ten-by-ten stone structures that contain the entombed bodies of previous generations of de Rolos, with six passages-- three on each side-- that split off of this main hallway that contain their own stone-encapsulated corpses. This is a place of silent prayer and showing appreciation for the previous families. Not all of them are full, and there were extensions planned as the family grew, but the first thing you notice is all of the tomb doors are open. Is anyone holding a torch light source, going through this?
Laura: He's got his flaming war hammer.
Marisha: Yeah, and I'll light up my hands.
Taliesin: I think I still have a torch, actually.
Matt: Have you been carrying it with you throughout this?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Dagger.
Matt: Okay, so you have enough light sources to keep a general idea of what's going on, and I know a lot of you guys have darkvision, too, so you have a pretty decent range. What's the marching order here, guys? Just so I know, continuing down this path.
Sam: We'll go Percy, Cassandra, Cassandra, Percy, Percy, Percy, Percy, Cassandra.
Marisha: Boy girl, boy girl, boy girl.
Laura: I'm going to perception ahead, so I'll be towards the front.
Matt: Towards the front?
Liam: How about Grog in second place? You big sponge.
Matt: Is Trinket staying with you or staying in back?
Laura: He's going to stay further back.
Marisha: Put me in a happy middle.
Matt: Grog's second. Keyleth is, you said, in the middle?
Sam: She's lucky Pierre.
Matt: All right, the rest of you guys?
Laura: Trinket's staying close to Scanlan.
Matt: Okay. Scanlan, you staying towards the back?
Sam: I guess so.
Matt: All right. Percy and Vax?
Liam: I'll be behind Grog, as well.
Taliesin: So I'll be in the back with my sister.
Matt: All right, and this is Cassandra.
Laura: Oh no. She's so drunk.
Matt: Okay, so it's like a flying V formation you guys are pushing in here.
Taliesin: Go home, de Rolo, you're drunk.
Matt: All right, so. You progress through the undercroft as quietly as possible. You notice as you get past the first section, you look to your right and left and the inside of these small like cubby offshoots that contain these separate ten by ten stone tombs. The walls have shelves burrowed into it, in which there are urns and small gems and offerings-- things that were buried alongside the family members as part of a remembrance.
Liam: (make snatching noises)
Laura: (make snatching noises)
Matt: Yeah, no. Don't go Skyrim on me.
Taliesin: Yeah. Not fun.
Matt: Once again, you see the doors are open, and from what you can tell, the stone lids on the tombs are pulled off and to the side. Across the way, as you move towards the center of the room to the second set of openings, you can see the far wall which, the room ends in the far side, but there is about a 15, 20-foot wide and about a ten to 15-foot tall hole burrowed into the far wall. And the closer you get, you see large piles of dirt that fill one side of the room were put off to the side as if pieces of this dig were discarded and there is a trail of dirt across the ground that appears to have not been very well cleaned to show that dirt was being moved in and out of this area. You also see, as you push two-thirds into the room, broken pieces of whitestone that had been carved into what looks like parts of walls or pillars. Support things that failed in their construction and just broke and were tossed and discarded to the side. Make a perception check.
Marisha: Oh!
Taliesin: Oh! Natural 20.
Sam: Jesus.
Travis: What the flipping fuck, man.
Taliesin: I had a one today.
Matt: A one.
Travis: And four 20s.
Taliesin: I had a one.
Matt: One of you Critters out there has to get Taliesin a really, really pretty new d20 that he has to use going forward.
Taliesin: That's shapeways.com.
Matt: Not that one! (laughter)
Matt: All right. So what did you get?
Marisha: 29.
Sam: 12.
Liam: 26.
Laura: I don't remember. It wasn't very good.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 13.
Matt: Okay. Those of you with about 25 or above, you glance and you find two of these slivers of this material you don't recognize and part of this broken stone. It's like a dark green glass. About a half an inch to an inch thick in slivers. You only find a small scattering few, and it has a grainy texture to it, and you take a look at it, and it's transparent. You can see shapes through it, but it's opaque enough to the point where it distorts a little bit of the visual and color behind it.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check on this? Is this similar to the broken glass that I collected before?
Matt: Which broken glass you collected before?
Marisha: I don't know. I just have broken glass shards.
Travis: I feel like that was the red stones or something from before.
Marisha: I feel like there was some sort of--
Taliesin: There was that sea of glass.
Marisha: Yeah, we were in some cavern.
Matt: Oh, the sea of bone and glass? Okay. Yeah, it is not similar to that, no. However, those who are trained in arcana, you can go ahead and make an arcana roll.
Laura: Trained in arcana?
Matt: Trained in arcana.
Laura: How do you know if you're trained in arcana?
Travis: Negative two.
Matt: You would have filled in, if you have a proficiency.
Sam: The dot?
Taliesin: The dot.
Laura: Oh.
Sam: Oh. 11.
Matt: You have really no idea what this glass is.
Liam: I grab it back.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: That was just me? I'm the only arcana-trained person here?
Laura: That's it?
Sam: Wow. Sorry, guys. Sorry.
Marisha: Can I try a nature check on it?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: He's like, "It's not going to tell you shit, but sure." 15?
Matt: It's glass. Most glass you understand is designed by usually sand or other materials that at a high temperature or some sort of process is melted and fused.
Marisha: So it's manufactured.
Matt: It appears to be, or naturally occurred, and the structure of it has this bumpy, wavy-- it's not like smooth glass.
Marisha: Like when lightning hits sand?
Matt: Kind of. But you're not sure what it actually is.
Laura: I wonder if this was holding that acid.
Taliesin: I wonder if something very, very hot...
Marisha: I'm wondering if it's a symptom of something.
Sam: When they burn the whitestone with the acid or something?
Laura: Do I see any recent tracks around here? Does it look like people came down here?
Matt: Make a survival check with advantage because you're a crazy ranger tracker.
Laura: 13.
Matt: You see tracks here and there, some fresher than others. Yeah.
Liam: How many of us found this?
Matt: Well, two of you saw it.
Liam: I've got one.
Matt: Yeah, you've got one piece.
Liam: And Percy's got the other?
Matt: Second piece, yeah.
Sam: You want to burn one?
Liam: I walk away from the group all the way to the back, and I take it--
Matt: To where you came from?
Liam: Yeah, towards where we came from. What's behind us? Is it just tunnel back that way?
Matt: You mean on that path you're going?
Liam: Yeah, I push through the back of the group to the back.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: What's behind us?
Matt: Where you just came from is the stairs that lead up to the castle.
Liam: I was going to throw it, but...
Travis: I see Vex looking around. Can I look for tracks as well? I'm proficient in survival, and I never use it.
Matt: Sure.
Travis: Natural 20! I swear to god.
Matt: While you sit there inspecting the dirt--
Laura: It looks like there's some tracks here, but I don't know what it's saying.
Matt: Grog, you immediately see a cluster of recent footprints, probably a day old at most, that lead in towards the tunnel. Looks like the prints are of seven individuals. Feet are fairly wide, masculine and heavy in step. One gait appears to be smaller, thinner, and more feminine.
Travis: How many tombs are open around us?
Matt: Eight total in this room.
Travis: Should we check the tombs?
Laura: They're already open and empty.
Sam: They're open and empty.
Matt: You all make a perception check.
Marisha: All of us?
Sam: Ten.
Marisha: 28.
Taliesin: 25.
Liam: 20.
Laura: 11.
Travis: 18.
Matt: Okay, 20 and above that'd be just you two?
Liam: 20.
Matt: Oh, yeah, three. All right, so you three, you notice the temperature drop ever so slightly in the room and in the darkened shadow. you look around and you see what appears to be some sort of ethereal mass drifting away.
Taliesin: Damn it!
Marisha: God damn it! Here we go again.
Liam: We've got company.
Matt: There's one round that you three get to act. The rest of you have a surprise round right now.
Marisha: What kind of mist?
Sam: Bad deadly ghost mist.
Marisha: What kind of mist?
Sam: A miasma.
Matt: Grog and Vex are out here checking this. You guys are back here. Keyleth is here. Vax, you're back here. Trinket's up with you, and Scanlan you're--
Sam: I was in the back.
Matt: So you're over here with these guys. You see one drifts out from this side, another drifts out from this side, and another drifts in from this side.
Marisha: Undead ghoulie guys?
Liam: Ghosts. Wraiths.
Marisha: Wraiths?
Matt: There is a cold chill that runs down the spine of Keyleth and Vax, as they've encountered enemies similar to this in the past.
Marisha: It's that fucking shit that turned us.
Matt: All right, let's roll some initiatives.
Travis: Just those three, right?
Matt: Just those three.
Taliesin: I feel like an asshole.
Marisha: Shut the fuck up!
Taliesin: I feel like an asshole.
Marisha: Get out!
Taliesin: I'm changing dice. This is bullshit.
Matt: Yeah, I'm banning that d20 for the rest of the game.
Taliesin: I'm changing dice.
Marisha: It makes no sense. Yes! It's a hollow die.
Taliesin: It's a hollow die. There's nothing to be weighted on it. It's a wiffle die.
Marisha: And I rolled a one!
Matt: So it's just you. Okay, so! Initiatives.
Taliesin: 28.
Matt: (giggles) Okay.
Marisha: 14.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 15.
Taliesin: Thank you for that.
Marisha: (laughing) I can't believe I did that. Rolled a one on it.
Matt: All right. Percy, you're up first. You glance around, and you can see the two entities going (hiss) towards you, towards Keyleth, and you glance over your shoulder and see one drifting out of the distance towards Vax.
Taliesin: I yell, "Look out!" And I take several steps toward Vax.
Matt: To there?
Taliesin: Actually, on the other side of the pillar so I can actually see the one that's getting towards him.
Matt: There?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: You won't be able to see this one, just those. This one actually will block your view to that one. These are about ten feet tall. These are the little sections here, so right now, you would be able to see these two here and barely see this one. It would have three-quarters cover. Which you ignore, with Sharpshooter.
Taliesin: I know. I want to back up into that corner, though, just to get away from them.
Matt: Over here?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so you can see one of them right now.
Taliesin: I'll take-- fuck. Yep, screw it. I'll take shots with the Pepperbox.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'll take my first shot.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That can't be right. Just checking. 20. Natural 20.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: With a different dice?
Taliesin: With a different die. Of course, with a different die.
Marisha: Shut the fuck up!
Travis: Who are you?
Taliesin: I'm the devil. I am the devil, and I have come to do the devil's work.
Matt: So all of you who are going to conventions to meet Taliesin in the future, make sure you get a nice long hold of his hand so you can roll better, too.
Travis: Yeah, would you touch my dice?
Taliesin: I will lick your die, because that is how I bless them.
Matt: All right, so that's your first attack. Second attack?
Taliesin: First attack.
Matt: Both at the same guy?
Taliesin: Yeah, all against the same guy.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Taliesin: First attack is 22 points of damage.
Matt: Okay, is this with the element, or not?
Taliesin: No, no element.
Matt: Okay. You fire. Just passes through it with no effect.
Marisha: Yeah, fucking misty dudes.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Damn misty dudes. I'm mocking them.
Taliesin: I spin.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Shoot with fire.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: What the fuck?!
Marisha: Get out!
Matt: Take a picture. Take a picture right now.
Taliesin: Taking a picture.
Marisha: Get out! You're the anti-Wheaton.
Sam: He's had, like, eight tonight.
Marisha: How many is that?
Taliesin: I don't know!
Marisha: CritRoleStats, how many is that? Tell us! I know you've been counting.
Laura: Ridiculous.
Sam: Go to Vegas!
Taliesin: I'll put it on Instagram later.
Marisha: Go to Vegas!
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: I go to Vegas. I don't gamble!
Laura: We need to go.
Matt: You need to go find the D&D casino.
Sam: D&D casino?
Matt: D&D casino. Make it happen, guys. I know one of you can.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: So which one is this?
Taliesin: This is fire elemental.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That's 14 points of damage, plus three damage of fire.
Matt: That's including crit damage?
Taliesin: Including the crit damage. I rolled really poorly on my damage.
Matt: Okay, so this one, the bullet does (impact noise) hit its form with a burst of flame, the bullet converted to magical due to the nature of the chamber. You can see its form (raspy cry). It disperses for a second and then re-forms, continuing its movement.
Taliesin: We need magic! I'm taking my last shot.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: That was seven, by the way. Seven 20s this game.
Matt: That's stupid.
Taliesin: Okay, see? That's better. 15.
Matt: 15 does hit.
Taliesin: All right. They're easy to hit, at least. That's such a shitty roll. 12 points of ice damage.
Matt: Okay. The ice shot (gunshot) tears through it, doing additional damage. You see part of its form crystallize from the little bit of ectoplasm that's floating in the air, but it's not enough to actually disperse its form. It continues pushing forward. You would have to reload to use those again.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm out.
Matt: Okay, that ends your turn. It's now their go. This one drifts forward to Keyleth. This one drifts forward to Grog.
Marisha: That's with our surprise round? You said we have a surprise round.
Matt: No, you guys were aware. Everyone else is surprised.
Marisha: Oh, we're the only three that aren't surprised. Oh, that sucks.
Matt: So. Unless you do anything against surprise?
Travis: Not unless I'm raging.
Matt: That's true. All right. Keyleth, I need you to make a constitution saving throw. Sorry, no, a charisma saving throw.
Marisha: A charisma saving throw? That's not great. And no saving throw bonuses, okay, so that's ten?
Liam: (quietly) Oh, she's gone.
Marisha: We've been here before.
Matt: Did you roll already?
Marisha: I did.
Matt: What did you get?
Marisha: Ten.
Matt: Ten. Okay. The ghost reaches out and embraces Keyleth. It disappears into her form and she shivers for a second, and it is no longer visible.
Laura: Oh, he's taken over her body?
Matt: Keyleth's eyes all of a sudden flare up with a ghostly blue glow, and she turns around, looking at the group with a hunger you haven't seen in her eyes. For those who see it, as well-- I should have made this happen before-- I need you guys to immediately after seeing these ghosts make a wisdom saving throw.
Taliesin: What for?
Sam: Everyone?
Matt: No, just the ones that see it.
Laura: We're all immune to fear because of the feast.
Matt: That's right, so never mind. That doesn't matter.
Sam: (laughs) Yeah!
Matt: Good reminding. So I was right, then. I didn't forget anything! All right, charisma saving throw?
Liam: Charisma saving throw?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: This isn't a charm thing?
Matt: And Grog, charisma saving throw.
Laura: Is this charm?
Matt: Nope. This is not a charm.
Liam: Okay, so a 12 for me. Am I caught, as well?
Sam: 12?
Matt: 12?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Sam: That was your last Luck, too.
Liam: No, that's two, isn't it?
Marisha: You did two.
Laura: We're going to die!
Travis: Grog is batting for the other team.
Matt: What did you roll?
Travis: Four.
Laura: (muffled) We don't even have a cleric with us!
Sam: Wait, this is against charisma?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Jesus.
Matt: And with that, three of your teammates turn around, their eyes intensely glowing with some sort of a weird ghostly glow.
Marisha: Three v three, man. Battle royale. Let's do this.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Sam: Wait, we have to fight them?
Marisha: He's going to call it at eight. He's going to call it.
Matt: Everyone else roll initiative.
Sam: We have to fight them. How is that going to happen?
Taliesin: This is going to go so poorly.
Travis: Not us. Not the possessed ones, right?
Matt: No, you guys are already on the initiative. Oh, no. Grog, you still do.
Travis: I still roll initiative?
Matt: Yeah, for yourself.
Laura: What?
Travis: I'm possessed, though.
Taliesin: Roll your initiative.
Liam: What just happened?
Laura: You have to roll initiative to see when you attack all of us.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Well, then it's good it was a one.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Marisha: Do we roll initiative, too? We're re-rolling initiative, the three of us?
Matt: Everyone who hasn't rolled yet rolls now.
Marisha: Oh.
Sam: 15.
Matt: 15. Okay.
Travis: Unless I have to roll with advantage.
Sam: Do you have to roll with advantage?
Matt: Technically, you would, yeah.
Travis: Two.
Matt: All right, and what did you get?
Laura: 13.
Matt: 13. All right. Percy, you're up first.
Marisha: Help us!
Taliesin: I don't know what to do.
Laura: We don't have a cleric!
Sam: You have-- ugh.
Marisha: I think you guys--
Sam: No, it's up to us to figure out, right?
Laura: He cast Turn Undead. We don't have that.
Marisha: Was that when Kashaw was here?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: That was Kashaw. Yeah, he cast Turn Undead.
Travis: Awesome. He's not here right now. What are you going to do?
Taliesin: Okay! What are we going to do?
Matt: What are you going to do?
Taliesin: (sighs) All right, who's the most dangerous?
Travis: Does Cassandra have any--
Taliesin: That's my first action. I'm going to use my bonus action to turn to my sister and go, what the hell do we do?
Matt: She looks at you, a little bit frustrated.
Marisha: Please tell me she trained in cleric. Please tell me she multiclassed.
Matt: She looks about, annoyed, and goes, "I'm sorry. I'm not a holy woman. I have no symbols. I have no power. I have nothing. Let's see what we can do."
Taliesin: All right. I'm--
Marisha: You guys have that holy water, right?
Taliesin: I'm backing up. I'm going to do my best to back up into the tomb right here.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Keep going to my right until the drop-off behind me, and I'm going to back up into the tomb.
Matt: Okay. Into there?
Taliesin: No, up. Towards you; the other side.
Matt: There we go.
Taliesin: There we go. I'm putting my back against the wall.
Matt: Okay, so you're up against the stone?
Taliesin: I mean that column.
Marisha: Take the damn laser pointer.
Taliesin: Yeah, there.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: I'm unloading two shots. I'm reloading and unloading two magical shots at Vax.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn some fucking points. What am I going to do?
Sam: We're fucked!
Travis: Do your worst.
Taliesin: First shot-- fuck it, I'm using the old die. I've already rolled two 20s on that one. First shot, I'm shooting to get Vax to drop his knives.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Burning a grit point to drop his knife.
Marisha: Good idea!
Matt: He has two, so you only knock--
Taliesin: One of them out of his hand. The one that doesn't auto-return.
Liam: They all do.
Taliesin: They all do?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: That crazy belt, man.
Taliesin: Shooting him in the face. Fuck it. And my gun jams. You did that!
Marisha: I touched it. I'm sorry!
Matt: (laughs) You turn around and holding your gun out at Vax, even with this ghostly form, it's so hard to do so, and you close your eyes for a second and you pull the trigger, and in a weird way you're both immediately distraught and at the same time relieved that the gun jammed. (mechanical noise)
Taliesin: (frustrated noise)
Matt: So that's your turn.
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: All right. Vax, you're up first. The ghost drives you to turn up to him as he's trying to fix the gun. Daggers out. Go ahead and make your two attacks against him. No sneak attack damage.
Liam: The first was a 13. The second was a 22.
Matt: Pretty sure the 22 hits.
Taliesin: 22 hits.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll damage against Percy.
Liam: Eight.
Matt: All right, so you take eight points of piercing damage. You feel the blade (pained cry) pierce into the side. It doesn't get too far in, but you haven't been on the receiving end of his daggers before, and it's not fun seeing what they do to others. All right, at the end of your turn, I want you to make a religion check.
Sam: Check?
Taliesin: Oh yeah!
Marisha: Come on.
Taliesin: Magic fingers.
Laura: Magic glove.
Marisha: Do you want Taliesin to lick it?
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18? That gentle glow left behind, that slight sliver of Pike's essence that went into your symbol of Sarenrae, flares for a second. It flares again, and for a moment, in your head, in which darkness has taken your vision, you feel your body moving on its own, but you have no control. You hear Pike's voice whisper in your ear from a distance. It says, "Vax? It's okay." At which point, suddenly you feel the coldness sucked out from you. The symbol flares for a second, and the ghost is thrust out of your form.
Marisha: (excited shout)
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: That is your turn, however. All right. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I read my Scroll of Spirit Guardians. I call them forth to protect us in this moment.
Taliesin: Treguna mekoides--
Sam: Hakuna matata.
Taliesin: Trecorum satis dee.
Sam: I don't know how this works. (laughter)
Matt: That's okay.
Sam: (silly voice) They attack bad things around me, and they don't like bad things, so I thought maybe that would be good. (laughter)
Sam: Spirit Guardians. The thing I bought from Gilmore. Right? Didn't I buy the Scroll of Spirit Guardians?
Laura: Yeah, you did.
Sam: They attack anything evil within 15 feet of me.
Matt: Indeed.
Sam: Necrotic damage.
Matt: There we go  Spirit Guardians. So you call forth spirits to protect you for the duration, for up to ten minutes. Your alignment is...?
Sam: Good?
Matt: Good, yeah.
Sam: Good-ish. Sort of devious good.
Matt: Okay, so here's what you do. You actually use this to create these guardians-- this spell hasn't been used, either. To a distance of 15 feet. You have to choose things within 15 feet of you, so you have these two right here.
Sam: They're both within 15 feet of me, aren't they?
Matt: So, these guys. Their speed is halved.
Sam: When they take their turn, they get 3d8 damage.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: It's a very confusing spell.
Matt: Yeah, when they move within 15 feet of you, their speed is halved, and at the start or when they enter the area, they make a wisdom saving throw or take radiant damage.
Sam: Is that now or when they move?
Matt: That will be at the end of their turn.
Taliesin: Yay, radiant damage. That's awesome.
Sam: I know.
Taliesin: You made a good call.
Travis: Nice, dude.
Matt: All right. Does that end your turn?
Sam: Do I get a bonus action?
Matt: You get a bonus action, yes.
Sam: Okay. Who's not undead right now? You? I've already inspired you once. Sure, I'll inspire you again. I've got nothing. This time, I'll just go, (harmonica noises).
Laura: I feel really inspired.
Matt: Take the lamest d10 you've ever accepted, because harmonica's not your favorite instrument. All righty. Great. That brings us to Keyleth's turn.
Taliesin: (squeaking noise)
Marisha: Did you just squeak?
Taliesin: Maybe. You don't know. Shut up!
Matt: So it turns towards Scanlan, having cast that, and you make a staff attack against him.
Marisha: (grunts)
Sam: I do a little doo-wop. (vocalizes) And that's my Cutting Words to try to distract her from her attack.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Marisha: I rolled a 19.
Sam: Do I roll now?
Matt: Yeah, you roll a d10 and subtract that from her attack.
Marisha: I rolled a 19.
Sam: Two.
Matt: So it's a 17.
Marisha: What's your AC?
Sam: I have a 17 armor class.
Matt: Roll damage.
Sam: Oh, wait! No, that's a ten. That's right.
Marisha: It's not a lot of damage, I promise. Oh, see? Even better. Four damage.
Sam: Oh. I shouldn't have even wasted it.
Taliesin: It's "ow."
Laura: It's just your little staff?
Sam: You're adorable.
Marisha: I'm still doing my granny routine.
Matt: Okay, now it has to make a wisdom saving throw, which it succeeds. It still takes half as much damage, so roll 3d8.
Sam: Who, me?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Oh. Yes. Of course I will. I will do that right now with these d8s that I have. 12.
Matt: Okay. All righty. So this burst of radiant energy burns around her. You take 12 points of radiant damage.
Marisha: 12 points?
Matt: Yep. Vex, you're up.
Laura: All right.
Matt: You see Grog turn to you with this wicked grin on his face, eyes glowing a pale whitish-blue as he brings the hammer up in the air.
Laura: Oh god! Am I close by him?
Matt: You are. You're right next to him.
Laura: I'm right next to him?
Matt: You're right there.
Laura: Oh no! I back away from him. He's going to get an attack on me.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: But I really needed to put some distance there.
Matt: Make an attack of opportunity.
Laura: Wait! Okay, that's good.
Travis: 13.
Laura: You don't hit me!
Matt: Whiff. (impact noise) The hammer hits the side of the stonework, cracking it a little.
Taliesin: Oh, that's my mausoleum.
Matt: What are you doing, Vex?
Laura: I'm going to have Trinket-- is he lined up with anybody?
Matt: Just Keyleth right now.
Laura: He can't cannonball through to Grog and Keyleth?
Matt: He can, but he'll hit Scanlan, as well.
Laura: Can you dodge, Scanlan?
Sam: We'll see. Let's do this. I always loved that bear.
Laura: Right! You deserve it. He's doing it.
Matt: We'll say Trinket backs up a little bit to get enough room on it. Keyleth, swing an attack.
Marisha: Oh, to Trinket?
Matt: Yeah. Trinket has to get enough distance to actually build up momentum.
Marisha: Oh, I think that hits. 20 total?
Matt: 20 total is exactly the AC. Roll damage for Trinket.
Marisha: It's okay. It's not a lot. Nine?
Matt: Trinket takes nine points of bludgeoning damage from the staff.
Laura: Halved?
Matt: Right, yeah, because it's bludgeoning, so five points. Trinket then rolls forward, (thudding noises). Roll attacks on Grog, Scanlan, and Keyleth.
Marisha: Trinket bowling.
Laura: Eight plus 16 is 24.
Matt: For who? Keyleth, Scanlan, and Grog.
Laura: Okay, so Keyleth is 24.
Marisha: Hits.
Laura: Scanlan is 18.
Sam: Hits.
Laura: And Grog is 18.
Travis: Misses.
Laura: No, Grog is 20.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: All three hit? All right, so no attacks of opportunity against Trinket. Roll damage, and everyone takes that damage.
Laura: I don't know what to roll for cannonball damage because I've never actually gotten to hit.
Matt: Oh, I know. I have this. It's 2d6 plus four.
Laura: Okay. For each person?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Oh, okay, so ten for Keyleth.
Matt: Ten points of bludgeoning damage.
Laura: Seven plus four is 11 for Scanlan.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Oh, less for Grog. Eight.
Matt: Eight points of damage for Grog.
Laura: And while he's doing-- I don't get to shoot an arrow. Yes, I do! I get to shoot an arrow.
Matt: Bonus.
Laura: I'm going to shoot an arrow as Trinket is hitting Grog.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh god. 14 doesn't hit him.
Matt: Nope. It hits the shoulder and gleans off and carves a little wound across his chest, but not enough to do any damage. That ends your turn. Grog.
Laura: And now Trinket is close to me, then. Did he go through them and get back to me?
Matt: Trinket, due to the line, slams into Grog at the end of it, so he is now between the three others.
Laura: Shit.
Matt: Grog. As a ghost, you just got shot and slammed by a bear. I want you to roll one d20.
Marisha: Oh, he's going to see if he raged.
Travis: 15.
Matt: 15. Your attention goes to Vex, as opposed to Trinket. You move out of the way.
Sam: And he takes 3d8.
Matt: That's true.
Sam: Eight plus nine is 17.
Matt: Well, the creature has to make a wisdom save. Fails, so yeah, takes 3d8. Yep.
Sam: 17.
Matt: 17.
Travis: 17 to hit?
Sam: No, I just hit you with 17 points of damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: All right. You're feeling the ghostly form-- you take the damage as soon as the form inside; you're feeling this dissipation. All right, so you make your two attacks against Vex.
Laura: Shit.
Travis: Oh, that's not awesome. That's 17.
Laura: Doesn't hit.
Travis: That does. 24.
Matt: Yeah. Go ahead and roll damage. The first hammer swing you're ready for. Swing backward. It goes long.
Laura: Grog! Grog, no. No!
Travis: 20 on the first.
Matt: 20 points of damage. (impact noise) First one didn't hit, did it?
Laura: The first one didn't hit, so you only get the 20.
Travis: Oh, just the 20!
Matt: Just 20, so as the first one misses, you pull back, trying to stop him, but the hammer still slams you in the side; you don't have time to move out of the way, and it pushes you up against the wall. You land on your feet, and you can feel the pulsing of the blood broken beneath the skin. That ends Grog's go. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: (gasps, sighs) "Hi!" I saw what just happened, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm going to try to fix my gun.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That fixes.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: (sighs) Are you better? Good, then let's deal with this. I'm going to start diving around the columns to get away from the wraith.
Matt: Around here?
Taliesin: Yeah, because I don't have a shot this round.
Matt: Okay, so you move around that way.
Taliesin: Yeah, cool.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn?
Taliesin: That ends my turn.
Matt: It's now their turn. This one currently loses interest in you and drifts two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight-- it (whoosh) passes through the stone. Moves through and appears on the other side. I need you to make a charisma saving throw.
Taliesin: I have advantage on charisma saving throws right now, do I not?
Laura: Oh, yeah, because she cast--
Marisha: It's not there anymore. Sorry.
Matt: Yeah. She dropped it when she picked up the concentration spell.
Travis: Roll high, golden snitch.
Matt: And that was ability checks, not saving throws.
Taliesin: Oh, then never mind. What's my charisma saving-- oh boy. Nope. I rolled a natural one. You did this! This is the third natural one. You touched it.
Laura: That's why I'm superstitious about my dice.
Marisha: I touched it.
Laura: He also touched mine, and I rolled a three.
Taliesin: I'll come back to you after Thanksgiving, baby.
Matt: And with that, it goes dark and a spiritual intent takes over your body. You feel like you're being puppeted, and you have no control over yourself. You're hidden, captured within your own form. All right, that ends his turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: You still feel the residual warmth in your glove pulsing.
Liam: All right. I'm going to click my boots together. I'm going to move towards him.
Matt: Towards Percy?
Liam: Towards Percy. Shit. I'm going to take the keen dagger and stick it into his gut, and I'm going to take the glove with the symbol of Sarenrae and punch him in the nose.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I like that you're violent instead of just going, "Healing hand."
Marisha: Yeah!
Laura: You go, "fuck you!"
Sam: Can I just say, this is Percy beating up Percy right now. (laughter)
Matt: Yeah. You're being attacked and stabbed by yourself. It's weird.
Liam: 20 for the dagger.
Taliesin: I'm not reading too much into this.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: The punch is just strength modifier, right?
Taliesin: This is not a metaphor!
Liam: 17 for the punch.
Matt: All right. Roll damage for the dagger. What's your AC?
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18. Okay.
Liam: Nine.
Matt: You take nine points of piercing damage as the dagger stabs into your stomach. As you swing to haul the punch off, the body ducks out of the way.
Marisha: Take the punch!
Matt: All right. That ends your turn.
Liam: Wait. How far did I go?
Matt: You were there, so that's 15 feet.
Liam: I want to spring back and run as far as I can in the other direction, around the corner towards the rest.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: I walk between Grog and Keyleth, maintaining my 15-foot distance. Even more between.
Matt: There?
Sam: Yeah, and I'll Thunderwave them both. Oh no, and I hit Trinket. (laughter)
Matt: All right. Constitution saving throw from Grog and Keyleth and Trinket.
Travis: Do we roll something?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: What did you roll?
Marisha: 12.
Matt: (thud) Grog?
Travis: I rolled an 18.
Matt: What's your DC?
Sam: 19.
Matt: All right, so roll damage. What's Trinket's?
Laura: You have a constitution saving throw of eight.
Travis: Oh. 26.
Matt: Okay, so you take half damage.
Laura: Trinket rolled an 11.
Matt: Okay. (thud)
Sam: Eight points of damage.
Matt: Okay, so you take eight points of damage. Grog takes four. Trinket takes eight.
Sam: Are we trying to kill our friends, here?
Travis: Yeah, get us.
Laura: Get them unconscious so they come out. But then if they're unconscious, the ghosts come out and they could possess us.
Sam: That's great.
Marisha: But they take radiant damage.
Matt: Keyleth, top of the turn, roll--
Marisha: Did I get radiant damage from that push?
Sam: No.
Matt: You take 3d8 points of radiant damage.
Marisha: Oh, I do.
Sam: From the spirit guardians. Oh, and I'll also inspire Vax. (sings) Rip out someone's tongue and I'll know you. Cure someone dead and I'll show you've got those moves with dagger. You've got those moves with dagger. You've got those--
All: (sings) Moves like dagger.
Sam: Okay. 13.
Matt: All right, so 13 points of radiant damage to you and to... okay.
Marisha: 62 hit points.
Matt: All right. Scanlan, that's your turn. Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah?
Matt: You turn around as you see Vax rush up with a look of fear and intensity on his face. You see her turn around with this twisted grin on her face, and she brings her staff up and swings it towards your head. Roll an attack.
Marisha: (whoosh) Baseball. 17.
Matt: What's your AC?
Liam: It is 18.
Matt: 18. As she swings, you duck, and her staff (impact noise) smacks against the stone wall of the mausoleum. That ends your turn, bringing us to Vex.
Laura: And I'm in a fight with Grog.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Okay. This is totally awesome.
Sam: Wait! We have Cass. Does she get a turn?
Laura: She's not doing anything.
Matt: I forgot to add her to the initiative. That's my own fault.
Laura: I just thought she was being a bitch.
Matt: I'll give her a couple of rounds here in a second. Anyway, finish up.
Laura: Trinket runs forward and tries to pull Grog's focus so that I can back away.
Matt: Okay, so Trinket moves up to there.
Laura: He tries to grapple him, or something. Can he do anything to make Grog not be able to attack me if I run away? Can he try to knock him down, or something? Jump up on his back and knock him over.
Matt: Use an action to make a trip attack. Sure, why not. Roll an athletics check.
Laura: Okay. Yeah, no problem.
Taliesin: I'm imagining a bear doing mild calisthenics.
Laura: An athletics check for me?
Matt: No, for Trinket.
Laura: Okay. 12?
Matt: Make a strength saving throw, Grog.
Travis: That's a 26.
Matt: Yeah, Trinket rushes over and tries to knock you off your feet, and you just (thud) no effect. You still have a bonus action and your movement, if you want to.
Laura: I'm going to try to roll out of the way. I'm going to try to duck down and roll out of the way to make him less likely to hit me.
Sam: Yeah! The old "less likely" trick.
Matt: Make an acrobatics check.
Laura: Okay. Oh, my dice suck tonight!
Sam: You're inspired.
Marisha: He's sucking up all the good energy.
Laura: That's good! Acrobatics. 28.
Matt: 28? Grog, roll an attack with disadvantage, just for the hell of it.
Travis: 23.
Matt: Okay, roll damage against Vex as she pulls away from you.
Travis: The first one was a natural 20.
Matt: Be glad it was disadvantage.
Travis: 21.
Matt: You take 21 points of bludgeoning damage. As you pull away, Grog (whack) backhands you with his hammer. Now you can take your bonus action, if you want to.
Laura: As my bonus action, I'm going to cast--
Travis: Kill Goliath.
Laura: Right? I don't want to use any of my shit!
Travis: Can you conjure a keg of beer?
Sam: That would distract you.
Laura: I can't, but that's a really good idea. For my bonus action, I'm going to go, help!
Sam: You can use your bonus action to throw me the gun!
Laura: Oh. No.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Cassandra is going to rush up angrily with her shortsword out. Rushing up behind Grog, she's going to make a strike. That is going to be 18. What's your armor class?
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19. She goes to strike and whiffs, unfortunately. She's going to attack with her dagger she pulls out in her off hand. Rolls a three. Yeah. I'm giving her a second round because I missed the one. She's going to angrily pull up again and attempt to strike with both a second time. That will be a 20.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: All righty. Because Trinket is adjacent, she gets sneak attack damage.
Laura: Yay! Oh, she's a rogue.
Liam: Rogue.
Matt: So you take 27 points of piercing damage. Well, it's slashing damage from the shortsword. The offhand attack is another three. Going to miss.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: All righty. That brings us to Grog. Roll another d20.
Travis: 11.
Matt: 11. Your attention switches to Cassandra. Roll two attacks.
Sam: Do I get my radiant damage on him?
Matt: At the top of his turn, you do, yeah. Actually, before that happens, roll radiant damage.
Sam: 21.
Travis: 21 points?
Matt: With that, as you're reeling up your hammer to strike Cassandra, a burst of radiant energy disintegrates the ghostly presence within your body, and you find your mind come to you as you're about to go into a downswing to smash Cassandra's head in. You catch yourself.
Sam: Do it anyway, Grog! (laughter)
Marisha: Don't!
Sam: She's one of us.
Matt: You have your turn now.
Travis: Oh, I have my turn?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Grog, I know you don't know what's going on right now, but kill Keyleth!
Travis: Okay. I turn and walk over to Keyleth.
Matt: Over Cassandra.
Taliesin: Poor Cass.
Travis: I'm going to swing my hammer at the middle of her chest.
Sam: Oh, you're scary. She's so cute.
Travis: 15.
Matt: What's your AC, Keyleth?
Marisha: 18.
Matt: She ducks out of the way with this preternatural speed.
Travis: Wow. 16.
Marisha: (cackles)
Matt: Keyleth's ghostly form is too fast for you. The confusion of the whole sequence caused you to not be able to think straight in the moment, and you miss twice. That ends your turn, Grog. Percy.
Laura: Oh, right. Percy's still--
Sam: Jesus. And he's got guns.
Matt: Your gun was just fixed, correct?
Taliesin: Yeah. (laughter)
Taliesin: Would he use the gun or the sword in phantom mode?
Matt: You just finished fixing this, and you have a gun before you. It's going to use it. Make three attacks against Vex-- Vax. I mean Vax.
Taliesin: I'm going to use this die, because it's been--
Marisha: Failing? Yeah, I touched it. Use the one that I touched.
Taliesin: That's-- I can't talk. 21.
Liam: That hits, but what's applicable? Uncanny Dodge or Evasion for a gunshot?
Matt: Whatever reduces the damage to half. It's not a saving throw, so it would be-- which one reduces the damage by half?
Liam: That's Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: Then it would be Uncanny Dodge. All right, so attack two more times.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: Hits. And?
Taliesin: 26.
Matt: All right, so roll damage three times. The first one is halved.
Taliesin: All right. 13.
Matt: So you take seven damage.
Taliesin: Fuck me. 15.
Matt: 15 piercing damage.
Taliesin: And 11.
Matt: Okay. (three gunshots)
Sam: We are so strong! We should never fight ourselves.
Matt: All right. That ends Percy's turn there. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Am I able to slide around Keyleth closer to you, into that little alcove, or am I too pressed against the wall? The other way.
Matt: Currently, it's just enemies, so you can't move past them.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: I could make you roll an acrobatics check, if you wanted.
Liam: That's all right. I flip the daggers over, and I start to whale on the back of Keyleth's head.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Pommels of the daggers.
Sam: Kiss or kill.
Liam: 18.
Matt: Are you doing sneak attack on this? She's adjacent to Grog, so yeah.
Liam: Definitely.
Matt: 18 hits.
Liam: Second one is 20.
Marisha: Hits.
Matt: They both hit, so roll damage on both.
Liam: And then 32 on the last.
Matt: Oh, that's right. So three hits, with sneak attack.
Marisha: Oh, sneak attack is going to take me down.
Liam: Three. Plus seven is ten. And the ten gets doubled? Or everything?
Marisha: Dice rolls get doubled.
Liam: Ten, 16, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 50.
Sam: 50?
Liam: 50 for the first hit.
Marisha: (laughs) I'm still alive.
Matt: Was it doubled because you rolled a critical?
Marisha: Sneak Attack.
Matt: Sneak Attack, you just roll the dice.
Liam: Well, then no. 25.
Matt: 25.
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: No worries.
Liam: Plus nine, plus nine.
Matt: Okay, so 25 plus 18...
Liam: 38.
Marisha: 38? Okay.
Matt: 25 plus 18 is 43.
Marisha: 43?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: What was I at just now?
Sam: 62. So you're at 19.
Marisha: 19 hit points.
Liam: I'm going to use-- I don't care. I'm going to slide around Grog, to the side. Towards Scanlan. Right there, yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What's up, brother?
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'm up again?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: I feel like I just went. All right. We're trying to kill our friends, right?
Liam: Yes.
Sam: Okay. Thank you for moving, Vax. I'm going to blast them both with lightning. Straight shot through, 100 feet.
Matt: Through those two? Yeah. Okay.
Sam: Yeah. What do I do? 8d6?
Matt: 8d6, and I need Keyleth and Percy to both make dexterity saving throws.
Marisha: Just the two of us? I actually have disadvantage on dexterity stuff because of corruption. 20 for me.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: You both take half damage.
Sam: 24.
Matt: You both take 12 points of lightning damage. The bolt strikes through, hitting both of you in the chest, but you both manage to pull out of the way just in time to reduce the impact of the spell.
Sam: And as a bonus action, I'll do a Healing Word on Vex. Right? You're injured badly?
Laura: I mean, not badly, but--
Sam: Oh, well then fuck it. Oh, you're injured badly? Would I know that?
Matt: You could glance over and look at him as he pulls up to you, and see him (pants).
Liam: I've got gunshots in my back.
Sam: Okay. Yeah, so I'll Healing Word.
Matt: Roll the healing points for that.
Sam: What is it? Shit. It's right here  d4 plus five. That's it?! So lame. Seven points.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Keyleth, at the top of your turn, roll 3d8 radiant damage.
Sam: Ooh, yes. Oh, this is going to knock you out.
Marisha: Hopefully.
Sam: That's nine already.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm down.
Sam: Six more is 15.
Matt: Keyleth falls unconscious to the ground as this blast of radiant energy bursts around her as this spiritual radiant form that's been surrounding the area and stalking the various individuals. It slams into her form. As she collapses, the ghost is jettisoned from her body and looks like it's been taking the radiant damage and is having a hard time keeping its corporeal form. All right, that ends Keyleth's turn. Keyleth, I need you to roll a death saving throw.
Marisha: Nope. Six.
Matt: You take one death saving throw failure. All right. Vex, you're up.
Laura: I see the ghost come out of her? Okay, I'm going to shoot it with my Blazing Bowstring.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 16?
Matt: 16 hits.
Laura: 17. I want a good one. 17. 25.
Matt: 25. As you pull back the arrow and you see the flames ignite around the shaft, you release it. It slams into the ghost, and you see its form (raspy cry) disperse from the impact, the arrow hitting the wall behind it and shattering against the stone. Ghost destroyed.
Laura: For my second attack, I'm going to attack Percy. Can I see him?
Matt: Yep, right over there.
Laura: All right, I'm going to do it. 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Taliesin: (ghost noises)
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16 points of damage to you, Percy.
Taliesin: 16?
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: Cool.
Laura: That was also through my Blazing Bowstring.
Matt: So you're using both Blazing Bowstring abilities right now?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. A flaming arrow (impact noise) sticks into the shoulder, and you can feel the flames burning into your body--
Laura: Plus another five. That was another five burning damage.
Travis: 21.
Taliesin: 21?
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: I'm still doing fine.
Marisha: I hate these things.
Matt: It's now Cass's turn. Cass, who's having a weird time with the whole process of seeing a bunch of herselves and her brothers stabbing each other and getting possessed.
Laura: How do we even know who's who?
Marisha: Stop hitting yourself!
Taliesin: Thank you for that. I was almost going there.
Matt: She's right there, and she brings herself around the way. She's not able to do any actions, so she sees another of her brothers possessed but clutching the gun in the hand, and is steeling her blade for the moment and doesn't do anything with her turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: "Percy!" And I run towards him.
Taliesin: (creepy voice) I'll swallow your soul!
Travis: 25.
Taliesin: Is no one a Sam Raimi fan? Never mind.
Sam: That was Donald Duck, right?
Travis: 18?
Matt: What's your armor class?
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: Yeah, hits. Damage on both.
Travis: 17 for the first one. 19 for the second one.
Matt: Okay, so 36 points of damage. (two impacts) You're thrown up against the wall and almost pushed over off your feet from the sheer weight of the impact.
Taliesin: It has to be magic damage, though.
Laura: It was. It's a magic war hammer.
Taliesin: Okay, so it's taking damage, too. That's good. Maybe.
Marisha: They have to be spells.
Travis: There was fire damage.
Matt: Yeah. It seems that the radiant damage from the Spirit Guardian spell you're doing has been doing the bulk of damage to them while they're inside the form. Most everything else is going straight to the individual.
Travis: Oh shit!
Sam: Oh shit!
Sam: We've just been killing our friends for no reason?
Laura: Good times.
Travis: Let's pass our--
Sam: Hold our wrath.
Matt: Percy. You have three more shots with this gun, two of which are magical.
Taliesin: I do.
Matt: So you pull up the gun, you take a step back.
Taliesin: Does he get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: You do. Attack of opportunity against Percy, if you want to take it.
Marisha: Come on, take him down.
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: That's a natural 20.
Taliesin: Yes!
Matt: Roll damage.
Travis: That's actually the first time I've critted on this show.
Matt: You get additional dice.
Travis: It does additional damage.
Matt: It's the first time you've critically hit on this show?
Travis: I think so, because I've never doubled my dice.
Matt: That's absurd.
Travis: I know. 14.
Taliesin: 14? I'm already out.
Matt: Roll damage. I want to know what it is.
Taliesin: Yeah, go ahead, but I'm out.
Travis: 18, so-- what was the first one? 18 and?
Marisha: You said 14.
Matt: Okay. You are out. Percy falls to the ground, unconscious. The spirit is jettisoned out the side. That ends your turn entirely. The ghost is going to shift over. It does not get its possession back.
Taliesin: It was just a crit. It wasn't hit twice.
Marisha: It wasn't when he was down.
Matt: Percy, I need you to make a death saving throw, by the way.
Taliesin: Yay!
Matt: Okay. The ghost gets pushed out of the body. With you on the ground and its possession not returned, it reaches down and strikes at you with its withering touch.
Taliesin: Oh, for the love of--
Marisha: With its withering touch?
Matt: You take two death saving throw losses.
Taliesin: Whoa!
Laura: He rolled a crit?
Matt: It's an auto-crit because he's unconscious.
Laura: Oh, jeez Louise!
Marisha: But you passed your first one.
Taliesin: I passed my first one.
Marisha: So you have two failures on you?
Taliesin: I have two failures and one success. So guys? Heal me. Heal me now.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Liam: I start sprinting around that open hallway near Cassandra. I stop by Cassandra and dagger, dagger, dagger.
Matt: Do it.
Liam: First one is 30. Second one is 15. Third is 28.
Matt: All three hit.
Liam: They all hit? Good. Ten plus seven is 17. 27 total.
Matt: 27 damage, total?
Liam: All magic.
Matt: All righty, so all daggers strike through its form. You see it tearing through its ethereal physicality, but it's still holding its form together. It looks damaged, but it's still holding its form on this plane. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I vault over Keyleth--
Liam: Wait. I ran 20 feet? 30 feet?
Matt: You were here, so 35.
Liam: 35? Can I run the "west" of the way--
Laura: The "west" of the way?
Liam: The "west" of the way through it in front of Percy. Yeah.
Matt: There? You can, yeah.
Liam: That's what I want to do.
Matt: All right. Scanlan?
Sam: I vault over Keyleth's body, using the right part of a buttcheek to launch off. Grab a little feel as I go.
Matt: Creepy gnome.
Sam: I try to get within 15 feet of the thing.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And as my first thing, I will Healing Word Mr. Taliesin Jaffe. Percival de Rolo de Monico de Chico...
Taliesin: (sings) It's delightful, it's de-lovely.
Sam: Just at normal level, so that's nine points.
Taliesin: Thank you!
Matt: Your death saving throws are fine.
Taliesin: Nine. Nine points! Ah-ah-ah.
Sam: Jesus. I don't want to burn another fucking thing on this guy.
Taliesin: Your aura thingy with 15 feet should do it.
Sam: I know, but that's when he moves, not when I move, so I will mock him! I will say, you're not even corporeal. You have no substance. You're a nothing. You're a nobody! You won't amount to nothing in this world! (laughter)
Matt: Okay.
Travis: (laughing) You're a nothing. You're a nobody!
Matt: What's the DC on that?
Sam: 19.
Matt: It fails its save. Roll 3d4.
Marisha: Kill it, Scanlan. Kill it.
Sam: Six.
Matt: (laughing) How do you want to do this? (cheers and laughter)
Travis: A mocking kill!
Sam: (giggles) I would like it to cry. That's all.
Matt: (laughs) As you're shouting this, you can see its ghostly form. Its face suddenly shifts into the face of a person.
Sam: You were nothing in life, and now you're nothing in death!
Matt: It recalls its memories. You can see its physical form become that of a young adult wearing robes that hold the symbol of the de Rolo crest. You see it look at its hands, and you see it look at you and look at Percy on the ground, unconscious, and it moans out in horror as it suddenly dissipates.
Sam: I'm sorry, I didn't mean it!
Taliesin: Which one of my ancestors did you just shame to death? Again?
Sam: The one who possessed you!
Taliesin: Okay, fair.
Marisha: Again! (laughs)
Taliesin: You're going to say it, aren't you?
Liam: I double back to Keyleth and start trying to administer some sort of aid.
Marisha: Hi, I'm dead.
Liam: Medicine check? Is that it?
Matt: You can make a medicine check to try to stabilize her, yeah.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18, yeah. You stabilize the bleeding. She's no longer making death saving throws. She is still unconscious. You all reconvene. Take a breath.
Sam: Wait, is Keyleth alive?
Marisha: Nope.
Sam: Oh Jesus! Keyleth, I'm sorry.
Marisha: I'm stabilized.
Liam: She needs help. Scanlan, come here.
Taliesin: Let's pull ourselves together.
Sam: I will sing a song of rest, which will give us 1d8 for everybody.
Matt: For hit dice spent, or just for the rest?
Sam: I don't know. It just says 1d8. It's my song of rest.
Matt: Song of rest.
Travis: I've got a lot of health potions.
Marisha: You do?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: That's good.
Taliesin: I've got three.
Travis: Would you like one?
Taliesin: Probably.
Laura: What if we take a short rest?
Matt: At the end of the short rest, everyone gains an additional 1d8. It's nice. Doesn't hurt.
Marisha: I come to consciousness by Scanlan's singing?
Sam: (singing) You're down with more HP. Yeah, you know me!
Taliesin: That's nice.
Marisha: What?
Travis: Hit dice?
Laura: Yeah, we can roll some hit dice.
Matt: You guys take a short rest here to roll some hit dice.
Marisha: (groans) Wait, how much did you heal us, Scanlan?
Sam: Just one extra d8. Do I roll that, or do they?
Matt: Everyone rolls it on their own. It's fine.
Sam: Holy ba-Jesus, guys.
Laura: That was insane.
Sam: Can we never do that again?
Laura: Well, we're about to, I think.
Liam: Who feels like making camp?
Sam: Making camp?
Liam: Yes.
Sam: We're in a tomb with ghosts. We have to continue on.
Liam: I'm exhausted.
Taliesin: We'll heal, but I think we need to continue down.
Laura: We need to keep going.
Matt: Cassandra looks about the rest of you, still seeing a group of herself and her brothers. She shakes her head for a second. "We can rest a moment, but I don't think we can stay here much longer. The more time we spend here, the more chance they have of returning. If they get the jump on us, we're done."
Travis: Let's go.
Laura: We need to press on.
Sam: Yeah, aye.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Let's continue.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Into the tunnel. Into the dark.
Matt: She sheathes her sword and her dagger. (sighs) "Let's do this." As you all climb into the beginning of the excavation tunnel leading to the south, slowly making your way towards--
Sam: Wait! Sorry. Percival, any point in looting?
Taliesin: Don't loot my family's crypt!
Sam: Sorry! Forget I mentioned it. Let's go kick some ass.
Matt: Making your way towards the tunnels beneath the city of Whitestone, towards whatever this ziggurat construction project has been, we will pick this up the week after Thanksgiving.
Laura: Oh man! We're taking a whole week off from this.
Matt: Yeah. We went a little late tonight to try and give a little extra since we're not going to be here next week, but that's it for the evening.
Marisha: We almost got our ass kicked by ghosts!
Sam: No, by each other.
Laura: We really need a cleric.
Matt: There were some really bad-- everyone rolled poorly on those saving throws. That sucked. Oh, yes!
Laura: Oh, man. Right. Giveaways.
Zac: We've got to do a giveaway, so I am opening the floodgates.
Taliesin: Welcome, all!
Laura: The whole time.
Taliesin: This is Twitch. Holy cow.
Marisha: I might need to burn a Cure Wounds or something.
Taliesin: I'm not at a hundred, but I'm okay.
Marisha: I burned almost all of my hit dice to bring me back up.
Taliesin: Ashley is getting home right now, in case we need her.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: We're good.
Travis: Are we?
Taliesin: Can she come in for 30 seconds and heal us?
Matt: (laughs) It doesn't work that way.
Taliesin: I know.
Marisha: Guys, I got a little bit of a connection! And gone. That's all.
Zac: We also got up to $6,000 total so far, raised.
Laura: Oh wow, that's great!
Matt: Incredible!
Zac: So we will continue that throughout the weekend, all the way up to Monday.
Matt: Thank you all so much for helping out.
Taliesin: Holy cow.
Matt: You're helping a lot of wonderful people do a lot of amazing things in places that need it.
Zac: So the floodgates are open. We're going to let that build up for a little bit and then do the giveaway.
Matt: Oh! Chat room explode!
Zac: Oh shoot, that's true. The next episode is Critmas, as well, isn't it?
Laura: No.
Taliesin: No.
Zac: Is there not? There's one before it?
Laura: No, there's another one before.
Zac: Are you sure?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: No, we're doing the Christmas Critmas a little bit earlier, so we're going to do the next one before we go on Christmas break, right?
Matt: No, the 3rd is the next Critmas. Because the 17th, our last show, is also the opening night of the new Star Wars movie, we can't go late that night because everyone's going to be gone.
Laura: Oh. So yeah, we can't do Critmas next week.
Zac: Next week's Thanksgiving.
Laura: I mean, on the 3rd.
Zac: And we've already told everyone the first week of the month is--
Sam: So the Christmas Critmas is going to be the 3rd.
Matt: It's going to be the 3rd.
Laura: December 3rd?
Zac: Yes.
Taliesin: Yeah, that will be the Crit--
Zac: Math is hard, guys.
Matt: Welcome to our late-night meetings. (all laugh)
Zac: All right, pull in a winner.
Matt: We've got a winner coming in.
Laura: Can't we just do it the second week? It's going to be a long episode. We'll have to cut it super short.
Marisha: That's what I was thinking. Can we move it to the second week?
Taliesin: Move it to the 10th.
Marisha: Christmas Critmas is going to be the 10th.
Zac: Before we officially say that, let me check the schedule, because we've already told everyone the first week, so before we say that officially, let me check the schedule and make sure that's okay.
Laura: It's going to be really hard to do it on the 3rd.
Zac: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm literally leaving the studio on the 17th for a road trip.
Zac: IEShoemaker is the winner.
Matt: IEShoemaker, congratulations!
Zac: We're sending you a message right now. Send back with your address and we'll send you all sorts of great shit. Tune in tomorrow, guys, for Group Hug. Hector's bringing a couple of comedian friends of his, and they are playing all of the Jessica Jones Alias characters tomorrow, and nobody wanted to play Purple Man.
Matt: Understandably so.
Taliesin: Creepiest character in the Marvel universe.
Zac: How do we do this?
Taliesin: He is the creepiest creep.
Zac: Whoever plays him has to know you're going to get your ass kicked.
Matt: That's Tennant, right?
Taliesin: That's Tennant. That's also who I dressed up as at the superhero party. I painted myself purple.
Zac: You did Purple Man? Why would you do that?!
Taliesin: There's an amazing photo of a friend of ours dressed as Luke Cage, just beating the shit out of me. It's amazing.
Zac: Well, that's good.
Marisha: He also sang Gogol Bordello's--
Marisha: "Start Wearing Purple."
Taliesin: "Start Wearing Purple."
Matt: It was good.
Taliesin: It was creepy.
Matt: I'm just excited to see all the Doctor Who Tennant fans watch the series for Tennant and then be like, "Oh no, no, no!"
Zac: Yeah. Sorry, guys. No bueno.
Taliesin: It's just going to be bad.
Zac: Sweet. That's it for tonight, guys.
Matt: Thank you guys so much.
Marisha: See you in two weeks!
Matt: For the next episode. See you guys in two weeks.
Taliesin: Happy Thanksgiving!
Marisha: There will still be a new comic next week to hold you guys over. And playlists. Guess whose playlist is next.
Travis: Oh, is it mine?
Marisha: You're the last one, right?
Travis: Oh, I'm the Thanksgiving playlist.
Sam: Does the DM get a playlist?
Matt: I get one.
Marisha: He does, but he'll go last. Because you always go last.
Matt: All right, guys. Thank you so much. Have a wonderful evening. We'll see you in a couple of weeks.
Marisha: Bye!
Sam: Happy Thanksgiving.
Taliesin: Happy Thanksgiving!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. Hate you, Liam. (laughter)
Travis: That was good! Really nice. Some good flavor on it.
Matt: You'll never know. So anyway! Welcome new folks. People who aren't new folks, welcome back. We have some announcements to get to real fast, then we'll jump into the actual story proper here. But, yeah! So, first and foremost, I wanted to give a big thanks and shout-out to Syrinscape, I mentioned them in last week's game, I put together my gaming playlists on their platform, and I'm going to be trying them out tonight to make sure everything works out cool, but their setup is fantastic and I'm really excited about being able to overlap audio, and things fade in and out. If you haven't checked it out, and you want to really amp up your tabletop gaming, it's phenomenal. But they're not paying for this, I'm really excited about it. So that's that, Syrinscape's awesome. Marisha, you want to talk about Signal Boost?
Marisha: Yeah! The first epil-- episode.
Laura: Epilsode!
Marisha: The first epil, of--
Taliesin: Epilay!
Marisha: Epil, epilay, epilogue. The first episode of Signal Boost went live on Tuesday. Go check it out on GeekandSundry.com. Go watch it, it's good fun. And you should go watch it so we don't get cancelled, and we'll keep making more episodes.
Liam: Is that how it works?
Marisha: Apparently!
Matt: Yeah, it's the weirdest thing.
Marisha: It's crazy.
Laura: They care about that?
Marisha: Yeah. And I talk about Rat Queens, in it, and--
Laura: Yes! I saw! It's so good, Marisha. It's really funny.
Taliesin: It's like ten minutes of your-- you have more minutes than two minutes, spend a couple of minutes.
Marisha: And I tell you about cool things that I like. That I picked out myself. My favorite things. Done.
Matt: Watch it. It's good. All right. Next thing I wanted to announce for you guys, tonight's donations, and all donations for the week, are going to be going, as opposed to 826 overall, are going to go to 826Seattle specifically, to Fearless Ideas, is what it's called there, their section up there, you can go to FearlessIdeas.org. This past week there was a terrible gas explosion in Seattle, you may have seen on the news, and it did a lot of damage to that vicinity, including Fearless Ideas, and they've had to cancel a bunch of their stuff, and they're trying to get things repaired and going. So all of our donations this evening will be going towards them and helping them get that effort taken care of. So think good thoughts and help out if you can. Let's see.
Travis: Love you, Seattle!
Marisha: Love you, Seattle!
Matt: 826. We've, next Friday, in Anaheim, at WonderCon, Friday night, we'll be doing a Critical Role panel, from 7:00 to 8:00pm, in Room 515A.
Laura: Wait, are we supposed to be at that?
Matt: Next Friday. Next Friday. But most of us will be there for that panel. We'll be doing a Q&A, answering questions, talking about the show, for all the folks that are local or coming to that convention in the Anaheim area of southern California. So, look forward to seeing you there, next Friday.
Laura: Yes, that's when we-- I can't say. I'll talk to you guys afterwards.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. We'll go over that. Mystery-- secret, I like it.
Laura: Secret, secret.
Matt: Wanted to give another shout-out to Dwarven Forge again, I mentioned them last week. You got to get a glimpse of some of the map stuff they gave us here at Critical Role to help improve our battle mats and scenarios on occasion. Their new Castle Builder Kickstarter is phenomenal, and if you're looking to do big structures and cool castle-based ramparts and parapets and everything, go check it out, it might be right up your alley.
Travis: So pretty.
Matt: So pretty. It's so pretty. Also, Laura, if you want to announce, we have some new merch up in the store!
Laura: Go check GeekandSundry.com, go to their store, right now, because they're up, and it's so awesome, and I can't wait for you guys to see, we have a Gilmore's Glorious Goods t-shirt. (cheering)
Laura: And I've been so excited about this shirt coming out, I can't wait to wear it, why aren't we wearing it right now?
Matt: (Gilmore voice) "Don't worry. Trust me, it's a fabulous shirt. Some would even say it's quite glorious."
Travis: Oh my god, oh my god.
Laura: As well as the Gilmore's Glorious Goods t-shirts, we also have exclusive Critical Role d20 rings, spinny rings. Those are limited, so if you get them, then snag them fast, because they're going to be gone.
Travis: We get one of those before they disappear, right?
Laura: I think they said they were going to set us aside some, they'd better.
Travis: They are. They're bitchin'. You spin it, the 20 is the Critical Role logo.
Laura: Why don't we have them right now?! At intermission, maybe we can grab them at intermission.
Travis: They're sick.
Matt: For those who don't know what those are, the d20 spin rings, or spin rings in general, they're actually two separate moving pieces with ball bearings on the inside, and you have all numbers one through 20 on the actual ring, and you can spin it with your finger, and it acts like a die roll!
Laura: And the d20, when you crit succeed, it's a Critical Role logo. Just putting that out there.
Travis: You can do all your life decisions based off a ring.
Matt: What could possibly go wrong?
Liam: You still can die from them, though, just to be clear.
Taliesin: Roll a one.
Marisha: And we are not held responsible if that happens.
Travis: You go straight to Craven Edge.
Liam: It's appropriately called a "die."
Laura: Whatever.
Matt: Liam!
Liam: Yeah?
Matt: You wanted to--
Liam: Sure, I could talk about a couple of things. Hey, a quick shout-out for our neighbor, Ivan van Norman's Kickstarter, The ABCs of RPGs, has three days left. I backed it immediately, because I like D&D and I have kids, and you put those two things together and good things happen. So that's good, three days left. Also, hey, if you like to put your dice in boxes, I tell you what. Wyrmwood Gaming make beautiful boxes, and if you go over to their site and you use the code critrole.
All: Crit. Role.
Liam: There it is. You get free shipping, they're beautiful, they have all different kinds of woods to put your dice inside. Is there anything else? Oh, yeah! Oh, okay. Yeah, hey, some of us, not all of us, are going to be going up to San Fran later this month to make appearances on GameSpot's show The Lobby for a couple of segments, and then, also then hopping over to hang with the guys at Kinda Funny to play D&D.
Laura: Those guys are stupid.
Matt: Which, a few of us will be running a quick little one-shot game I'll be running with the aid of one of their local gentlemen. And it should be a ridiculously ridiculous time! And it'll be a lot of fun.
Liam: And I'm curious to see, because there's going to be two DMs, in sort of a Batman and Robin-type relationship kind of thing?
Matt: Oh yeah. We got plans. I've co-DM'd before, it can be very interesting. And very chaotic. I'm excited.
Travis: Going to kill everybody.
Matt: Probably.
Laura: This has nothing to do with announcements, but I want to only roll green dice tonight. For Saint Patrick's Day.
Marisha: That's a good idea, I've got a set of green dice. I'll get them out. Sure.
Travis: That's stupid. I have gray-ass dice and a blue one.
Marisha: Got to get them all out.
Matt: This is technically light green, guys, by the way, just so you're aware. Cool. Just making sure we're all cool on that.
Travis: Plus the underwear you're wearing.
Matt: Shh, that's just for you.
Liam: Travis and I are wearing green snake shirts, because (Irish accent) Saint Patrick drove the snakes out of Ireland, into Burbank.
Matt: Drove the Slytherin from Ireland. He got rid of them all.
Travis: Yeah. I took the Floo network.
Marisha: And I got this in Ireland, so it counts.
Laura: It kind of counts, Marisha.
Marisha: It counts.
Liam: (Irish accent) It's fucking Irish wool!
Marisha: And this is green.
Travis: Yeah, made from real Irish cats.
Matt: They are the best, aren't they? Last but not least, unless anyone else has any other announcements to make, anything else?
Taliesin: Oh! I got a quick one, Book of Murder came out today, so you can hear me do a very weird accent, it's great. So. Yes. Very weird accent.
Matt: And last, next week, we'll have a special guest joining us for an episode, a new guest, the intrepid Nerdist himself, Chris Hardwick, will be coming in for a game next week. (cheering)
Matt: Oh, I'm excited! We made his character this past Monday, and it should be a lot of fun. He's actually fun to game with. We've played D&D a couple times, and he'll be a good addition to the team for his brief stop by. So next week, come check him out on our show!
Travis: Uh-oh, what does that mean?
Matt: So thanks for coming, Chris. I don't know, it'll be fun.
Taliesin: Cleric, is what it means.
Matt: Hoping every guest is a cleric. Just in case.
Travis: Save us! From ourselves.
Matt: All right, then. Without further ado, unless you guys have anything else, we'll go ahead and hop into a quick synopsis of where we are in Critical Role.
Liam: Shit. Help. Help. Help. Help.
Matt: Sam will be here shortly, guys, don't freak out. He's dealing with children and traffic.
Taliesin: Not at the same time.
Marisha: Damn it, you beat me to it. I was going to say those two aren't mutually exclusive. Children and traffic.
Matt: So. Where we left off. The party of Vox Machina, having to deal with the current terrible danger of the Chroma Conclave, a collection of very dangerous dragons that have torn through the entire Tal'Dorei countryside, have then gone on this quest to collect allies, and find these items called the Vestiges of Divergence, these artifacts of ancient wars that carry great power and seem to be the best way you could prepare yourselves for going up against these terrifyingly powerful entities. In searching for this, you went and made your way to Vasselheim, where you reacquired and reestablished friendships with Zahra and Kashaw, two allies from previous instalments of our wondrous adventure, as well as getting Lady Kima on loan from the Platinum Sanctuary of Bahamut, and you all went to seek the first bit of information you discovered about one of these vestiges, not too far from Vasselheim. The champion of the Raven Queen's armor that had been entombed within this temple that had sunken beneath a lake. After traveling to this lake, finding your way through this subterranean, watery location, you found the location of the tomb, upon which, a series of fish creatures, called kuo-toa, had seemingly been worshiping another denizen of this temple, a rather strange slime-covered beholder, that then surprised the party. The battle hard-fought, you came out victorious, and upon going to retrieve your spoils, a trap was set off in the tomb, dodged by one, survived by a bear, and claimed the life of our beloved Vex'ahlia. After a resurrection ritual attempted by Kashaw, the party helping, they were successful in bringing her soul back from the other side, restoring her to life, and the party then, figuring out what their next step in their journey was, took their new allies, via Keyleth's Teleportation via Plants spell, back to Whitestone, which seems to be building as this defensive bastion, this currently not on the radar of the Conclave location that needs defenses, and a good place to keep your allies at the time. And that was where we left off, as you guys had just stepped back into Whitestone.
Laura: We haven't actually slept yet, then.
Matt: Nope!
Laura: It's late.
Marisha: What time is it here?
Matt: I'd say through the evening's travels-- Well, you guys slept all night the night before you went to the temple, the temple's probably been--
Marisha: That's true, we did sleep, actually, we camped out.
Laura: We did?
Marisha: Remember? You talked to Zahra, and I talked to Kash? Then we slept.
Matt: Yeah, you guys did camp out.
Laura: Oh. I didn't know if we camped, I thought we talked.
Matt: You talked.
Marisha: We at least chilled. I don't know.
Matt: Regardless. You found your way to Whitestone. We'll say for the sake of the current setting, you've come in in a rather overcast mid-afternoon in Whitestone, you may have spent some time there gathering yourselves as your allies scope out their new surroundings, the people of Whitestone accepting you as you arrive, you can always see people walking by and catching a glance at the group of heroes known as Vox Machina that helped liberate them from the oppressive Briarwoods not long ago.
Taliesin: Keep crawling out of trees.
Marisha: It's always weird. Not crawling out of trees, that people like us.
Travis: Should we inspect our spoils?
Taliesin: I was going to say, we should take the armor and the necklace to the castle and have it inspected.
Laura: Is Lady Allura here?
Matt: Kima, who is with you, is like, "Is she?"
Laura: No. Well, she was on her way to Westruun, and we haven't heard from her yet.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: "Haven't heard from her since-- You say Westruun was under attack as well?"
Laura: Yes, but she knew it. She was going in secret.
Matt: "That prideful woman." She slings her hammer off her shoulder and slams it to the ground and says, "Well. If she doesn't arrive in the next few hours, I'm going to gather a party and we're going to go to Westruun and find her."
Travis: Yeah!
Marisha: Kima-- Wait, what? Why?
Laura: Wait, there's a dragon there, Kima, a very large one, and she was being very, very stealthy--
Matt: Her hammer slams into her metallic armor, and she goes, "I've a much bigger dragon backing me up." And she looks up to the sky for a second and grins.
Travis: Lady Kima don't give a fuck.
Laura: We'll wait, Kima.
Matt: (frustrated sigh)
Laura: Going in loud will only cause more trouble.
Matt: "I'll wait a few days."
Laura: She should be here by then.
Marisha: I can always attempt to scry, and see if I can check in on her.
Matt: "Okay. Not a bad idea."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "Okay. I need a drink."
Marisha: Let's get somewhere safe.
Matt: She charges off, looking for the nearest tavern.
Marisha: Here, I guess. I don't know. I forget it's not overrun by vampires, I'm sorry. Sorry, I forgot; it's all right now.
Laura: Maybe somewhere safe, like right here--
Marisha: Like right here, sorry, there's a lot going on.
Matt: Zahra and Kashaw looking around expectantly as you continue this conversation. Kash crosses his arms, goes, "Great place. There's a lot of white." Of which Zahra comes and steps over and is like, "Don't worry, darling. (laughter) So, sleeping arrangements, I hope?"
Laura: Yes, the castle.
Taliesin: We'll be putting you up in the castle.
Matt: "That's what I like to hear. All right. To the castle, Kash?" "Sure. It's better than, well, it's better than anything. Let's go for the castle." And they both make their way towards Whitestone Castle, to find a comfortable place to get themselves situated in their new surroundings.
Laura: So we're healed up, we are healed, we are not running the risk of dying at any moment, because we've been healed.
Matt: What is that? What is that blur of green?
Travis: It's a fucking leprechaun, get it!
Sam: Sorry, sorry, sorry.
Liam: You should be.
Marisha: Your shirt, is that new? Because I love it so much.
Sam: Thanks! But I'm also wearing a tie because it's a special night.
Laura: Right. It's a special occasion.
Sam: (sighs) So, is Allura dead? (laughter)
Travis: Kima just left, so--
Laura: She's on her way to a tavern. Kima's drinking it up. Grog! Kima's drinking it up.
Marisha: Are we heading to a tavern?
Taliesin: We're heading to the castle. We're going to talk to friends, we're going to take a look at--
Travis: Corpse armor, hello.
Marisha: Oh, corpse armor.
Travis: Yeah. You know, the thing that almost killed our friend over here?
Laura: It did kill me. According to you.
Taliesin: It-- yes.
Travis: Yeah, but, I mean, you're here, so you didn't die. But you did. But you didn't. But you did. And then you didn't.
Laura: Thanks, Grog.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All right, so. You guys all heading to the castle?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You head to the castle. Cassandra isn't there at the moment, but Keeper Yennen is currently there with a few other members of the makeshift council you guys put together towards the end. One of the heads of the entire farming establishment here in Whitestone is with them, and they're having a conversation. As Zahra and Kashaw burst in first, he's like, "I'm sorry, we're not currently taking visitors, could you-- Oh. Friends of yours, I presume?"
Taliesin: Good friends.
Laura: Helpers, actually. They're going to be here for a while. Hopefully.
Matt: "Gracious. Oh, I see you yourself carry the vestments of a man of the cloth. Who brings your power this day?" Kashaw gives him a look and goes, "You don't even want to know, buddy." Walks past him.
Taliesin: That was a really good Kashaw.
Matt: "Very well! I assume they're staying here as well."
Taliesin: Yes. We appreciate it greatly.
Matt: "They'll be taken care of, Percival."
Taliesin: They will be well worth your time. We also have something that needs a bit of study. We found something. We found two objects of power that we think may help us turn the table against the dragons.
Laura: Two objects?
Matt: "This is good news."
Taliesin: Two objects.
Laura: What was the second?
Taliesin: There was a necklace.
Laura: There was?
Taliesin: There was.
Sam: You were dead.
Laura: Oh. I must have missed it because I was dead. That's right.
Matt: "Dead?!"
Taliesin: It's been a very long day.
Sam: Mostly dead.
Marisha: Be very careful when handling this armor, is what we're trying to say.
Travis: Or don't handle it, and we'll take care of it.
Matt: "So, the armor is what killed you?"
Laura: No, actually, a trap that Percival set off is what killed me.
Taliesin: Yes, the--
Liam: What?
Taliesin: -- trap was a bit-- it was a bit, ah-- there was a trap. And it was well-protected.
Liam: What?
Laura: What, what, what? What?
Taliesin: Yes, what.
Laura: What?
Travis: (mutters) He didn't know that.
Laura: What? So these Vestiges.
Matt: "Vestiges."
Laura: These leathers, these things.
Matt: "Um--" And he puts a couple of small, armored, like, studded-leather gloves on and has to carefully reach out for the vestments as you hand them. And he grabs them. "Give me a bit of time with them, perhaps, I need to clarify what this enchantment may be. Do you mind staying around, just in case?"
Taliesin: Not at all.
Matt: "Don't feel strange that I don't trust this, but, based on your history with it, I would like a little backup." So, he carries you off down the far hallway, you didn't get this far into Whitestone when you initially came through, but towards the back there was a small study area converted into a research establishment largely set up for the ziggurat beneath the city. He clears off an area of the table and sets this down. And he takes some time working with the vestments before he eventually, and it's this awkward quiet of hearing him mutter to himself and bring out a symbol and bring over a minor enchantment to reveal information, that tearing into the divinity, the divine magic that is granted to him, before he says, "This carries the mark of the Raven Queen, a very strong mark. I've not seen power like this in but an object."
Laura: It was worn by one of her champions. The great Purvan.
Matt: "That's a strange name."
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: "Regardless, it appears that this armor does help fortify one's defenses from any sort of physical damage, as well as give you a chance of surviving even the most dangerous of near-death experiences. It also grants a fluid resistance to the elements. Here." And he hands it over, and-- who would like to take this? Item card to--
Travis: Well, you died for it, you--
Laura: I think I like it, but I'll just look at it.
Marisha: It's leather?
Laura: It's leather.
Matt: So, to give you the specifics on it, it's plus two to AC. Magical on top of the studded leather armor. Plus two enchantment, beyond just the studded leather armor. It does give you advantage on death saving throws.
Sam: You'll need that.
Matt: As it is called the Deathwalker's Ward, and once per short rest, you can set it to be resistant to one of the five types of damage.
Laura: You choose which one.
Matt: You choose. You can change it. You can leave it all on one, but if you want to change it during a short rest, you can shift it from fire or cold, or lightning--
Travis: Acid, or necrotic.
Sam: You're, like, indestructible now!
Marisha: Do you have fancy leather armor right now? What does your armor do right now? Anything?
Liam: It's acid-resistant.
Laura: My armor's acid-resistant, I sort of stole it from my brother. Do you want your acid-resistant armor back, then?
Liam: Whatever you want, Vex'ahlia.
Laura: He's in such a sour mood lately.
Travis: Well, yeah. Well, what about the necklace?
Matt: "The necklace as well?"
Taliesin: I hand it over.
Matt: He takes it, and he goes, "Well, the chain on this necklace is not actually part of the enchantment, it's merely to hold the crystal itself. The crystal is the item of particular interest here, this-- oh, wait a minute." He takes it and he scans over the table and pulls up a jeweler's eyepiece and inspects it closely. "There's something inside this gem."
Travis: Uh-oh.
Marisha: (groans) Not again.
Laura: What is it?
Marisha: Why do things like living in gems? It can't be comfortable.
Travis: It might be a worm.
Laura: It's like tequila.
Matt: "I can't actually ascertain the nature of whatever being is encased within this, but--"
Laura: There's a being, it's a being?
Marisha: Encased.
Laura: Is it a soul gem?
Marisha: Like something put it in there.
Matt: He takes a moment and concentrates on his holy symbol of Pelor, and you can see as he puts aside the eyepiece, his eyes glaze over with a grayish, frosted white color, at which point he inspects the gem very closely, and there's this slight vibration in the air around him. As soon as it fades about a minute later, he pulls back and goes, "This is referred to as the Raven's Slumber. It's actually a small gateway to a tiny pocket-plane."
Sam: A pocket-plane?
Marisha: Ooh.
Matt: "It can contain one creature. You have to contact whatever it was, and it can't be too big, but it can essentially contain something indefinitely within this."
Laura: But something's already in there?
Matt: "Something is already in this."
Travis: Awesome.
Sam: Something that we can summon?
Marisha: Any way we can find out what it possibly is before we summon it?
Matt: "Unfortunately, I do not have that capability."
Laura: It was buried with--
Sam: I'll take that.
Laura: Oh, that's really smart to give to Scanlan.
Travis: Well, like, you said "not too big" though, right?
Matt: "The confines of the space, at least, as part of the enchantment, seem rather small. A bit larger than you, maybe, but not much more than that."
Travis: Right, right, okay.
Matt: "Here."
Travis: Please.
Marisha: Well, does it change size?
Laura: This is maybe the worst thing that Scanlan's ever held outside of that gun that you had, Percy.
Travis: What are you talking about? Can we take it in the woods, open it up, and if it sucks we kill it, and if not, we've got a new pet.
Marisha: We don't even know how to open it up! Do we know how to open it up?
Travis: Oh, we will find a way.
Laura: It was buried with the Raven Queen's champion, I mean, it could be incredibly dangerous. Or it could be incredibly good, and he trapped it, and they're bad, right?
Liam: The same could be said about your new pajamas.
Laura: They are so beautiful. I do like feathers.
Travis: What do they smell like?
Laura: (sniffs) Like (sniffs) must and mold. And birds, really.
Travis: (laughing) And birds? Eesh.
Matt: "So, is that all you require of me?"
Travis: I require Percy to tell us what the fuck's up with the necklace he's reading about.
Taliesin: Just what he said.
Laura: Yeah, he already told us about it.
Sam: Once we release whatever is inside of it, we can use this necklace as a weapon, to--
Taliesin: It's a cage.
Sam: To trap people.
Marisha: Hang on, okay. Let's think about this. What do we remember from the great Purvan's story?
Laura: Well, let me look at my book?
Marisha: What did he fight?
Sam: I just remember that Purvan's story touched me. Touched me in inappropriate ways.
Travis: (laughing) No, no, no.
Laura: You know what I like about this particular piece of paper is that you made it on cardstock so it's extra special instead of the regular paper.
Matt: It's legendary.
Taliesin: Legendary cardstock.
Marisha: Can we get purple cardstock up in here?
Laura: I'm talking to Matt, bitches. Okay. I forgot what I was going to say-- Oh, my book! My 30-gold book! Does it say anything about what Purvan fought?
Matt: All right! You read through. There were many, many things throughout the war that were fought: entities from the Nine Hells, there was a faction of the Abyss that came in as a third bit of evil in this whole conflict; and while not in alliance against the other forces of chaos, there were many forces of chaos lashing out at what was nearby. So the Champion's-- there was no specific entity that was his chosen, or at least, what you can ascertain to be a specific being of hatred, although it does speak of Purvan, the Champion of the Raven Queen, keeping with him an ally.
Laura: Like Trinket.
Matt: It doesn't say the nature of the ally, it just says the dangerous and respected Galdric.
Laura: (gasps) Galdric.
Taliesin: Well, there are some options here.
Laura: What?
Taliesin: No, that won't work, damn it.
Travis: Well, say it, come on.
Taliesin: Well, I was thinking we could find a safe place, surround it, let it out, and if it's dangerous, take care of it. We could even take it down into the pits beneath the castle so that if it's a magical creature, it would be harmless. Except I don't know if we could actually release it down there. I don't know--
Laura: Yeah, what if it touches the thing, and it--
Sam: There's also magic resistance down there.
Taliesin: Yeah, which means it wouldn't work in the first place.
Marisha: What if he's friendly? I mean, he talks about being an ally.
Taliesin: It might be an ally.
Marisha: Well then, wouldn't we want to save it?
Laura: An ally of Purvan! An ally of Purvan's!
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Is Purvan a good guy?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: I thought the Raven Queen was not good!
Taliesin: No, the Raven Queen--
Marisha: She's like-- neutral.
Taliesin: Can I make a roll for this?
Matt: Make a religion check.
Taliesin: Okay, thank you. Nope, nope, it's St. Patty's Day.
Travis: Don't kill anybody.
Laura: Yeah, with these green dice.
Taliesin: Religion or history?
Matt: Religion.
Travis: Religion.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: 11. The general essence of the Raven Queen she is both loved and feared in equal parts. She does not lord over the afterlife, the underworld, whatever you may call it-- she lords over the moment and the transition of death, which is largely considered neither a good nor evil, just a natural force. It could be accepted either way. Many men fear it, and fear her for that reason, and there are those that instead embrace it as the inevitable. As to the true nature of her intent, no one really knows. It's part of her mystique.
Travis: So, like, even if we let out the glorious Ball-lick or whatever his name is, like, if he's bad, we can't really put him back in, right?
Taliesin: No, we actually can. Actually, we can put him back in.
Travis: What, we touch him with it and he goes back in?
Sam: Correct.
Matt: After a saving throw.
Marisha: Maybe we should save him and release him when he'll be valuable to us?
Taliesin: So would a trap. We could also trap other creatures--
Laura: It's like a Pok Ball! Right? It's like a Pokmon?
Taliesin: Yes, it's exactly like a Pok Ball.
Marisha: Who knows if he'll go back in willingly?
Taliesin: You don't have to go in willingly, that's sort of the point.
Matt: I guess you could technically use it that way, yeah.
Marisha: But wouldn't we rather be friendly with him than him be angry at us the next time we release him?
Taliesin: I'm more excited about the idea of carrying around an empty trap.
Marisha: But we could win both. But we could have a trap and a friend.
Liam: I think Percy is right that we should let it out now because it's a question mark, no matter what. Whatever, it's all theories. We don't know what we're getting into, and better that it pop out now, on its own, and not while we're facing a fucking beholder.
Laura: I think we should do it in the forest outside of Vasselheim.
Taliesin: Or the forest outside of Whitestone.
Sam: Vasselheim? We're here.
Marisha: Why don't we try and do a little bit more research on Galdric first?
Sam: That would be too careful.
Travis: Yeah, come on. Come on.
Sam: Vex! Just open it!
Liam: Percival. Are there any libraries here?
Taliesin: Not really, anymore.
Liam: What about a personal collection in your family?
Taliesin: Didn't they ravage most of our collection?
Matt: Elements have been ravaged. Elements of family history have been destroyed so that there couldn't be large connections, or the end of the bloodline itself being too prominently displayed within the castle itself. There is still a library there, though from your knowledge-- and you've read through most of those books growing up-- a lot of them are loose history books; a lot of them are more encyclopedia-like, general knowledge--
Taliesin: She wasn't a revered deity in this part of the world, we don't have a lot--
Laura: All right, yeah, let's do it. Woods!
Travis: Woods! Woods! Woods!
Taliesin: Woods, or Vasselheim, that's actually not a bad idea to get far away from Whitestone.
Travis: No, because then somebody else'll come along and kill it.
Sam: Plus they don't like magic.
Taliesin: This is sort of our secret, and we should perhaps keep this--
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Well, we were going to go take a look at--
Marisha: (muffled) What if--
Travis: You got shit in your mouth.
Marisha: We g-- mm, sorry. Little bit of saliva.
Liam: Goodberries?
Marisha: Snacks. We go to those goliath caves, right outside of Whitestone, that were abandoned.
Travis: Stone giant caves?
Marisha: Those!
Travis: Shit. Made me feel like I had to poop for a second, there. Goliath caves, fuck.
Marisha: Sorry! I just remembered you recognized them. They were empty, and abandoned, we could go there.
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: Is that close to your family?
Travis: Nope.
Marisha: No, we saw it on the way into Whitestone.
Taliesin: It's just a couple hours away, correct?
Laura: Oh.
Matt: It's, I'd say roughly three, three and a half hours northwest of here.
Laura: Let's do it!
Matt: Yeah, it's where the forest of the Alabaster Sierras ends and the actual Alabaster Sierra mountain range begins, is where that transitions.
Taliesin: We can take a day and do this.
Laura: All right, sure. Let's do it. All right. What do you think? Good idea? Good idea?
Liam: Sure, yes, yes, yes, Keyleth had a good idea, yes.
Matt: All right. So.
Laura: We're healed, yes?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: We're healed, right? Did we sleep? Do we need to sleep?
Liam: I thought we rested before we went down under the water, though--
Laura: No, we did, we didn't rest since then.
Liam: I don't remember resting afterwards. And I was there.
Travis: I don't either. I remember I peed on a lake, and then we went under it.
Matt: Yeah, I think you guys decided instead of resting to come to rest here in Whitestone.
Laura: Yeah, we need to sleep, y'all!
Taliesin: Let's take a sleep, and we'll do it in the morning.
Travis: What time is it, about?
Matt: I'd say by now, with as much time as you spent in the temple, from waking up in the morning, it's getting four in the afternoon, five in the afternoon. The sun's starting to come down, so.
Laura: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself.
Sam: Aren't we going to sleep?
Laura: But it's four in the afternoon! There's other things to do today.
Marisha: Like drink?
Laura: Like find out how Gilmore's doing and see Pike.
Marisha: And I should probably scry and check in on Allura, right?
Taliesin: I've got some work to do.
Matt: It's up to you guys. Yeah, and you're starting to push towards the bottom of your ammunition stack anyway, Percy.
Taliesin: I need to, yeah, to do a little-- and I've got a little thing I want to work on.
Matt: Cool. All right, so, who's doing what first?
Taliesin: I'm going to take Vax aside very quickly.
Travis: Let's do that first!
Taliesin: I had a careless moment, and I apologize. And you're the first apology I'm putting forward. I don't know if I would have done anything different, but I hope you know that I would've never forgiven myself.
Liam: What're you talking about?
Taliesin: I rushed in and triggered the trap that almost killed your sister.
Liam: That killed my sister.
Taliesin: I can't say that.
Liam: What do you mean?
Taliesin: I was careless.
Liam: Well, what happened, Percival?
Taliesin: I felt the danger had passed, and I moved too quickly, and opened the casket without thinking. That's all. I just didn't think.
Liam: You just opened it? Just like that?
Taliesin: I was tired, wasn't thinking. Sometimes we move too quickly. But I want you to know that it would've-- I'm very glad that she's alive, because I don't think I could have lived with myself.
Liam: All right. Could you do me a favor?
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: In the future-- If there is anything that your little heart desires inside of a box-- In the future, could you check with my sister or myself first?
Taliesin: That's the hope, yes. That was more of a lesson than I was hoping for. Thankfully not too much of one.
Liam: Well--
Taliesin: And none of us are beyond mistakes, but... that is a mistake that I am going to be thinking about for a very long time. We are going into dangerous territory, and we all have to think a little bit more. And she especially, I-- I couldn't--
Liam: Well listen, Percy. We are not playing a game.
Taliesin: No.
Liam: And we will all make mistakes, and I wager I will make my fair share. I've little doubt. And Percival, I want to apologize. I'm sorry. But-- And I punch him in his know-it-all fucking mouth.
Matt: Do you attempt to move out of the way, or take it?
Taliesin: Yeah, let's take it.
Matt: All right. (impact sound) Decks you square in the-- for as hefty as a punch it was? Doesn't hurt quite as much as you expected. But it's not the physical pain that hurts, more than the action and the knowledge that there are more repercussions to your rash decision than even you initially anticipated.
Liam: Goodnight, Percival.
Taliesin: Goodnight, Vax.
Sam: It's four in the afternoon! (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to work. I'm going into my studio.
Matt: All right, who else wants to do something?
Marisha: Where'd Kima go?
Matt: Kima is actually-- she's begun day-drinking into the night! So yeah, she's currently by herself in one of the few functional taverns in Whitestone. It's fairly empty at the moment, especially at this hour as the sun slowly sets. She's not heavy drinking but she's definitely nursing a tankard and quietly contemplating as she sits at the edge of the bar with her hands around the tankard. She's staring at her reflection as she spins it slowly on the wood. You can hear it (scuffing) on the woodgrain.
Marisha: Anyone else want to go to the--
Laura: I'm going with you, yeah.
Matt: There's like a few other random patrons, but no one catches your eye. No one specifically.
Sam: I'll come, too. Well, actually, wait. Grog, what're you doing?
Travis: Nothing yet.
Sam: I'm with Grog.
Matt: Okay. So the two of you, into the tavern-- she doesn't notice you guys.
Marisha: I go up and put my hand on her shoulder.
Matt: "Keyleth!"
Marisha: Hey! How's it going?
Matt: "Better."
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: I lean up against the bar, next to you guys.
Marisha: Want to check in on Allura?
Matt: "Let's do it."
Marisha: Is there an empty room around here?
Matt: She looks over to the barkeep. You all stare over and the barkeep is currently there like wiping down the bar section. "For how long?"
Laura: For a couple hours.
Marisha: Doesn't need to be that long.
Matt: "Two silver?"
Laura: We saved your life? And the entire town.
Matt: "You are fine to use it as you please for the remainder of the afternoon. Just don't mess it up, please."
Marisha: Sure. We'll try really hard to find better things to do with our time. Okay.
Matt: All right, you make your way up and the place is fairly vacant, there are a couple of rooms that are currently partially-- the doors are ajar and you hear voices in there, and you recognize it's a couple of the refugees that you guys brought over from your keep, currently holed up in this tavern. An inn floor on the second floor. But there are a number of open rooms right now that you could go ahead and step into for use.
Marisha: Just pick one.
Matt: Okay. So. Do you want to go ahead and attempt a Scry ritual?
Marisha: Yes!
Matt: Focusing on...?
Marisha: The flower that I gave her before we left.
Laura: Ooh, good call.
Matt: All right, so. As you all sit down, Kima sitting across from you, arms closed. She looks at you intensely with this really direct glare, waiting for some sort of sign of an answer or information. As you complete the ritual preparation of the scrying, your vision transcends your form, jettisoned through the ceiling and into the clouds. Clouds rush past, you can feel the wind pushing across your face, your hair, and as the clouds part you see, below, you see Westruun. And from Westruun you can see most of the city, as you recall, and a large portion of it currently looks toppled-over and pushed into ruin. There are no longer burning black clouds, but white smoke, long after a fire or some sort of an impact, lazily drifting off some of those ruins. It focuses even closer, and you see very little populace in the streets. Most everyone's either indoors or not visible at the moment. Your vision clicks in once again, and you can see currently some sort of dark room hidden in Westruun. You see, for a brief instant, a flicker of light, and you see Drake Thunderbrand and Allura both gathering a few small books under their arms, silently waiting, quietly. You hear (impact sounds) some heavy footfalls above. They both just stay quiet, stay quiet. Allura stays still for a moment. She looks over at Drake. They both take hands and then (whoosh) convert into that same energy form you saw that jettisoned out of Greyskull Keep, that echoes down a long hallway that you previously didn't see was attached to this room. It leads to a stone spiral staircase that goes upward before these two dual sparks travel through the small crack between where the edge of a trap door and a wooden floor is as the sparks course upward into the now-setting sun. You can see amongst the sparks the mostly collapsed rubble of the Cobalt Reserve, the large library in the center of Westruun. You can see dozens of corpses that have been largely dissolved. You can see what remnants of their bodies have been eaten away by some sort of caustic material, their arms and fingers tightened up as the muscles pull into this horrible, gnarled visage of what once were the living residents of Westruun. You do see, as the spark comes to a stop for a second in its movement, and you hear briefly overhead (wingbeats) and you see rush overhead, wings fully spread, the black dragon that you had briefly encountered in Emon streak upward, roaring loudly, towards Gatshadow, the tall, dark spire mountain just north of Westruun. (whoosh) And as it heads up there, the sparks (electric sound) continue their trek through the streets, and at that point the ritual fades, its vision unable to maintain its focus. Your vision is pulled back up into the clouds and then thrust back into your current position and with a shock you find yourself back in the tavern.
Laura: What did you see? Is she all right?
Marisha: She's alive, her and Drake both are alive.
Matt: "Good. Where are they going?"
Marisha: They're at the Cobalt Reserve, which is in ruins, as well as the rest of Westruun.
Laura: Did you see the dragon?
Marisha: Yes, the black dragon is there. Looks like he's taken up residence in the black spire-- tower. What was it called?
Laura: Gatshadow?
Marisha: That one.
Marisha: Gatshadow. Allura--
Laura: Could you communicate with her when you scry? I don't know how it works.
Marisha: No, I can just look in and see.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: She was grabbing the last few important tomes, remnants left from the Cobalt Library, I mean, Reserve.
Matt: "They staying in Westruun?"
Marisha: It didn't look like it.
Matt: "Where are they going?"
Marisha: I don't know, I didn't see.
Matt: "Did you talk about where you--"
Laura: We left word. And told her we were coming here.
Matt: "Here to Whitestone?"
Laura: Yes. If you wait, she'll be here.
Matt: "Who else is coming?"
Laura: Drake.
Matt: "Drake. Anybody else on the Council coming?"
Sam: We brought some Council members, right? Were any among our--
Matt: You're not there, you're with Grog.
Sam: Oh, that's right, I'm sorry, oh, I'm not there! (laughter)
Sam: So, Grog! Want to play some bocce ball? (laughter)
Marisha: I don't know who all's coming.
Laura: Uriel.
Matt: "Dead? Well, that's great. That's fantastic. What about the rest?"
Marisha: His wife and children are here.
Matt: "Here, okay."
Marisha: As well as Gilmore.
Laura: Gilmore's Glorious Goods.
Matt: "Right, right."
Laura: Wonderful place to buy all sorts of products, if it were still... standing.
Matt: "Huh. I've only heard things, I've not met this 'Gilmore'."
Marisha: You haven't met Gilmore!? Man, I just assume everyone knows each other.
Matt: "Anybody else? Tofor?"
Laura: Yes, maybe...? Yes, Tofor...?
Marisha: He might have... been... slain...?
Laura: Which one is Tofor?
Marisha: She's the dragonborn--
Laura: Yes, Tofor-- they did, I think Tofor is-- definitely maybe here.
Matt: Last you heard, two Council members that were confirmed still alive by Gilmore when you found him-- or, confirmed by Uriel's wife and family-- thank you, sorry, were Tofor and Asum.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: So both were two of the ones that were saved by Gilmore, and then once he was too wounded to continue, they left to seek for survivors in Emon. That was the last you heard of them.
Laura: Oh. They're not actually here, then. Yes. They're looking for other survivors, Tofor and Asum.
Matt: "In the place where this-- and what's this dragon you keep talking about?"
Laura: Oh, shit, you don't know anything. Thordak! Big. Terrible. Red.
Matt: As you say the name again, you can see her eyes resonate with a clarity, and where once was this very intense expression and air of demanding information suddenly recedes into this look of sudden fear, and she's briefly lost in thought.
Laura: Yes, you defeated him once. He escaped the Fire Realm.
Marisha: Not only did he escape, he tore a giant tear in the rifts between the Fire Realm and ours.
Matt: (sighs deeply) "Thordak." And you can see, she's starting to hyperventilate suddenly, like, for all of her strong exterior, this is the first time, aside from the brief hit of the beholder's ray earlier, you see fear in her eyes, and she starts standing up. (pants) "I need to get some air."
Marisha: Kima, Kima, it'll be--
Matt: "I need to--"
Marisha: Sit here, you want to sit down?
Matt: "I need to get s-- I need to get some air." And she storms out of the room.
Marisha: Let's go outside.
Laura: Actually, Keyleth--
Marisha: What?
Laura: I shut the door behind Kima.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: I want to talk to you.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: I would ask my brother, but, knowing him, he would walk away. What happened?
Marisha: Keyleth has a hard time looking her in the eye.
Laura: Look at me, Keyleth! Be strong! You're royalty. Tell me what happened.
Marisha: Vex, I don't want to ever see you like that again. I don't want to ever see anybody like that again.
Laura: I grab both sides of her face and force her to look at me. I'm all right. I'm still here. Okay? I need you to tell me what happened. Because between us? Vax is off. Something's wrong. And I need to know what it is.
Marisha: We all watched you die.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: It's like--
Laura: How did I get back? Who brought me back? Kashaw, Zahra, my brother. Anyone else?
Marisha: I guess... you could say, probably an unseen entity, an unseen force. Oh, I'm lightheaded.
Laura: Sit down.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: There's a bed. Sit down.
Marisha: Percy--
Laura: Percy helped.
Marisha: Let's skip that. When we brought you back, Kashaw performed a resurrection ritual.
Laura: Like we did with Pike.
Marisha: Yes. And he called upon a deity and at first he was afraid that it was Vesh. Which he was quite terrified about.
Laura: His wife.
Marisha: Yes. That, I don't believe, is the presence that answered his call.
Laura: Okay. Fluttery words here, darling. Get to the point.
Marisha: I thought I was going to lose you both. I thought I was going to lose you and Vax.
Laura: Why Vax? Did he get hurt as well? No. What did he do?
Marisha: He-- I don't know. I don't know what he did. He said to take him instead, is what he told the entity. He offered his life for yours. And my biggest fear was that neither of you were going to come back. He offered his life for you. And for all we know, that offer was accepted.
Laura: Right.
Marisha: If I had to guess, it was probably the Raven Queen herself.
Laura: Well. It's rather suiting, isn't it?
Marisha: He seems to do that quite a lot.
Laura: Yes. Keyleth? Thank you, dear. And I leave.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I stay behind and burst into tears.
Matt: Okay. Grog and Scanlan! What're you guys doing? (relieved laughter)
Liam: (Grog voice) Go fish.
Travis: So-- what do you want to do?
Sam: I don't know. I hadn't really thought about it. Do you have any games with you?
Travis: No.
Sam: Anything in the Bag of Holding?
Travis: I think there's some orc parts in there that've been in for a couple months.
Sam: Doesn't sound very fun.
Travis: Right. I got all nervous when they mentioned a goliath's cave, so I need to go boom-boom.
Sam: Should I play a song so no one can hear it?
Travis: Might help. Like, stand guard outside the door.
Sam: Yeah, yeah. A little muzak.
Travis: Would you mind?
Sam: It's what I'm here for.
Travis: Can I go drop some ordnance?
Matt: And as you find one of the few local ramshackle outhouses-- none are quite goliath-sized, and it's an uncomfortable experience, but thank God you brought a bard along or you would have woken up half the populace just going to bed, as Scanlan, I--
Sam: Nothing to see here, everybody! (plays random chords on the harmonica) Nothing to see here!
Travis: (coughs, then farts) Oh!
Laura: Okay, okay, okay, okay. (laughter)
Travis: Now, the music's playing, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: It's just a stall, just me?
Matt: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: All right, can I take out Craven Edge?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: All right.
Marisha: In the outhouse? Sorry, keep going!
Travis: It's the palace, this is where all the best thoughts and conversations happen! I don't know how it is at your house.
Liam: Keep in mind how confined it is, okay?
Travis: Yeah!
Liam: And go. (laughter)
Matt: Yes. (grunting)
Sam: Sounds like a rough one in there, buddy!
Matt: As you (chuckles) as you see one of the wood boards splinter out the side for a second--
Sam: Ah, yup, that's tacos!
Travis: You might want to play a bit louder and maybe take a few steps away, it's about to get violent.
Sam: No problem!
Travis: Yep.
Matt: At that moment you focus, and as you can feel the blade itself grow cold in your fingertips, you can see what little bit of light that filters through the bright orangish-red color that's coming from the sunset, you can see a reflection in the obsidian blade as a voice comes to your ear and says, "You fed me well."
Travis: Yeah, I did, right? I mean, we are really doing well. Question: so, when we were fighting that big Earthbreaker Groot-looking guy, he called you a 'dark weapon'. Does that-- do you have feelings, and did that hurt them?
Matt: There's a brief pause before you hear this long, drawn-out, (heavy sigh).
Travis: Right, hold on! No, no, listen. And I take my thumb and I run it against the blade real quick.
Matt: Okay. As you do, all of a sudden the voice goes, (gasp, contented exhale).
Travis: Right, yep, sorry, listen. So, my question is, as much as I love opening up people to feed you, I want to know, like-- what's in it for you?
Sam: Grog, are you talking to your shit?
Travis: Yeah, no, you got to let it know who's boss!
Sam: Okay.
Matt: The voice creeps in again, this time. "There is no feeling more terrifying than hunger. And I hunger forever. You help satiate that hunger. That is our arrangement. I give you the strength of those you cut down, and I feed upon them. If this is unsatisfactory, I can and have found others who are more willing to be part of this arrangement--"
Travis: No, no, no, I'm a big fan, really, I mean, I am yoked out when I'm using you, it's fucking amazing. I mean, people are flying apart, it's like a dream. But listen, can you ever be... full?
Matt: "I have never been full before. Perhaps you're the one to find out."
Travis: I'll bet I am, actually, you're really lucky you found me and not these other blokes, not even half the man I am. But listen, so, there's no, like, endgame, just to be clear, you just want to drink and drink, 'cause I've seen the blood, right? And usually I wipe it off, but you, like, suck it in, and that's a little unsettling, not going to lie.
Matt: "My hunger grows, but the air tarnishes my blade. Perhaps we can continue this conversation elsewhere."
Travis: (farts) Right, yeah, right. Not even a problem. Well, look, I like the way you cut people open, so we'll continue this another time. And I sheathe him.
Matt: All right. As you sheathe, the last thing he says is, "Don't forget: I hunger always."
Travis: I kick the door open, and I'm like, if you're within 200 feet, back up!
Sam: No one's out here, Grog.
Travis: Oh.
Sam: Just me. Are you all right?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: I heard you say something about blood.
Travis: Yeah, no, am I sweating? It was a real workout, that one.
Sam: At some point you said, "Are you full?" Are you talking about-- did you fill it all the way up?
Travis: Yeah, the privy, you know, it was starting to give my bum a tickle.
Sam: Wow!
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: You topped it off!
Travis: Yeah. Because, you know, you don't want to, like, dip in the muck, it's, you know--
Laura: Foul.
Sam: Not at all.
Travis: Did you want to--
Sam: I think I'm good.
Travis: Are you sure? I warmed it up for you, it's, like, ready to go.
Sam: I love a good deuce, but not today, I think.
Travis: All right. Fair enough. But I'm feeling so, like, vacated--
Sam: We should go get a bite.
Travis: I think you're right!
Sam: (laughs) All right, let's go.
Travis: (laughing) Okay.
Matt: Okay. You guys are getting a bite. Percival, if you want to go ahead and make a tinkering check with dexterity modifier to create more ammunition.
Taliesin: Tinkering check with dexterity modifier?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Should be plus 11.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16, okay. We'll say, in the time that you've had here, with the materials you purchased, and Whitestone's pretty open to supplying you--
Taliesin: I've got a thing.
Matt: Yeah, I'd say you're able to create roughly 40 or so simple bullets in the time that you have.
Taliesin: Do I have time to poke at a modification to the explosive arrow? I want to try and build a rock breaker. I'm curious to try and build an arrow for taking down walls or taking down doors.
Matt: Like a siege arrow?
Taliesin: A light form of siege arrow. Basically, I want to have a tip that actually manages to breach stone and then an explosion that goes outwards, so it's a shattering arrow.
Matt: All right, this'll take the remainder of your evening. You're not going to be able to do much else after this.
Taliesin: I have nothing else to do.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make a tinkering check with your intelligence modifier.
Taliesin: Okay. So... That's 23.
Matt: 23, okay. At the cost of roughly 150 gold pieces, as you have to go through a few different attempts to finally get the design right, and the metalworking you have here is not perfected. You're not at your workshop back at the keep, unfortunately, so you have to work with whatever you have here, and nothing here is designed for the--
Taliesin: No, I've got an okay workshop here.
Matt: Yeah. The one that you used before, previously, but that's from mostly discarded and-- in the time that you've been gone, it's been cannibalized for a lot of different uses. But it's makeshift. You manage to complete what you think could function. You're not entirely certain as to what the final effect will be, but it all seems to be in place.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: So you can write down 'Explosive Siege Arrow'.
Taliesin: Siege arrow.
Matt: And we shall find out in time what it does.
Marisha: Siege arrow. That's fun.
Taliesin: A few things I've been working on, and that's one of them.
Matt: So. Are you guys resting for the evening? Anything else you wish to accomplish?
Laura: That would probably be smart. I'm pretty tired after dying, so I'm going to go to sleep.
Matt: Okay. Vax, anything you want to accomplish before you--
Taliesin: God, the guilt. Okay. Yeah.
Sam: Can I buy a torch somewhere? Just a torch?
Matt: Sure! Yeah, torches are relatively easy to find. You want to try one?
Sam: Three.
Matt: Three torches. That's three copper.
Laura: I bring Trinket into the castle with me, just so you know.
Matt: After all this has happened, Trinket has been, like, almost locked to you. Even you going upstairs into the tavern, Trinket was like, (plaintive bear noises) stayed out front, 'cause Trinket's learned at this point, you can't really go into all the taverns.
Laura: It's hard, it's hard.
Matt: It's rough, being a bear.
Sam: And wherever we're eating, does it happen to be near Jameson the painter's workshop?
Matt: No, but it's about a 20-minute walk, if you wanted to go find him.
Sam: Be nice to check in with him. Grog, do you mind walking with me?
Travis: Absolutely not.
Sam: All right, so we'll truck on over to Jameson's.
Matt: Okay. You head up to it, and this gentleman is a painter as well as a stablehand, so you find your way to the facility, knock on it, and immediately as the door opens, the smell of fresh manure hits your nose and Jameson steps out. "Can I-- you!"
Sam: Yes! Hi!
Matt: "Hi!"
Sam: I've come back.
Matt: "I meant to deliver, but they told me not to, because apparently it's not there anymore?"
Sam: The town, you mean.
Matt: "Town, yeah, where I was supposed to deliver it to you."
Sam: It was wise of you to keep this precious artifact here, because it would've surely been destroyed en route or when it arrived--
Matt: "It's just the canvas, I don't have a-- It's a bit too large for my specifications of framing, but--"
Sam: I'm sure it's huge. Did you finish it?
Matt: "Yes, yes! Come, come!"
Sam: Can I look?
Travis: Oh please, oh please!
Sam: (laughing) Okay, let's go look!
Matt: He takes one of the hooded lanterns and turns up the oil wick on it, and as he turns away he brings you into the back stable area where it's been sectioned off, and you can see there's paints that have been dropped all across the ground and the hay, it's this multicolored spattering, this rainbow vomit across this section of hay floor, and there in all of its glory, stretched across and nailed at the corners to this far, far wall, you see a fantastical landscape of rolling hills and treelines rising up at the edges. You can see a mountainscape in the distance. The lighting he uses is magnificent. You can see why many people in the city specifically requested that you go to this gentleman. There atop this fantastic green hilltop, you see on this fine white and grey steed as it raises up, hooves in the air, is yourself, shirt open, chest slightly fuzzy and muscular. As you look off, your hair blowing in the breeze--
Sam: How's the face? How's the face?
Matt: The face is pretty damn spot-on.
Sam: Yes! (laughter)
Matt: The best likeness you can find for somebody who only had a brief reference, as he sketched you quickly before he left, and there behind, clutching you, from the side you can see Pike wearing these long greyish-silver and blue robes that are also flowing behind, a long train-- longer than it needs to be, stylistically it was a choice in the artistics point of this-- it is everything you hoped it would be. You paid good money for this piece.
Sam: I'm going to request-- Grog, I need a minute here.
Travis: Oh, yeah. I understand, take--
Sam: Just to weep.
Travis: Take all the time you need.
Sam: So I regard it for a few minutes, taking in the beauty and the wonder of all I've accomplished--
Marisha: I have a question. Would Keyleth and Scanlan be crying in rooms at the same time?
Matt: Right now? Yes. For different reasons entirely.
Sam: (singing) Somewhere out there...
Taliesin: (singing) Somewhere out there...
Travis: Look at the air, look at the air high-five. There it is.
Sam: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Taliesin: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Marisha: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Travis: So white. That was the whitest of white high fives ever.
Taliesin: I'm imagining this as a canvas of Lisa Frank majesty, by the way. Like, the greatest Lisa Frank Trapper Keeper cover in all the land.
Matt: Oh, man. (laughter)
Sam: After I weep for a few minutes, I thank Jameson again and how much did I pay him for this thing? You've gone above and beyond, Jameson, and I know that you're a humble man and you don't want me to spread word of your accomplishments, but please allow me to write you an epic poem or a song and tell of your artistic gifts and talents, please.
Matt: "That would be a fine tip, sir. Please, yes, do so."
Sam: I'll get right on it.
Matt: "Send them back to Whitestone, please, ask for Jameson. The more I work this, hopefully I can make my way out of this dunghole."
Sam: Don't worry, you'll have lots of commissions after this, I promise you.
Matt: "Great."
Sam: And I'm going to give him an extra 50 gold.
Matt: "I, um--"
Liam: That's more than the price of a book.
Matt: "Sir, I-- thank you. Thank you, thank you."
Sam: For art supplies to get your shop up and running.
Matt: "Of course." He looks down and he's gotten a little bit of paint on the coins, he's like, (muttering and stammering). He puts it aside somewhere. "Thank you--" Wipes his hands off on a nearby rag. "Thank you." And takes your hand and shakes it vigorously.
Sam: So, can it be--
Matt: Yeah, he goes in and he takes his little claw hammer down, starts pulling the nails out from the sides and gingerly rolls up the canvas. It takes a good, like, three minutes to roll the thing up, and it's quite heavy as he hands it over to you-- (heavy grunt) In your hand, yeah, it almost takes you off your feet.
Sam: Grog! Grog!
Travis: What?
Sam: Can you hold this for me?
Travis: No, it's you, I mean, you're so magnificent in it--
Sam: No, I can't do it.
Travis: I don't know it-- I really--
Sam: Grog! I watched you shit for an hour!
Travis: Hey, all right, I'll pick it up.
Matt: All right. You guys find your way out. At this point night has taken; you can hear the crickets starting to spread throughout the city. As the rest of the blue night sky takes on-- Evening is ready, do you guys have anything else to accomplish before the evening comes to a close?
Liam: Wait 'til it's quiet. And I leave the room that I've been given at Whitestone. And I find my sister's door. And I stand outside it, and I stare at it for a minute--
Laura: Vax? Is that you?
Liam: And I stealth away.
Laura: I open the door.
Matt: Roll a stealth check, roll a perception check.
Laura: Shit.
Liam: 25.
Laura: 22. Damn it.
Matt: Nothing to be seen. Must have been your imagination, Vex.
Travis: He's good.
Liam: And I wait for the door to close. And then I walk to Keyleth's door. And I knock.
Matt: You hear a knock at your door.
Laura: And horses.
Matt: The clomping of horse hooves in the distance, apparently.
Marisha: I open it. Hey. Hi. You okay?
Liam: I don't know.
Marisha: Come in. Sit down.
Liam: I go in.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: How do you feel?
Liam: I don't know. All I know is... that I felt her. I don't know magic, I don't know anything. I open doors, and only when the wind is blowing in the right direction, sometimes, I think. I don't know what happened, but I felt her.
Marisha: Do you still feel her?
Matt: Make a perception check, Vax.
Liam: 22.
Matt: As you're sitting there, looking down at the ground, as she asks this question, you notice the symbol of Sarenrae that you have stitched into the back of your glove, what was once a very vibrant, goldish-brass color has actually very heavily tarnished, and the metal itself seems to have cracked in three places. It was not this way a day before.
Liam: Yeah. I don't know if I did anything in there, and I wouldn't take it back if I did, but I don't know what I'm doing.
Marisha: I don't know if it was very noble or very stupid, to be honest. Probably a little bit of both. I can attempt a Greater Restoration spell, and see if I can sense anything.
Liam: I don't know anything about any of that. I'll let you.
Marisha: Can I?
Matt: Yeah. So as you prepare your mindset for the cleansing ritual that is the Greater Restoration--
Marisha: Just lay back.
Matt: As soon as the dull green energy begins to course across your fingertips, and as you touch the edge of his shoulder to impart his body with the cleansing energy, it courses through his shoulders, the spell completes. You sense no difference in your current physicality, mindset, and there's this pause, this silence, of no realization, that is suddenly shattered by the sound of a (caws). You look over and at the stone edge of the window you guys are staying in, you see stepping there a single dark raven, (clicks, rapid flapping) and it takes off and flies into the night.
Marisha: I think this goes beyond any natural realm that I have any bearing over. And I hug him. I thought I was going to lose you. And I'm terrified I'm still going to.
Liam: Keyleth, I love you.
Marisha: And I think I love you. I just don't know if I can allow myself to. I'm terrified to allow myself to. You do realize that, if by some crazy chance, we all somehow make it through this domination alive, with the Chroma Conclave, and I complete my Aramente, I'll still watch all of you die. Everything could go phenomenally well. And by becoming Headmaster, we enter a bit of a realm of immortality where I could live for a very, very long time. I'm afraid every time I look at one of your faces that it's going to be the last, and I feel like deep down I know that day is coming. So because of that I'm afraid to let myself feel anything deeper than I already do.
Liam: I quickly leave her room.
Matt: The door closes behind Vax.
Marisha: And for the second time today Keyleth bursts into tears. Why do people keep leaving me in rooms alone?
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Stop it, you're wasting water.
Marisha: We're in a drought, god damn it!
Laura: When was the last time you showered, Keyleth?
Marisha: It's been a while.
Taliesin: Makeup's runny.
Liam: Go water elemental.
Matt: It's the only way. All right, as you all find yourself coming to rest for the evening, some of you easier than others, eventually you get your full rest. Those who heal up to, say, full hit points for a good night's rest here, get your hit dice back, so not a whole lot were spent.
Travis: I lose my strength bonuses.
Matt: Morning comes to you all, and-- yes?
Liam: Sorry, just one detail. From there, I went and fell asleep in this idiot's doorway.
Matt: Okay. All right. We will go ahead and take a quick break, we will see you guys back here shortly to see what is in store for Vox Machina. So we'll be back here in a minute. [break]
Liam: Matt, shit on my face.
Matt: Welcome back, everybody!
Sam: It's too close!
Laura: They caught it, that one caught it.
Matt: That was pretty close.
Liam: All they heard was "ace."
Matt: It's all good. Welcome back, guys. We're going to go ahead and jump back in. So as you all, after that, for some, emotional evening, whether that be conversational emotion or, you know, having to go drop an emotional deuce. You know, that's important. You find yourselves waking up to a fresh morning in Whitestone, hints of blue sky breaking through the cloud coverage, and that's rare for this area because it's the northern portion of the continent, you know that, especially being so close to the ocean, a lot of the cloud, heavy precipitation makes its way in the direction of your town, so it's nice to have a little break in that. Nonetheless, as you guys come to consciousness and gather yourselves, your things, and your plans for the day, what do you wish to do?
Taliesin: We are a city of seasonal affectation disorder, so.
Laura: Well, I open my door and find my brother falling through it.
Liam: I'm awake.
Laura: Oh, good morning.
Liam: Hi.
Laura: Comfortable bed, I see.
Liam: Yeah. Sorry, I couldn't find my room.
Laura: Yeah, it's confusing, all these, all these doors.
Liam: What time's it?
Laura: I have no idea. My nature check tells me it's roughly, I dunno, eight? Nine? Something like that. Seven? Maybe seven.
Liam: Come here, you shithead. Don't fucking do that again.
Laura: It's not like I did it on--
Liam: Don't fucking do that again, all right? Just don't fucking do it again.
Laura: All right.
Liam: Fuck.
Laura: I can't breathe. You're about to kill me again.
Liam: You'll live, you'll live. Jesus. Whoever that is.
Laura: So-- (laughs) I heard a rumor that you sort of saved my life in a really creepy sort of way. I talk to people. I talk to so many people. I find out things. Secrets aren't safe when Vex is around.
Liam: Is there any coffee in this fucking castle?
Laura: Wait, wait, wait, I have a present for you, because I feel like you're going to really like it. Would you like it?
Liam: That's random. All right.
Laura: I have this armor that I think would be really great on you. Do you want it? It's really expensive. If you don't take it quickly, I might change my mi--
Liam: I don't want it.
Laura: Oh, that was expensive cardstock. (laughter)
Liam: I'll give you the leather armor after I have a chance to change.
Laura: All right. I love you.
Liam: (softly) I know. I know.
Laura: Let's get breakfast.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: From that point, the smell of coffee begins to fill the air from the inside of the Whitestone castle halls. The servants have prepared breakfast, and a meal is ready for you. Grog jumping to attention as the scent reaches your nose. The rest of you all slowly find your way back down. You eat--
Marisha: Do we come out and see Vax in the armor?
Matt: Are you putting on the armor?
Liam: I'm just looking at it in the hallway.
Marisha: So I guess I step out and see him looking at it in the hallway.
Liam: Still pretty tired, to be honest. Didn't sleep a lot in the doorway.
Matt: Yeah. Some of you guys step out, and you see Vax standing in the hallway, clutching in his hands, looking over all the various, like, pushed-in, engraved runes across the leatherwork, the raven feathers that adorn the bottom of the mantle.
Laura: Careful, it smells a lot like must and mold and birds.
Marisha: I walk by and... briefly lock eyes and keep going without saying anything.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Oh shit, you got the armor now?
Laura: He stole it, what can I say? He is a really sneaky, stealthy kind of guy.
Travis: Nice.
Laura: Yeah. Fair and square.
Liam: I just took it for fashion purposes, I suppose.
Travis: Oh, you need all the help you can get.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: Should we go out in the woods and unleash an undead beast that will kill us all?
Travis: Yes! Christmas morning! Who has that, by the way?
Sam: I do.
Travis: Oh! Yeah!
Sam: Don't worry, it's safe.
Travis: Where d'you keep it?
Sam: Oh! Hold on-- Got a pouch or some-- you know what? It's back in my room.
Matt: All right. You go retrieve it.
Sam: Got it!
Travis: Where's Percy?
Laura: Where's Pike? We should bring her with us. Can we bring Pike with us? I know she's taking care of Gilmore, but.
Sam: Mm, that's possibly more important. I think this thing'll be fine!
Laura: We need some sort of somebody that can heal, I think we've learned this for ourselves.
Sam: I can heal!
Travis: Yeah, we got potions, we're fine. It's probably, like, a big Saint Bernard. What's the big deal?
Laura: (sighs) Okay. We learn nothing, carry on.
Travis: Where's Percy?
Taliesin: I'm right here.
Travis: Oh! Shit, you were quiet. Hello.
Taliesin: (coughs) Hello. Good morning.
Travis: Need any coffee? An enema?
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: A coffee enema?
Taliesin: What!? No. I'm fine. Good morning.
Liam: I'm going to walk off with this shit.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And we go outside with the necklace.
Sam: Yeah, where're we headed?
Travis: The woods!
Laura: No. The caves. I thought we were going to the--
Marisha: Going to the caves on the edge of the woods.
Matt: Yeah. It's the caves that are--
Marisha: Going to go through the woods.
Liam: (sings) Into the woods!
Matt: So. You all gather together and make your way northwest of Whitestone, towards where you found the stone giant fortress and the series of caves that are in the mountain behind it. You get there; it's still seemingly abandoned. You case the area for a while. No noticeable movement other than a few woodland entities that exist in that vicinity.
Laura: Primeval Awareness! (radar sounds)
Matt: Okay. That is now the sound it makes every time you do it.
Laura: I like it.
Matt: Yeah, so hold onto that one. I'll make that a new ringtone sound for you guys. What are you looking for?
Laura: Oh, there's so many things I could sense!
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: What about sirens?
Laura: Sirens?
Travis: Wait, what are those things called? The things that took our horses the last time we were here?
Matt: Harpies?
Travis: Yeah, yeah, whatever.
Laura: Sure! Harpies.
Matt: For how many miles is it?
Laura: Six miles!
Matt: Six miles? Yeah, there's a few blips on the far, far western side of here. You get the essence way off in the mountains, there's maybe a small nest. Nothing that's immediately dangerous.
Laura: What about if I sit for one more minute and I think if I can sense any giants.
Matt: You do, to the far, far north. You get the sense that there is some sort of giant-based lifeform maybe two, three miles north of you.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: How's it look?
Laura: Well, I mean, clear of the things I checked for. No giants.
Travis: Sweet! Let's go! Up to the cave!
Matt: All right. So the fortress or the caves behind it?
Travis: Fortress or cave?
Laura: Were they both empty? I don't remember.
Taliesin: Everything was empty, if I recall.
Travis: Yeah. Small space.
Taliesin: Let's do the caves.
Laura: All right, sure. Cave.
Travis: Yeah. Cave.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Oh, if we stick to the woods, it's my favored terrain. If we go into a cave, not as much.
Sam: The caves would contain it. It can't fly away or anything.
Travis: So is it like, cave-fortress, are they same level? I can't remember.
Matt: It's a pathway that leads up into a small ravine in the mountain pass where you guys originally walked down into Whitestone. Up against the north side of where the mountain meets that ravine, there's a big stone fortress that is built into the side of the mountain, and then around that are a series of smaller caves.
Liam: (singing) Anything can happen in the woods.
Travis: Yeah, let's go to this fortress, then we got more room to move in case it does suck.
Sam: All right, fine, fortress.
Matt: You guys find your way inside, the cold morning air still has encompassed the stone floor itself, you can see there are still the scattered and slowly decomposing bits of meat and flesh in the far corner, you still see the splatters of blood that have turned black and cracked as it dried. No corpses here, as the corpses were retooled by the Briarwoods while they were in control. The fortress other than that is still empty, and seemingly untouched since you last left it.
Sam: All right, well, I'm just going to do it then!
Laura: Wait wait wait!
Marisha: Wait wait wait!
Marisha: Wait, there's doors open to the cave, right?
Sam: We're in a fortress.
Taliesin: We're in a fortress.
Marisha: Fortress. Whatever.
Matt: (laughs) Coffee's just starting to kick in for you guys.
Laura: Just barely! Do we have any buff spells or some shit that we should cast, to make us cooler?
Marisha: Should I throw a wall up?
Sam: A wall for what?
Marisha: Do I need to bar the entrance? Or are there doors?
Taliesin: Vex, by the way--
Matt: There are doors, but they're partially ajar where you left them.
Laura: Aww, put it on, it's useful!
Liam: No. We're not having this conversation.
Taliesin: Vex, by the way, I've got something for you.
Laura: What? Yes, dear?
Taliesin: And I pull out the arrow.
Laura: What is this?
Taliesin: This is an evening of unbridled guilt. Come here, let me show you. In theory, this is a siege arrow.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Shattering stone, shattering doors, breaking things that should not be broken.
Laura: Breaking hearts left and right?
Taliesin: If that is what you're after. It should work! Never forget you're my favorite, and I'm so sorry.
Laura: I kiss him on the cheek. Thank you, Percy.
Taliesin: That was much nicer than your brother.
Laura: Is that a black eye?
Taliesin: (stammering) I didn't sleep.
Laura: Huh. This is lovely, I can't wait to use it.
Taliesin: There'll be more.
Sam: All right, in three, two--
Travis: Wait hold on, hold on hold on!
Taliesin: In a circle! Aim it into the center of the circle.
Liam: And is it three-two-one, three-two-one-do it, or three-two-one and go,
Sam: On the one. On one.
Taliesin: It's Jenga, one one-thousand two one-thousand three one-thousand four one-thousand.
Sam: Should one of us leave the room in case it comes out and paralyzes all of us? Just going to throw that out there.
Travis: Oh yeah, we should, what do you call it, spread out?
Laura: Yeah, definitely, let's all surround it and make sure we're not all clumped up.
Taliesin: If only someone had armor that could make them immune to paralysis.
Liam: That's not a bad idea, you get controlled by things. Maybe you could wait just a little bit further back?
Laura: This was somebody's pet, all right? It's probably not smart enough to take control of our minds.
Liam: That's a big if.
Travis: I don't mind stepping out, but I would like to be able to see.
Laura: Yeah yeah yeah!
Liam: Yeah! We won't shut the door, I just want you outside of any potential blast radius.
Taliesin: Let's spread out in a circle; we'll let it loose in the center, that way it can't even see all of us.
Laura: All right, I like it. It only gets to see Scanlan.
Sam: It can see me.
Laura: I'm going to stealth.
Sam: Well, when a thing is born, it latches on to the first thing it sees, like its mama.
Liam: Yes, we're going to hide.
Matt: All right, stealth check from both of you guys?
Marisha: So we're going to try and talk to it?
Laura: Yeah, Scanlan's going to talk to it.
Marisha: Scanlan? You prepared?
Laura: Natural 20!
Taliesin: You just teleport, there's like a phase effect.
Matt: The two of you back off and find the nearby shaded corners, where some of the haphazardly tossed hides and furs are in the corner, you vanish behind the alcoves keeping a watch.
Laura: Trinket, don't stand next to me, it gives it away. Go stand next to Keyleth!
Travis: Is there a doorway in the fortress?
Matt: Yeah, there's the main doorway you guys entered, which is two--
Travis: Can I stand in that, then?
Matt: Sure, you stand there, in the entranceway that's pushed open, which is wide enough for a giant to push through. You got a little bit of room to each side, but you're there.
Travis: Vax, is this g-- Vax?
Taliesin: It's fine, you're fine.
Sam: Here we go, guys.
Marisha: So, those two are stealthed-- I'm at Scanlan's left shoulder, back a bit.
Laura: And Trinket's next to you!
Marisha: And Trinket's next to me. I'm rolling with Trinket.
Taliesin: I've got a little bit of distance, yes, that's good.
Matt: All righty, and there's Percy here, and Travis is off this way. Good to know.
Sam: I don't know how to use this thing.
Marisha: Yeah, we don't know how to use it.
Sam: By the power of Raven's Slumber, I command thee: (yells) awaken! Beast! Cruel or otherwise! Face your new master, and know his name is Scanlan! (laughter)
Travis: (laughing) Oh, holy shit! Never could've been better.
Matt: As you spend your bonus action to release the gate hold on the crystal, you guys see as he thrusts his hands forward, there's a burst of shadow energy that, almost like someone throwing a big pot of water, this blackness goes out of it, and then as it hits the ground, it spills into smoke on the ground, and as that dark form stops, it is in the form of an about waist-to-lower-torso-height creature. As the form coalesces into its normal self, you can see before you, shaking its head, a rather large, dark grey and black wolf. (growls, snarls)
Sam: Easy, easy.
Travis: Told you it was a dog.
Sam: Garlic? Galdric, Galdric, easy, Galdric. Easy. We're friends. Here.
Matt: He's backing up a little bit, snarling. You see Trinket starts growling, (growls).
Laura: Trinket, be nice-- oh!
Matt: As you say that (snarls) it looks over at you in the far corner.
Laura: (whispers) I'm natural 20! That still didn't see me!
Marisha: I pet Trinket, like, 'Chill, chill, be cool'.
Matt: Trinket backs up a little bit, but still locking eyes. You can see this wolf now, its gums and teeth are bared, its fur is all puffed up, its tail is-- it's definitely holding its ground and trying to make itself look as intimidating as possible.
Sam: Is it a small beast?
Matt: This would be, technically, borderline medium. This'd be medium, technically.
Sam: I can only speak with small beasts.
Marisha: Wait, use Speak with Animals?
Liam: (laughs) She swatted me and said, 'Put your armor on,' so I'm doing it.
Matt: Okay. That'll take you about 15 minutes.
Laura: Aw.
Liam: 15 minutes! Well, guess I'm doing it.
Matt: All right. You don't just slip on leather armor. (chuckles)
Liam: No, I get that, I get that, I would've guessed two minutes.
Travis: Can somebody check to see if it's actually a wolf or just looks like one? Like, check it?
Laura: Can I use my perception?
Matt: You're a bit far away from it right now. You can try to get closer if you want.
Laura: Can I sneak?
Matt: Yeah, make another stealth check.
Laura: I do get advantage, because of my cloak. Sweet.
Liam: You should yell out, 'I'm stealthing'.
Laura: I'm stealthing! Damn it. 19?
Matt: Okay. As you begin making your way forward, it doesn't seem to notice you.
Laura: Hey, it doesn't?
Matt: No.
Laura: Can I see it better now to perceive it?
Matt: Looking right at it, and from your experience in the wild as well, and Keyleth, you're getting it, this does not appear to be anything beyond a large wolf.
Taliesin: I'm going to get on my knees and put out my hand and call it. Galdric, Galdric.
Matt: Go ahead and make an animal handling check.
Sam: Animal handling! We've never done that before!
Laura: If I help my brother get on the armor, will it happen faster?
Matt: Probably.
Laura: I help him put on the armor.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: (whispering) Ow ow ow! That's too tight!
Laura: Well, you're not the same size as the other guy!
Taliesin: Yeah, it's a little bit better. Ten.
Matt: Ten. As you put out your hand, Galdric snarls, and as you say, "Here, boy." (growls and snaps) It lashes out at your hand. That is going to be-- That's a 21 to hit?
Taliesin: I'll take it.
Travis: Keyleth, can't you talk to, like, plants and shit?
Matt: You take six points of piercing damage as its jaws clench down on your hand, and you tear your hand away. You can feel the warmth flowing under the glove.
Taliesin: Gently, I'm gentle with it.
Marisha: I cast Speak with Animals.
Liam: I click my Boots of Haste!
Matt: You do?
Sam: Aren't you getting dressed?
Laura: He can dress faster!
Travis: Speed change.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Quick change.
Sam: Seven-and-a-half minutes! (laughter)
Matt: You guys all become immediately aware of the creaking of leather in the distance as the two siblings are in the process of fast-changing one of the other.
Laura: The rustle of feathers.
Marisha: Okay, I cast Speak with Animals. And I crouch down to the ground. And bow down a little bit, and I say: are you the one they call Galdric?
Matt: Looks over at you for a second. The growl stops, and its posture changes a little bit. It raises its nose. (sniffs)
Marisha: Was Purvan your master?
Matt: Looking at you as you guys hear Keyleth making this series of growling sounds.
Laura: Trinket totally understands you, no?
Matt: Strangely enough, Trinket does, Trinket's like, (confused bear noise).
Taliesin: Trinket is Scooby-Doo, apparently.
Travis: Shitballs! Taint! You going that way?
Marisha: Oh my god, I get a secret!
Sam: There are several items that are sold out at the store! If you'd like to go on and see what items have already sold out, check it out. (laughs)
Laura: We need to get more t-shirts in stock.
Sam: Yeah, we know that. We know that, guys. We know.
Laura: That needs to happen. But there is still the Critical Role logo t-shirt available. What is happening? What is he--
Sam: Is there a ring or something?
Laura: Is the ring still available?
Sam: I don't know.
Laura: If the ring is still available, check out our ring!
Marisha: I can respond back, right? Your master died a great champion for the Raven Queen. He has been paid a great honor, and now the Raven Queen has chosen a new master.
Laura: I push Vax forward.
Matt: You've gotten maybe part of the tunic on. (laughter)
Sam: Is he Donald-Duck-ing it right now?
Matt: Practically. There are undergarments, but not much. It's, like, bare legs and knees, part of an arm. Yeah, he got thrust out of the changing room about 20 seconds into it.
Sam: Nice.
Liam: I still walk toward the wolf.
Taliesin: Waddle.
Liam: No no no, I did the top, I did the top, c'mon!
Matt: The wolf turns his head a little bit curiously.
Marisha: I continue to speak to the wolf.
Liam: And I kneel. And bow my head.
Marisha: A great darkness has fallen upon our lands. Upon Othanzia. We could use all of the assistance that we can achieve. Would you be willing to find a new purpose? Join Vax'ildan--
Liam: Keyleth?
Marisha: Yes?
Liam: Tell him to come forward and look into my eyes.
Laura: (whispers) That's a bad idea for dogs.
Liam: Tell him.
Laura: (whispers) It's gonna bite your face off.
Marisha: Galdric. Please. Approach your new master and look into his eyes.
Laura: Give him some chocolate, man!
Matt: The wolf looks towards you, looks towards the loosely half-dressed half-elf.
Marisha: Look into his eyes. I said look into his eyes. And see the touch of the Raven Queen inside of him.
Matt: Wolf slowly stalks towards you across the stone floor. You can hear the claws of the wolf clattering against the stonework. As you can see it's partially, like, digging into the stonework with each step. It has purpose with each stride.
Liam: As it's coming, I'm taking daggers out and throwing 'em on the ground.
Matt: The wolf stops and looks up at you. Turns around and walks towards the doorway where you are.
Sam: Where who is?
Matt: Where Grog is. Grog, who's now at the door, at the exit.
Laura: (whispers) What's his name?
Taliesin: Galdric.
Marisha: Galdric.
Marisha: Galdric!
Matt: Keeps walking.
Laura: Galdric!
Sam: Going to stop him, Grog?
Travis: Well, I'm in the doorway.
Marisha: Grog, don't move. Don't move. Look at the dog. Don't move, and don't hurt the dog. Please just look at the dog.
Laura: I pull out one of my treats I have for Trinket.
Matt: Okay. Trinket starts lumbering up towards you (thudding).
Laura: Wait, wait, Trinket-- This is for your buddy Galdric. Galdric!
Matt: Just keeps walking, doesn't even look at you in the face, walks--
Laura: I throw the treat and say, hey!
Matt: It scatters across the stone. Walks between your legs and exits out.
Travis: I pivot on my back foot. I take out Craven Edge--
Taliesin: No!
Travis: No, I do, I take out Craven Edge and I sink it into the earth right beside his head. And I say, (shouts) heel!
Matt: Make an animal handling check.
Laura: Whoa, is it good, is it good?
Travis: 20.
Matt: As the sword (crack) into the rock outside of this fortress, it probably embeds itself a good foot and a half into the mountain. You guys all hear Grog's shout echo through the inside of the fortress itself, causing little bits of dust and small pebbles to dislodge from the roof, slowly fall down. The wolf has stopped and spun in its place and reached out and lashed the blade with its jaws and (cling) as it releases it.
Travis: Stay.
Matt: He sits.
Travis: That went well! (laughter)
Sam: Dog whisperer!
Travis: Good pup.
Sam: Are you its master now?
Travis: No, no, I don't think it has a master. This is a very powerful beast. But it needs a firm hand. And I think it needs a job. So. What do we plan to do with Galdric? Said his name right?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: We plan on having him help us kill some dragons?
Taliesin: I think he's a wolf. I think perhaps something a little less ambitious.
Laura: Trinket hides very well when dragons are around.
Taliesin: I think, perhaps, joining the Whitestone conclave might be a-- Having him guard Whitestone, perhaps.
Laura: Good, yeah! I like it!
Travis: I reach into the Bag of Holding and I pull out one thing of dry food rations, and a probably pretty rotten chunk of dark elf brain.
Liam: Where did we get that?
Travis: Oh, there's a veritable Walmart of shit in this bag. (laughter)
Travis: And I, like a hamburger patty, smash it all together.
Matt: The only reason you even know this was at one point dark elf brain matter is because that's what you willed to reach in and find. It does not at all visually match your memory of its--
Travis: Does it have a little bit of a viscous-y ooze, mostly?
Matt: Oh yeah, no, it's--
Travis: It'll soften up the dry food.
Liam: Gray Chicken McNuggets.
Matt: It'll soften up a lot of things. It's pretty terrifying.
Laura: It'll make the wolf vomit.
Travis: So I throw that on the ground, and I pour a little ale on top of it. (laughter)
Sam: Wolves love getting drunk.
Matt: Very good. It leans forward and smells it.
Travis: Yeah, no, it wasn't the best, I can do better. Okay.
Laura: Trinket goes up and starts eating it.
Travis: He's going to barf that all over the carpet later.
Liam: Forget the chocolate.
Travis: I need to carry beef in this bitch.
Taliesin: It goes bad.
Liam: We have Dork! We've got nothing of Dork left?
Laura: Oh, you know what I have, by the way? I still have, like, a cooler Bag of Holding. That we got from the Slayer's Take.
Travis: Oh! That's really good to know.
Travis: I pour into a little chalice some ale.
Laura: Like, it keeps things cold. Yeah, it's like a little bitty one, but it keeps parts from going bad.
Matt: It's nowhere near as large as a Bag of Holding, but it has a slow stasis for organic goods.
Sam: We should keep some food on hand next time!
Laura: Totally!
Travis: I offer him some ale, just to see if he even likes it. Some dogs like beer, some others don't.
Matt: Mm. Wolf doesn't seem to be interested.
Travis: Yeah, all right. Then I chug it.
Sam: So are we telling this wolf something or commanding it to come with us as we return to town?
Taliesin: I think he would be helpful to guard the town, at this point.
Laura: Well, he'll follow Grog, I suppose.
Sam: Let's go back to town and bring him with us.
Travis: All right.
Matt: You guys return to Whitestone. It's another, like, three-hour trek to find your way back down to the city. Stalks up next to you. Definitely seems to be attentive to your commands. Doesn't appear to be a bond per se, but of everyone that it's encountered so far, you're the only one that really gathered its respect.
Laura: I threw a treat at it. I don't understand.
Travis: That's a great thing to throw at a giant 400-pound bull mastiff.
Marisha: I spoke words at it. Apparently that's not good enough. Communicating.
Travis: Right, so we're walking back to town. We've got a giant fuck-off wolf with us. Vax looks like Edward Scissorhands.
Liam: I'm peeling that off as we walk.
Laura: What?
Travis: What?
Travis: No!
Laura: Leave it the fuck on!
Liam: I'm peeling it off.
Laura: It's really expensive. What, do you want to damage it?
Liam: I'm peeling it off.
Laura: (quietly) Fuck, he doesn't appreciate presents.
Matt: All right, so you take what little bit of the armor you had on, off, and are you putting your other armor back on?
Laura: He doesn't have any other armor. I took his armor.
Liam: I have regular fucking armor that I grew up in with you, you fucking shit.
Sam: Do you want to trade with me, Vax? I've got some armor you could take.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: You're a funny man.
Matt: All right, so you're back in town and you have a wolf.
Travis: Do we find a holding pen for the wolf?
Taliesin: I don't think we need to. I think we can communicate to him--
Laura: No. Tell him not to attack villagers.
Taliesin: Ask him if he'll be willing to keep the town safe.
Laura: Do it in a really aggressive way, though, Keyleth. Stern.
Marisha: Very aggressive? Okay. Okay.
Sam: We should find some food for the thing, too.
Marisha: If I turned into a dog. If I turned into a wolf, do you think he'd respect me more?
Laura: No, he'll probably attack you.
Travis: He'll mount you.
Laura: Or he'll bone you.
Taliesin: I'm not ready for that game.
Sam: Do it.
Travis: Let's be clear. (laughter)
Laura: Matt's like, "mm-mm."
Liam: Oh, you soured the DM. (laughter)
Taliesin: To be fair, that's happened before.
Laura: Yeah, I remember.
Taliesin: With the troll.
Travis: With the troll. It was so good. That was you, wasn't it?
Taliesin: No, it wasn't me. Was it you?
Sam: I don't know.
Travis: Who was getting humped on?
Taliesin: I don't remember.
Sam: Finalize this wolf so we can go kill something.
Marisha: I take my staff and I say, Galdric! I'm being assertive.
Liam: Yes.
Sam: She's the alpha.
Laura: (whispering) Grog, go stand behind her.
Marisha: You want a task? I'll give you one.
Matt: All right. How long does Speak With--
Marisha: I don't know.
Matt: It lasts for ten minutes, so you can cast it again. It's first level.
Marisha: Oh, has it not been ten minutes?
Matt: It has been more than ten minutes. It took you three hours to return.
Marisha: Okay, we walked back? Okay, I'll cast it again.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: Can I cast Speak With Animals on other people? I can't, right? No.
Matt: All right, so as you shout, go ahead and make an animal handling check, with advantage because of your ability to speak.
Marisha: With advantage?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: I'll take the-- what is that, 16? Plus a six, so 22.
Matt: Okay. Galdric turns to you and essentially leans towards you and you get the essence, the idea of a message across, and to keep me from having to walk behind now, at this point, as you guys have managed to make seeming amends at the moment, employs the idea of, "I'll listen if you give me a task."
Marisha: He talked back.
Laura: Have him guard the village.
Marisha: Okay. (louder) Galdric. Only a beast of your great fortitude--
Laura: Just fucking tell him to do it!
Marisha: Right, okay. Sorry. Would you like to guard--
Sam: It's a command.
Marisha: -- the town, Whitestone? (shouting) Guard this town, dog.
Travis: Keyleth, repeat after me.
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: In exchange for food, protect these lands.
Marisha: Galdric. In exchange for food, shelter, and a cozy fire every once in awhile--
Travis: I didn't say that shit. I didn't say that. He's a wolf. He doesn't need those.
Marisha: Patrol these lands.
Laura: Protect these lands.
Marisha: Protect these lands.
Travis: (quietly) Holy shit.
Matt: "For how long?"
Laura: (laughs) He already asked that.
Marisha: Why does he want details? Why does the dog want--
Laura: As long as we need you to.
Travis: No, no. A great danger approaches.
Taliesin: Until the danger has passed.
Travis: You'll know it when it comes.
Marisha: (clears throat) A great danger--
Laura: Approaches!
Marisha: Approaches! A great danger approaches. Your service is required until that danger--
Taliesin: Has passed.
Marisha: Has passed! Is no longer in effect. You'll know. You'll know, because they're fucking dragons, man. You'll know. Protect--
Travis: I walk over and put my hand over Keyleth's mouth. You stay. We feed you. Is there a tavern or a butcher shop or something nearby?
Matt: There is a butcher. As you're having this thought, however, Galdric turns back over to you and says, "I can feed myself."
Laura: Yeah, you can.
Matt: "But I will watch until this danger has passed."
Laura: Awesome.
Matt: "Then am I free to go?"
Marisha: Then you are free to go.
Matt: "Very well. I grow tired of service. I wait too long." And the wolf looks at you, gives you like an acknowledgement, and then walks off into the woods.
Laura: Bye, buddy!
Marisha: Thanks, Galdric. Appreciate it, man.
Laura: Man, that's a cool-looking wolf.
Marisha: I look at Grog. How was that? Did that sound okay?
Travis: That was the dumbest thing I've ever heard. (laughter)
Taliesin: You did good, you did good.
Sam: I thought she did very well.
Marisha: Thank you. It really liked you. You should learn how to talk to animals.
Laura: What is that? What is that you have? What is that?
Taliesin: I'm holding onto the Raven's Slumber jewel at the moment.
Sam: The thing that can capture evil.
Taliesin: It's empty now, and do you know what I bet would fit in it very nicely?
Travis: Me.
Laura: And we can carry him around and then pop him out. Wait, okay, wait. Is it going to hurt him? Does it hurt him? Is it like, it's bad?
Sam: Not only does it not hurt him, he does not age or feel any pain.
Travis: A willing creature need not make a saving throw.
Taliesin: It's automatic, and no time passes.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to try it, and I'm going to try it, and just to see how he likes it. If he's okay with it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hey, buddy, come here.
Matt: As you turn around and look, you see there's a small puddle on the ground where Trinket has vomited up. He's pushing dirt over it.
Travis: Yeah, you got to teach him to quit rummaging, that is really foul.
Laura: What was that? Trinket, what did you eat? Don't eat the puke. Do not eat the puke. Come here.
Matt: Trinket's like scraping dirt over it.
Travis: Got a carrot on your chin.
Laura: Trinket. Do you want to go for a ride? You like rides? Yeah? You want to go for one? All right, sit still. This'll be fun. I don't know how to use it.
Taliesin: Just point, yep.
Laura: I point to him with the--
Sam: You should probably say something cool.
Laura: By the power vested in me, I now pronounce you my Pokemon. (laughter)
Matt: Words be damned. It takes you an action or so to activate the crystal, but as you do, Trinket gives a confused look before Trinket's shadow seems to crawl up his legs until it forms into this circle, this dark core, roughly half the size of Trinket's form, before it shoots into the crystal.
Laura: Is he about this size, but I don't like that one, is he about this size?
Matt: A little larger than that before he goes into the crystal, but once he's in the crystal, it's small.
Laura: Oh, it's a little crystal?
Liam: Trinkachu, I choose you.
Laura: (gasps) Oh my gosh. That's really fun. Okay. How do I let him go?
Marisha: I think you-- yeah.
Laura: I release you.
Matt: Okay. As you do that, once again the same dark energy you saw earlier spills out and hits the ground in front of you, and from that dark shadow area Trinket's form emerges, standing there looking really confused.
Laura: How was it? Did it hurt? Can you talk to him? You can still talk to him. Talk to him. Ask him if it hurt.
Matt: (vomiting noises) Vomits a little bit more on the ground.
Laura: Well, that's not good.
Marisha: You know, sometimes the teleportation makes you lose your lunch.
Laura: Ask him how he's doing.
Marisha: Trinket? You all right buddy? You all right, there?
Matt: "Feeling sick."
Laura: Ask him how the little car ride was, ask him if he liked the ride.
Marisha: How was the ride? Did you feel all right? How was--?
Matt: "Yeah?"
Laura: Okay, would you mind, ask him if he'd mind doing that on occasion, you know, whenever I need him to.
Marisha: What was it like in there? Was it--?
Matt: "I don't remember."
Marisha: Okay, that's good, that's good. Would you mind--
Laura: Ask him if he cares if I do it again, ask him if he cares.
Marisha: Would you mind doing that, you know, frequently? On occasion. MATT "If she wants me to, okay."
Laura: What did he say, what did he say? He looked really cute when he said something.
Marisha: You have a lot of men who will do anything for you.
Laura: Oh, buddy! I go and hug him really tight and scratch his ears.
Matt: You do, and avoid the little bit of--
Laura: --vomit on, I don't even care! Oh my gosh, thank you! This is the best, this is the best and we can travel with him, we can climb with him, we can sneak around.
Sam: Hey, and if Trinket isn't in it, you can also use it to capture baddies.
Laura: I know, it's great!
Taliesin: And because of the way that the projection works, you could also in theory capture a baddie and then let them loose off a cliff and watch them drop.
Laura: Oh my god.
Marisha: Oh my god, you're right.
Taliesin: It's very convenient.
Laura: Oh my gosh. Okay.
Matt: So. You have a crystal, you've set a wolf on a path.
Sam: Where are we going next?
Matt: Where are you going now?
Taliesin: Your home, I imagine.
Laura: Don't we need to--oh, yeah.
Sam: What's our to-do list?
Marisha: We don't have to worry about it. We can, it's fine.
Taliesin: Fire Ashari it is.
Sam: Wait, wait, wait. What are the things that we need to do?
Laura: We need to check in on Keyleth's family.
Sam: Cobalt Reserve, Ashari.
Laura: Grog's family.
Sam: Did we already take care of Osysa's mate, Frostweald?
Laura: No, but that's down--
Taliesin: That's far.
Marisha: That's the other Vestige, correct?
Laura: Yes, that's over by Grog's family.
Matt: That's information about the Vestiges.
Sam: We need to steal an airship.
Taliesin: I agree, that's still very important.
Travis: I can't remember where, what--
Laura: They were by Kraghammer.
Travis: Thank you. I'm having terrible hiccups.
Sam: What about, we need to find Kaylie at some point. We also need to, who's gone, where's Allu-- where's Ki-- where's people?
Laura: Allura should be here in like a day. She should be here very soon.
Travis: What's close to here? (hiccups)
Taliesin: Nothing's close, we're specifically far away from everything.
Marisha: But we can go wherever we want as long as we've been there before.
Travis: Well, we should definitely go to the Fire Ashari.
Taliesin: Fire Ashari is the next--
Laura: We should go to the Fire Ashari.
Marisha: Oh god, I'm immediately nauseous.
Matt: (bear noises)
Liam: That's two of us.
Marisha: Oh, Trinket, buddy. What time is it?
Laura: (laughs) Do you need some water?
Matt: It's still, with the travel to and from, it's middle afternoon, like one o'clock in the afternoon.
Taliesin: Take it.
Sam: If we're going to go, do we need anything before we leave? We got everything we need? Potions and stuff? Want to buy some meat for your cooler?
Laura: Yeah, let's get some meat.
Matt: It's pretty easy to go ahead and procure it, five gold of meat will fill that thing.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: So go ahead and mark five gold off your paper.
Sam: How much, could I buy a medical kit somewhere?
Matt: Yeah, you could find a general store and purchase a medical kit.
Sam: How much is that?
Matt: I'm going to look that up right now.
Sam: All right, whatever, I've got it.
Taliesin: It's nifty that you have a book that tells you how much something like that costs.
Matt: Imagine that. It's like it's a handbook of some kind, it's crazy.
Marisha: Does anyone have any fire-resistant items?
Laura: He does.
Liam: I do.
Laura: Put it on.
Marisha: I might pick up some fire resistant potions as well.
Travis: I have this black iron plate that I haven't used ever. 'While wearing this heavy plate 'armor, the bearer gains resistance to any fire damage.'
Matt: Five gold for an herbalist's kit for you.
Laura: Oh, plate armor, none of us can wear it but Pike.
Matt: An herbalist's kit, like five gold.
Sam: Can that stabilize people?
Matt: If used with a medicine check, yeah.
Laura: Okay, I have this, which I can't wear.
Taliesin: What is that?
Laura: It's a purple and black robe. It was Lady Briarwood's robes.
Taliesin: What does it do?
Laura: Clings to nearby darkness as you walk. While wearing this robe, you gain resistance to piercing damage. Anybody need pierce resistance that can wear robes?
Taliesin: I'm pretty reasonable.
Sam: Do I wear robes?
Matt: Robes would be worn instead of your armor.
Sam: No thanks.
Laura: What about Gloves of Missile Snaring? That appeal to anyone?
Sam: Missile snaring? What does that do?
Laura: These gloves seem to almost meld into your hands when you don them, and when a ranged weapon attack hits you, you can use your reaction to reduce the damage by 1d10 plus your dexterity modifier provided that you have a free hand. If you reduce the damage to zero, you can catch the missile if it's small enough to hold in that hand.
Taliesin: Does it require attuning?
Marisha: They're pretty sleek.
Laura: It requires two, no it just requires one free hand.
Taliesin: Yes, but does it require attuning?
Laura: Yes it does, it requires attuning.
Taliesin: I might be attuned out at this point.
Laura: Anybody? I feel like that could be cool for you, Scanlan.
Sam: I think I can take it?
Taliesin: What's your dex? Your dexterity is not very-- actually, it might work out well for me, weirdly enough.
Marisha: Are you fully attuned?
Taliesin: I can undo something that I'm not using.
Marisha: Percy, you have access here in Whitestone to alchemy supplies, correct?
Taliesin: Matt, I have access to alchemy supplies here in Whitestone, correct?
Matt: (laughs) I mean, there are elements of your initial workshop I guess, that a lot of supplies have been cannibalized but a few things can be pieced together. Plus there was a lot of alchemical elements and tools that were utilized in the subterranean tunnels as part of the refinement process for the whitestone residuum, the large vats of acid that were distilled by the Briarwoods while they were here, and there are other elements of their own tinkering in the alchemical arts that remain scattered throughout the castle. So yeah, you can definitely find enough to tinker with if you want.
Marisha: I mean, we could take the rest of the evening and I can attempt to make some fire resist potions.
Sam: Eh.
Travis: All right, here's what I'm thinking, right? I mean, if we go after my herd, we're in for a fight. A big one. If we go to your Fire Ashari, we're doing recon and hopefully learning something, right?
Marisha: Well, we're going to be in for a fight at the Fire Ashari as well because there's a giant sunder in the fire plane, and last time I checked there were fire imps and elementals pouring through there.
Travis: Are those bad?
Taliesin: Eh.
Marisha: They're annoying
Taliesin: As long as we're quick we can go about it.
Marisha: Well.
Sam: What's our mission?
Travis: You really want to get the rest of the testicles of--
Marisha: I mean, we could theoretically see if there are survivors and I can attempt to close the tear in the plane. I don't know if I can do that. However, I don't know anyone else particularly more qualified to attempt it.
Travis: Allura or that bearded dude.
Marisha: We're talking about the Fire Ashari and possibly what to do there.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: We can go and look for survivors--
Laura: And bring them here.
Marisha: And someone should probably close the tear in the fire plane.
Laura: Should we wait for Allura then, before we go?
Travis: Well, if there are survivors, they might not be that way for very long if we don't go.
Laura: They've been there for a while already.
Marisha: If there are survivors--
Laura: Then they're surviving.
Marisha: They've survived. I agree. It's not going to be pretty.
Taliesin: I know you don't want to go.
Marisha: I really don't.
Taliesin: But we need to go. I say we take the rest of the day. You make your potions, we leave first thing in the morning.
Laura: Wait for Allura, hopefully she'll be here by then.
Taliesin: Maybe Allura will join us by tomorrow morning. If not, we teleport over.
Matt: Okay, you guys are going to rest for the evening?
Travis: Wait, hold on, is there like a house of entertainment in Whitestone? I know it's just getting back on its feet but you know.
Matt: That would be a question more for Percival.
Travis: Percy? I'm having a bit of a soul struggle and I'm wondering if I might bend your ear for a moment.
Taliesin: Sure.
Travis: Yeah, could I speak to you over here?
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Travis: Right, so, like, I want to get my freak on.
Taliesin: I don't feel that way about you. (laughter)
Travis: Yeah, no, I, I'm sorry.
Taliesin: I mean, you're very attractive.
Travis: That was very unclear. So I know this is like your home and stuff and you might not have been aware of it, but they have these houses where like....
Taliesin: Oh, where you get your freak on!
Travis: Yes.
Taliesin: Yes. Yes, we have them.
Travis: Oh good, do you think they're still in order?
Taliesin: Oh, I imagine so.
Travis: Could you point me in that direction?
Taliesin: No, I have no idea where they are. I do know that they exist. I actually had things to do here. I didn't have time for these.
Travis: Oh yeah, me too, important things. I was thinking for Scanlan in case he gets bored, you know, you've got to keep him focused.
Taliesin: I wouldn't actually know where any of these places were, would I?
Matt: No, and those that did exist in this town have not been...
Taliesin: I figured as much. I'm just fucking with him. Okay. No.
Travis: Oh, okay, well, I'll let Scanlan know. Just keep it between you and me 'cause he's very sensitive about these things.
Taliesin: Your secret is safe with my indifference. That's fine.
Travis: Well, my, my, indifference
Taliesin: I know you do.
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: You're wonderful.
Marisha: Can I start telling that to people in real life?
Taliesin: Yes you can. I do it all the time.
Marisha: Yes. Your secret is safe with my indifference.
Travis: Okay. I'm going to rest.
Sam: Before we set off on this, is there anything closer or more pressing? I don't actually know why we're going to her place, but I'm fine with it.
Marisha: To look for survivors and close the giant tear in the fire plane that evil, well not evil, fiery entities are pouring through.
Taliesin: It's a hellmouth, it's basically a hellmouth.
Travis: It's either that or we go goliath hunting.
Laura: That's next.
Taliesin: But this is quick, this is something that we can knock off the list.
Sam: All right, let's knock it off.
Travis: Yeah, right, let's just check it off.
Liam: As we're walking through town, do I see any weaponsmiths?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: Okay.
Taliesin: I'll help you make the potions.
Liam: 21.
Matt: Okay, that'll help cut down on the time. 21? There are two functional smiths left in the town. There were two more than that overall, that were more like blacksmithy, but they both unfortunately lost their lives in the insurrection. But there are two functional blacksmiths in this, yeah.
Liam: And one's nearby, to pass through?
Matt: About a ten-minute diversion.
Liam: I'm splitting off from the group.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: We've got to get out of here.
Liam: One's in front of me now?
Matt: Well, you find your way to-- it's a small blacksmith, and most of it's outside. Though the day is growing late, you do see an older gentleman, long, tattered grey hair pulled into a very tight bun in the back and a beard that is actually tied off to the side. Otherwise it would be hanging down into his work. He's wearing soot-covered clothes, big leather apron, leather gloves, and he's currently in the process of (ping ping) turning over and hammering out a piece of orange glowing steel.
Liam: Excuse me, sorry to interrupt, I have a very simple request.
Matt: He doesn't stop. He seems to, he acknowledges your presence but he's still working as he's listening. (smithing sounds)
Liam: I have six gold burning a hole in my pocket. I'm not looking for anything simple. Do you have a short sword? A regular old shortsword.
Matt: (ting) He looks over at you. "If that's what you're looking for, on that wall over there we've got two shortswords." (ting)
Liam: What's the difference between the two that I can see?
Matt: (smithing sounds) That you can see? Make a perception check.
Liam: 22.
Matt: Looking over them both, from this distance, they're both made with different hilt designs and different pommel designs, the grips are a little different but other than that the blades are pretty much identical.
Liam: I grab one off the wall. I slap down six gold, which I know is way too much and say, thank you sir. Pelor lives here. And I walk away.
Matt: Okay, as you start walking away he goes, "Hey."
Liam: Yeah?
Matt: "You're going to pay proper for that shortsword."
Liam: Oh, I'm sorry. How much does it cost?
Matt: "12 gold pieces."
Liam: My apologies. 12?
Matt: "12 gold pieces, friend."
Liam: So I put down six. I put down another 14. I really apologize. I was just confused.
Matt: "It's all right. No harm no foul." Takes the gold and scoops it and puts it into his pouch. "Have a good day."
Liam: I walk down the street going like-- it's big.
Matt: It's much bigger than you're used to, but it's got a fine balance to it and it's well-made. All right, so as you guys have all--
Laura: I've got an opal dagger you could have used.
Liam: I don't need your dagger.
Taliesin: We're going to make our potions?
Matt: Yes, yes. All right, so.
Marisha: I have another question.
Matt: What is your other question?
Marisha: Before we all go to bed tonight can we get like a fuckton of the green stone under Whitestone?
Taliesin: There's really not a lot of it.
Marisha: Say like $1,000 worth and maybe have like a real nice Heroes' Feast before tomorrow?
Liam: Wise as fuck.
Laura: Or in the morning.
Liam: Heroes' Breakfast.
Marisha: I've got to do it at night, because I have to Tree Stride in the morning.
Matt: You can choose either to create the potion or to mine the residuum for the evening. You cannot do both. Both are time, like, to pull that material from the-- because most of it that remains has been already embedded within the ziggurat beneath. You would actually have to physically chip it from the structure.
Laura: I have a plan, Keyleth.
Marisha: Yes?
Laura: We will cover the 1,000 gold from our own party funds and have someone here mine some shit for us and give it to us later.
Marisha: I like that plan, yeah. Sounds good to me.
Sam: How about the wolf?
Taliesin: So potions.
Laura: Percival, do you have people here who can mine? Looking for work, people--?
Marisha: Yeah, sure, why not?
Taliesin: I'll let them know that they should start trying to pull the residuum out of the wall, but it's dangerous down there.
Laura: Yeah, it is.
Taliesin: And tampering with it is definitely...
Travis: Necessary.
Taliesin: Should be ginger. It would, I'm trying to keep everything ginger down there.
Laura: So maybe we should take 1,000 gold just from your family stores then, huh? That might be smarter.
Taliesin: We currently have 1,000 gold from my family stores that are in the group treasury at the moment.
Laura: Oh, we do. No, that's 500. That was just 500. Just so you know.
Taliesin: I feel like it was more than that.
Laura: No, it was just 500.
Liam: Hey, de Rolo, do you remember what happened yesterday?
Taliesin: He's not there.
Laura: Isn't he, though?
Taliesin: I was going to do such a nice thing for you, but never mind now.
Laura: (laughs) No, no, no, do something really nice for me.
Liam: Where did I go? Oh, I went to buy a shortsword.
Taliesin: No, never mind. You went to buy a shortsword.
Laura: Dear, dear, dear, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Do nice things. All right?
Taliesin: I'm trying to be gentle with my family right now. They're taking on an awful lot.
Laura: You're right. They're taking on so many people.
Taliesin: And we'll see what we can do.
Liam: I'd like to think you hear me in your mind.
Taliesin: Always fucking hear you in my mind.
Laura: Let's just use the damned party funds for the time being. It's fine, Keyleth. This is a really important feast.
Taliesin: We're busy making potions.
Laura: All right.
Matt: So you prepare a Heroes' Feast before you begin this potion-creation process? Is that what I understand or not?
Laura: What?
Marisha: Can I make some potions and then, like, I make dinner for us before we go to bed?
Matt: It's going to take you about the length of a day to create the potion, with his help it takes it to about half, so it'll be about 12 hours of creating. Eight to 12 hours. So.
Travis: Pick one.
Taliesin: Pick one.
Marisha: I'll do a damn feast.
Taliesin: No potion?
Matt: You can do the potion as well. The feast only takes a moment to cast.
Marisha: All right, okay. Yeah.
Matt: I'm just saying, be aware that you guys will probably have, if you want to get a full rest after that potion creation process, you're going to have to wait until like this time tomorrow, like late in the day to make your journey. Which is fine, if you're willing to be patient about it.
Travis: Sure.
Matt: Yes, no?
Travis: Say one, just say one.
Marisha: Yeah, let's do it, let's do it. Let's go in prepared and then we can always rest on that side.
Matt: Cool. For a fine, fine dinner.
Laura: Just want to make sure we feast right before we leave so that it's most useful.
Matt: All right, so. You, everyone else goes to sleep while you and Percy work tirelessly through the night. If I could have you--
Liam: Fuck!
Matt: (laughs) Just for the sake of it, I want you to go ahead and make an arcana check.
Marisha: Aw, an arcana? Do I get advantage because of my little skill in alchemy? I'm skilled in alchemy.
Matt: Yeah. Oh, that's right you are, never mind, go ahead and do that.
Matt: Proficiency bonus, are you proficient in alchemy?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So proficiency bonus, and for this, use intellect modifier.
Marisha: Okay. Intellect, which makes it plus seven. Do I have advan-- ooh, I rolled a natural 19.
Matt: Okay. We'll say, for the fair cost of, reduced due to the roll, 450 gold pieces, you create a potion of resistance of your choice of resistance.
Marisha: Just one?
Matt: Just one.
Marisha: Fire.
Matt: It takes a long time, man.
Marisha: Fire!
Matt: Fire, all right. You create a potion of fire resistance. The materials cost you 450 gold to create, you finish it by about sunrise the next day. Everyone else begins slowly waking up after the night's rest as you guys both, bags under your eyes.
Laura: Oh, that was a good night's sleep, I tell you what.
Travis: Seriously.
Sam: Keyleth, could you--
Marisha: What? Oh, god, you snuck up on me.
Sam: Could you make me some tea real quick?
Marisha: Scanlan.
Sam: What?
Marisha: Go fuck yourself.
Sam: What, you were up before me, I thought--
Taliesin: All right. All right, this is fine.
Marisha: This is fine.
Taliesin: This is good.
Marisha: This is great.
Matt: You're doing a Heroes' Feast for breakfast, then? Is that how it's working?
Marisha: I'll take a nap. I'll cook breakfast, guys, good morning. Good morning!
Laura: Oh hey, good morning, Keyleth!
Sam: Why don't you sleep during the day, we'll all take our feast, and then blast off at night time?
Marisha: Because I have to teleport and cooking this feast are both 6th-level spells and I can only do one of those a day.
Travis: Man, it's hard being a druid.
Laura: Can anybody else make a feast? That's here?
Marisha: Pike. Pike. Pike?
Sam: She's with Gilmore.
Travis: She's not here.
Laura: (sighs) I miss Pike.
Liam: We all miss Pike.
Marisha: I'll cook breakfast, guys.
Laura: No, I'll cook breakfast. No, I won't cook breakfast.
Liam: That's a good idea, for you to not cook breakfast.
Matt: What's the plan?
Marisha: I'm cooking breakfast!
Matt: Are you cooking breakfast or are you summoning breakfast? That's my question.
Laura: Are you summoning breakfast and then you're sleeping and then we're leaving?
Marisha: I'm summoning-- yes, I'm summoning breakfast and then I'm sleeping.
Laura: And then you're sleeping and then we're leaving as soon as you wake up.
Matt: Okay, that's what I was wondering. We got the answer, okay, cool. Hoo, today's been a slog. All right, so you go ahead and you use Heroes' Feast, summoning forth a fantastical breakfast meal filled with coffee and eggs and everything you would hope for, the finest materials.
Laura: Froot Loops!
Matt: (laughs) Sure, Froot Loops is on the menu, why not?
Taliesin: Lucky Charms.
Matt: No Lucky Charms, sorry, those aren't available on Tal'Dorei. But yes, all you guys take an hour to finish devouring this, you finish your meal, all you guys get a 2d10 hit point maximum increase to your hit points.
Laura: Ooh, ooh, greens, greens!
Matt: And immune to poison, frightened, and all wisdom saving throws have advantage.
Travis: Damn!
Sam: Advantage on wisdom.
Matt: Yes, the usual.
Travis: Almost broke.
Marisha: And wisdom.
Laura: And you're immune to fear, right?
Marisha: Immune to fear, poison, and what else?
Matt: And you get advantage on wisdom saving throws.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: After which, Percy and Keyleth pretty much fall asleep at the table as it vanishes and they both collapse to the ground, eggs out of the corner of their mouth. Eventually they make themselves back up to sleep and the rest of you guys peter around for the remainder of the day while they get their full rest. It now comes to, at the end of that eight-hour period of time, I'd say about three, four in the afternoon before they finally wake up. You've restored your spells.
Marisha: Yay!
Matt: And the rest of you are ready to go about your business.
Laura: Let's go, let's go, let's go.
Liam: Wait! While they're sleeping, right--
Matt: Mm-hmm?
Liam: I take Scanlan aside.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oi.
Liam: Hey, buddy.
Sam: Hey, friendo.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: What's up?
Liam: We don't talk a lot.
Sam: Well, we start to and then you leave the room, usually. (laughter)
Liam: I don't handle personal emotional confrontation very well.
Sam: It's okay. I walk away. (laughter)
Marisha: Oh, shit!
Sam: Then I come back, I feel bad.
Taliesin: No, no, that was perfect.
Liam: Where did you go?
Sam: Just kidding, just kidding.
Liam: Pull up a chair, sit down, I want to ask you something.
Sam: I'm already as low as I can go.
Liam: You're right. How do you do it?
Sam: How do I do what?
Liam: How do you do it? You're risking your life as much as anyone in this group, you're almost dying every day. You're fucking smiling all the time. How do you do it? I'm kind of asking as Liam to Sam as well, but mostly as Vax to Scanlan. How do you do it? You almost died yesterday as well. Or two days ago, fuck. Why do you do it?
Sam: Well, Vax. I don't know, I mean, I like you people, okay? Everything before this was not as good. This is better. That's why. It's very simple. You had a shitty childhood, didn't you? You and the sister?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: I think Grog had some troubles. We've all had our share of shit before we all met. Now we're together, we're a family, this is better. That's how I smile. It's better than it was before. That's it.
Liam: We're probably going to die in the next month.
Sam: Yes, but it's fun while it lasts.
Liam: All right. Thought I might--
Sam: Glean some wisdom?
Liam: Yeah, but I'm just as confused as before.
Sam: Listen, I'm older than you.
Liam: How much older?
Sam: A bit. I've seen more than you have. And it's all shitty, so it just depends on how you look at it. You can dwell on the shit, or you can just leave it behind in people's beds and keep going.
Marisha: Oh god, that works on too many levels.
Taliesin: Oh god, that's too deep.
Marisha: Too deep.
Liam: You did that. Water under the bridge.
Sam: I walk away.
Liam: That little motherfucker shit in my bed.
Matt: All right. As you regather your will, path chosen; Keyleth, do you wish to prepare the transportation spell?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Let's do this.
Matt: All right. All of you gather and find your way down to the Sun Tree in the center of the town. At this point, it's later afternoon, you've been growing accustomed these past few days of taking action right around dusk, and as the sky turns from a blue to a bit of an orangish hue, you all find yourselves ready to transition back over to the continent of Issylra.
Marisha: Let's go. To the Sun Tree.
Matt: Keyleth steps forward, touches her hand to the Sun Tree, completes her mental incantation, and you watch the trunk once again tear open into the somewhat oval walkway into the tree itself. On the opposite side, what's your destination?
Marisha: Oh, god. As close as I can get to the Fire Ashari, I guess.
Matt: Okay. You recall, passing through, there were a number of trees towards the base of the mountain that were starting to grow petrified from the proximity to the ash that constantly falls from the sky. They died a long time ago and are slowly beginning to petrify. As the portal opens up on the opposite side, you can see beyond that the dark rock that formulates that mountain range. At the same time, you can see a dull orange glow, and you all begin to step through in rapid succession, Trinket racing up after Vex. All of you find yourself stepping out the other side, at which point you look up and you can see the pathway that you took towards the top of the mountain where the Fire Ashari called Pyrah, where they maintained their ever-vigilant watch on the tear into the fire elemental plane. What you do notice immediately is that the path that you took initially is no longer a simple walkway. Against the now very dark sky, this side of the realm itself, night is, actually, no, sorry. At this point, you've actually beaten the sun.
Marisha: Oh, do we gain a few hours?
Matt: Yeah, you guys have gained a few hours, technically.
Marisha: Awesome.
Matt: So it's still light in the sky from other parts in the distance, however, there is a perpetual dark cloud of smoke and actual storm cloud gathering across this mountain range. As you recall the first time you were here, that's the nature of Pyrah, it's always under this thick, heavy, soot-and-ash-filled cloud cover. The pathway that winds up the mountain, though, is instead a glowing orange mass of slowly dribbling molten rock that has filled that entire walkway, and it has come to rest at the base of the mountain where it has gathered and begun to cool. You guys are hundreds of feet off from this point as you step out of the tree. However, where you see the molten rock has reached the base of the mountain, you-- it's cooled and formed into solid rock at its base, and you start seeing flashes of the orange turning dark, then another section turns dark from the opposite side. And then a few moments pass and you can see the orange of the next section, up in like ten-foot segments, it's going dark and hardening on its own. You get the sense that your arrival did not trigger this more than it has been happening since before you arrived.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to figure out what's up?
Matt: Sure. Actually, this would be a perception check to see if you can ascertain.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16. It's difficult to make out at this distance, but you can see, along portions of the jagged mountainside, a collection of small figures that are making their way up the mountain, and their slow ascent is met with the lava flow cooling in sections.
Marisha: Do they look like people, like humanoids?
Matt: It's hard to tell from this distance, they look human-ish, humanoid-ish.
Taliesin: I attempt to use the optics on my gun to get a better look at them.
Matt: Sure, go ahead and make a perception check.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18. A little bit of a clearer look through, they do appear to be humanoid. You do see two arms, two legs. You can't gauge size comparison from this distance.
Sam: How far?
Matt: At this point, they're probably a good 800 feet up the mountain.
Marisha: 800 feet?
Taliesin: Are they dressed like the Ashari that I've met?
Matt: From what you can make out, their color palette shifts, there are reds and browns, some stand out as an aquamarine white. The Ashari you saw were a pretty consistent color palette. This is a little more varied.
Taliesin: I don't know who these people are.
Marisha: They could still be Ashari. Just in their elemental forms. Are there any birds around? I look up, do I see birds in the sky?
Matt: There are no birds in the sky. Unfortunately, because of the nature of this area, especially as the oppressive fumes and dust continue to pour off from the top of the caldera of this mountain range, it has made it not fitting for any sort of aerial life that you're used to seeing. You glance around for about a minute or two and you don't see any sort of bird life in the air.
Travis: Did the ground cool where they were walking? Could we follow them up?
Taliesin: We should.
Marisha: Let's stay far behind. Let's go quietly.
Laura: Let's walk. Stealth? I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: Okay. Everyone make a stealth check, including Trinket.
Travis: You don't want to put him in the thing?
Sam: You could.
Laura: (gasps) Okay.
Liam: Try it out.
Laura: I put it on a string so I could put it around my neck because it's a necklace because it's cooler that way.
Matt: Well, it has a chain on it that it came with.
Laura: It's got a chain on it, so it's around my neck.
Matt: All right, so you take it, you put--
Sam: It has a chain and a string now.
Matt: Chain and string.
Marisha: The string's so you don't forget.
Matt: Exactly. You trigger the necklace, pointing it in the direction of Trinket, and once again Trinket is absorbed into the crystal, vanishing within the inside. All right.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17.
Sam: Pass Without a Trace is--?
Travis: Plus ten. I rolled shitty.
Laura: 30.
Liam: 35.
Marisha: 32.
Taliesin: 29.
Sam: 25.
Matt: Okay. You guys begin making your trek up. How are you going up the mountain? Are you scaling the cooled flow?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: That's probably the safest route given the fact that most of the other side of the mountain range itself is pretty jagged, and elements of it, because of the formation of this giant volcanic caldera, there are portions of broken stone and obsidian glass that sticks out the side.
Marisha: As we're walking up, I fall behind and I slip Vax the potion of fire protection.
Matt: All right. You guys continue in pace with this, eventually, and make another perception check?
Marisha: Much better, that's a natural 19. 30.
Matt: 30. Okay. Looking up, as this cluster of individuals makes their way towards the very top of the mountain, seemingly not taking sight of your traveling group, you're beginning to see the nature of each section of this flow cooling. And what you're seeing is the group will move up a bit, stop, and there appears to be a burst of-- sometimes it looks like very strong wind, sometimes it looks like a very localized sleet storm that is brought against the side of the mountain and is actually forcefully cooling the flow down temporarily, at least in those sections, before it begins to spill over and continue its slow molten descent, but they're doing their best to continue to force it back up the mountain and--
Laura: Those are druids.
Marisha: Those are druids.
Marisha: I cast Skywrite in the clouds above us, in the smoke.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I write--
Laura: "So, how are you guys doing up there?"
Taliesin: "Hi."
Marisha: "Hi. Hey you guys." I write, in druidic symbols, "Keyleth, Kaitiaki."
Sam: What's that? Is that her?
Matt: Okay. You notice the pace in which this group has ascended comes to a halt at the very, very top of the mountain range where it ends, and there's a slight pause before the clouds shift a second time and it says, from what you understand, "Kaitiaki. Survivors remain, Keyleth."
Marisha: And I respond with, "Help has arrived."
Sam: You guys are texting?
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Matt: Druid texting.
Laura: What are you saying?
Taliesin: Stop looking at your phone.
Laura: What do they say?
Sam: Why don't we go over there and talk to them?
Marisha: They're survivors.
Travis: Well, let's go.
Laura: Are they nice?
Marisha: They're survivors. What does it matter?
Travis: And we go.
Marisha: Let's go. And I tell them, you know, "Arriving. Stand down. Here we come."
Taliesin: "Lol."
Marisha: "Lol. Winky-face."
Liam: As we travel, because I was too out of it to respond and she's way ahead, I take the potion that Keyleth gave to me, because she didn't have to, I've got the David Bowie armor on now.
Matt: You did don it. Okay.
Liam: Yes, yeah. Before going to bed.
Marisha: Oh you did, okay.
Liam: And I press it into Vex's hand.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hey, I took your, all right, I'm going to take it.
Matt: What was your choice of resistance? I assume it was fire. Okay. All right. As you guys progress up, and it is, though it is a safe route, it is still a relatively steep incline and you're all having to work together to find handholds, and it is very arduous physically getting up there. I would like everyone to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Laura: A constitution?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Oh, do we get advantage because of the feast?
Travis: No, that's only wisdom.
Laura: Shit.
Liam: Come on, Colville meteorite die.
Travis: 17.
Liam: I'm so weak.
Laura: Come on, jade.
Liam: Natural 20!
Laura: You motherfucker!
Liam: Thank you, Matthew Colville.
Laura: I'm rolling my giant jade dice, because it's green.
Travis: Way to announce it.
Laura: Womp-womp. Oh, that's a six.
Travis: (laughs) You're fucked.
Marisha: 20.
Taliesin: 13.
Sam: Five.
Matt: Okay. As you guys begin to get partially up the mountain, the proximity of the heat from the-- because the exterior of the rock has cooled, but it's still molten beneath and there are parts of that are still cracking open, and bits of the heat are still pouring through, plus the general physical exertion from the not-very-hardy physiques of both Vex and Scanlan, you both suffer one level of exhaustion from the ascent up the side of this mountain.
Laura: Oh, Trinket's in his thing, he's not worried at all.
Taliesin: I don't actually know what one level of exhaustion is.
Matt: You guys have disadvantage on ability checks. All your skill checks right now, until your next long rest, are at disadvantage.
Travis: Levels of exhaustion suck.
Sam: Not saving.
Matt: However, as you guys are approaching towards the top, you can see now the humanoids that were at the top of this mountain crest have been since keeping the flow at bay and each time it begins to crest over again and continue its flow, it's blasted again from the side and cools and it's building this very, very slow gradual outcropping--
Marisha: I use my cantrip Gust and cool areas alongside as we ascend.
Matt: Okay. You glance up and you now have a better view of this group, and what you do see ahead of you, specifically Keyleth, appears to be a cluster of about eight or so Fire Ashari-dressed individuals. You can't make out their physical details yet. Along with five other entities that are dressed in the colors and vestments of those from Zephrah.
Marisha: Oh shit!
Travis: From who? From what?
Liam: What's the matter?
Laura: What's up? What's happening?
Marisha: I run up.
Matt: Keyleth goes running up.
Marisha: You said seven or eight from Zephrah?
Matt: There are five from Zephrah.
Laura: Are we going to, we're going to follow?
Liam: Yeah, I'm breaking out of stealth and running.
Taliesin: Ah. Yeah. No. We're running now.
Laura: I walk. I'm pretty tired. You and me. Let's just walk.
Sam: Yeah. You can carry me.
Taliesin: Cardio. God.
Matt: Okay, it takes a while to get up there. As you guys begin to approach, a little bit behind Keyleth, and you look, you see the only two notable Fire Ashari that you see there are Nastoen, which is a human female that you saw was one of the four that first greeted you as you approached Pyrah when you got to the mountaintop. She looks a little rough, but she's definitely in one piece. The other one that greets you, and immediately you recognize as Flamespeaker Cerkonos, who currently does not have his right arm. It is charred and is, through some semblance of flame, cauterized to where he no longer has a shoulder and part of his torso is a black mass of burnt skin, probably intentionally, but as you approach he puts his hand out and goes, "Hail, Keyleth."
Marisha: Hail, Cerkonos. And I run up and give him a hug.
Matt: He pats you on the back and there's a coldness to his look, his expression. You can see in a brief instant, though there is strength and determination, there is a moment as he looks into your face that you can see the sorrow of losing most of his people.
Marisha: And I look back at him and I say  I'm so sorry.
Matt: "This is not your fault. We had this coming. We are the able-bodied few you see."
Marisha: Are these all that have survived?
Matt: "We are 25 living. The rest reside at the base of the mountain, to be watched, or are the watchers. But our attrition is of our own making. We helped outsiders too long ago."
Marisha: What? What do you mean, like, how long ago? 12, 15 years?
Matt: "We helped seal a drake in this rift."
Laura: Thordak.
Matt: "That is the name they call him. We helped bring and bind the beast to this rift, sealing within it the heart of a primordial flame, one of the few pure essence crystals of our plane. Such a binding will not allow it to leave. It is a punishment for the most terrible of evils that the Ashari take under their order. We carved from the crystal in bind. This beast was too strong and took the entire crystal, but it seemed enough. It seemed enough."
Marisha: Cerkonos, it's not your fault. There are greater forces at work here, beyond us. That's something that I am desperately trying to reassure myself of every day.
Matt: And a voice comes up from over the mountain range, raspy, older, and with a casual importance to it, and it says, "So, are you claiming some semblance of dealing with this?" And as it steps over, the face looks down with recognition. "My god. Keyleth."
Marisha: Who are you?
Matt: You guys look up and you see long, silver-haired half-elf in later years dressed in the blue and white robes of the Air Ashari. You see before you Korren, your father. "You live."
Marisha: Dad!
Matt: He steps forward and goes in, as he steps away from Cerkonos, takes you in his arms and holds you extremely tight against him.
Marisha: I'm sorry I didn't check in sooner. I didn't want you to be disappointed.
Matt: "Shh." He puts his finger up to your lips, holds you back and looks you over and with a smile on his face, you can see the hardness of his expression fade. "Keyleth, you've grown."
Marisha: A lot's happened.
Matt: "You look just like her."
Marisha: I haven't found Mom.
Matt: "Her path was her own. I'm just glad that you have maintained yours." He wipes the tear from your face and says, "How goes the Aramente?"
Marisha: Well.
Laura: She's kicking ass.
Matt: "Good. Good." And he places his thumb at the corner of his eye. "We were called naught but a day ago by the surviving Pyrah. Told of the angry mountain and the terrible drake that sundered the rift. I helmed the team while the majority of our people stayed to keep Zephrah cloaked and safe from the marauding beast. We've only just made our way up the mountain. Your arrival is quite fortuitous, as we need all the help we can get."
Sam: How can we be of assistance?
Matt: "Come. See what remains of Pyrah." He turns around and walks back over towards the top of the mountain.
Marisha: Daddy.
Matt: He stops. Looks over his shoulder towards you. "Yes?"
Marisha: It's good to see you again, father.
Matt: "It's good to see you as well, daughter. Now come. Show me what you've learned." Goes back to walking. The rest of the Fire Ashari stand up, acknowledge and recognize those of you that stand here before, visiting once before. Cerkonos looks about. "You show strength and honor by coming here in our time of need. This will not be forgotten. Now come." As you follow them up over the top of the mountain, you see once again before you the caldera of this once-volcanic mountain has been blown apart in areas. You can see sections of large black stone that are now pushed up into jagged obelisks where once was a relatively smooth blackened shale countryside. You can see there are pits of molten rock that have been punched through the floor and have gathered into these pools where the air above is slowly shifting and warped by the heat that is now released above the mountaintop. The flow of lava that descends down the side of this mountain continues and swells and heads inward towards the Cindergrove. The Cindergrove, from what you can see from this distance, is but a fraction of what was once there, most of the trees now torn apart and scattered amongst the top of this mountain. You can see bits and pieces of the various petrified trees thrown hundreds of feet from the center. There are still standing, defiant trees amongst what once was the Cindergrove, but they are very sparse, many of them now blackened by what you can see in the very distance beyond the broken huts and homes that once held the Pyrah, you can see in the distance moving, glowing dots of various elemental energies spiraling outward from a very large central red rift that sits there pulsing and pulsing with bright, almost sunlight energy. It's like staring into the sun at the very zenith of its movement. You have to avert your eyes even staring towards this rift, now a good 30, 40 feet taller than it was when you last returned here. What was once the portal in the ground has now ruptured and is emerging, slowly piercing out of the top of this mountain. Undaunted, your father and the other Ashari continue walking forward with no words.
Laura: I rush forward a little bit to talk to him. Question. Your majesty? I want to help, we all want to help as much as possible, but I don't know any magic. Most of us don't. Are we going to be able to do anything?
Matt: "Well, I certainly hope so. If you've survived this long with my daughter, you've picked up a few tricks."
Laura: Well, that I have.
Marisha: Father, I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for these people. They are the most capable that I know.
Matt: "This is good. Because that's who we need right now."
Marisha: However, since we're druids, we're a little bit more, you know. Geared. Prepared to deal with the fire. I can cast Protection from Energy on a couple of these people, if you wouldn't mind maybe grabbing the other two?
Matt: "I will do what I can."
Marisha: And I cast Protection from Fire on Percy, you have it, you have it, do you have it?
Travis: Well, I really don't even know what I'm going to do here.
Marisha: Well, it's going to protect you from fire.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: Scanlan?
Sam: Hit me, babe.
Marisha: I'll do Percy and Scanlan. Father, can you--?
Matt: It's a concentration spell, so you can only really have one person going, and that's your concentration.
Marisha: Can only have one person going.
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Well, good.
Marisha: I could cast it at higher levels. Can I cast it at higher levels?
Travis: I'll take a mulligan on this one.
Marisha: Can't do that with this one? Fuck.
Laura: Do Scanlan. Do Scanlan.
Sam: No, I'm fine, don't worry about me.
Marisha: Well, I'm going to cast it on myself, for starters. Because I want it.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: So I'm going to cast Protection from Fire on myself.
Laura: What does a potion of fire resistance do?
Liam: Halves.
Laura: The same thing?
Laura: Halves all fire damage?
Marisha: Halves all fire damage?
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. As the cluster of you begin stepping deeper into the caldera, you begin to approach the outskirts of the remnants of the Pyrah tribe's homestead. You can see where most of it has been either completely burnt to a cinder or lies tattered by some great force, shattered. And you start, as you're walking through, you can see where the landscape itself, all the jagged bits of black obsidian glass are shooting up out of the ground and there's broken pieces of the dark rock and volcanic material, and it isn't until your eyes begin to focus that you realize that elements of this rock is not rock at all but the twisted and charred remains of the Pyrah that didn't escape in time, blending in with the ground and landscape surrounding. The rest of the Ashari continue pushing forward, not taking notice, focused, as before you, you can see the rift, still blinking ever-bright, in the center of the remains of the Cindergrove. You steel yourselves.
Marisha: I turn and I look at them and nod and follow in my people's footsteps.
Matt: And that's where we'll end tonight's session.
Travis: Oh shit.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: Okay. We're cooking with gas now.
Laura: As Marisha collapses in a pool of tears.
Taliesin: Cry more, cry more!
Matt: You knew this was coming.
Laura: Yeah, man. You're going to have a headache tomorrow, dude.
Marisha: I'm so tired. I'm tired.
Laura: Aw, we've got exhaustion, Sam. That's balls.
Sam: Yeah, that's not great.
Liam: Thanks for tuning in to Therapy Thursday, everyone.
Travis: Where we take shits and talk to swords.
Laura: There you go.
Matt: Got a little bit of column A, little bit of column B, we got some drama, we got some personal issues, we got some reunions, we got some hardships, we got--
Taliesin: Wild animals.
Laura: Yeah, so many things!
Matt: And a travel method for Trinket.
Laura: Oh my god, I'm so excited about it!
Matt: I wasn't sure how you guys were going to use that one, as soon as you mentioned it I was like, all right, that's what they're doing. That's a way to do it. Yeah. Well cool, guys, we'll be back next week Thursday with Chris Hardwick, who will be joining us as a guest.
Laura: Yay!
Marisha: How is he going to be here?
Taliesin: As himself. He's going to be playing himself, it's going to be very exciting.
Travis: Guys, I'm a human. Usually.
Liam: I'm super busy, I'm super busy.
Taliesin: Out of the rift suddenly comes Chris Hardwick.
Marisha: Super busy, but I'm super successful.
Liam: I'll help save the world, but I got like 50 things on my schedule.
Matt: Yeah, so we'll be back then. I think April 21st is going to be our 50th episode. We're going to be doing a fun little evening there. We'll have Critmas coming up, probably end up being that night, maybe another night that week, we'll have details coming up soon, we're trying to figure out the schedule on that. This'll be our big 50th anniversary Critmas blowout, and then we're going to scale it back to like an annual-type event it looks like, both to save the people who work this channel Thursday nights and stay super later to get here, to save the length of the episodes, and to help all of us who have to then go to work sometimes very early the next morning.
Liam: We love you, but I need to sleep. It's as simple as that. We love you, and we love Critmas, but it's a health thing.
Matt: So what we'll be doing is this will be our big blowout Critmas, we'll still do it probably for the holidays, and we really implore you guys to give to charities, send us stuff, we still read them, we'll still do Periscopes, those of us who get gifts, some of us will open them on Periscope for you, so we'll still have the interaction, we'll have to do it on our own time and not at 11, midnight.
Travis: 12, 12 30.
Liam: 12 37.
Taliesin: On a 7AM call.
Matt: So this'll be our big general blowout. So if you're planning something for the next Critmas, this'll be the one to get it in for. But yeah, you can check out the guide to Critmas on Geek & Sundry, it has a list of all our supported charities if you want to give there. It's highly recommended. Thank you guys so much for those who donated to 826 tonight so we can go ahead and help out the Seattle branch.
Marisha: 826 Seattle! We love you.
Matt: And yeah. Do we have anything else?
All: Happy St. Patty's Day.
Laura: You guys are hopefully sitting at home being very good.
Liam: For fuck's sake, take an Uber.
Matt: All right, guys. Well, have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? Bye!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone! And welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons, and occasionally curse at me before the stream. You ass. Every time. You guys have caught him a few times. Anyway, welcome to tonight's game. Ashley Johnson unfortunately cannot join us this evening. She's finishing up stuff at Blindspot, but we hope to have her back next week.
Travis: Yeah! Ashley Johnson! Blindspot!
Liam: Come back, Shane!
Matt: Fingers crossed on that one. Sam Riegel also will be here a little late-- more than usual late. Travis will be taking over Scanlan until he arrives.
Laura: What if you kill him? What if he dies while you're--
Matt: I know you were kidding, but now you have to.
Travis: There are better ways to go. Worse ways. Whatever.
Matt: We'll see what transpires by the time he gets here. Hopefully he'll have a character left.
Taliesin: You can do a limerick. It'll be exciting.
Travis: Nope.
Matt: All right, so before we get started, we're going to go ahead and run through our announcements, so we can hop right in. We've got a fun game ready for you guys tonight. First and foremost, next Monday, at 7:00pm, here on Geek and Sundry's Twitch stream, taking over the spot for No Survivors, we'll be running a Critical Role one shot. I'll be running a game of Pathfinder, where our campaign actually started. A one-shot evening with a host of great players. Taliesin and Marisha will be joining us on that-- (cheering)
Matt: Way to prove me wrong!
Laura: What happened?
Liam: No singing Travis?
Travis: He must have heard on Twitch and came running.
Sam: Yeah, that can't happen. No way.
Matt: That's amazing. All right. Well, welcome!
Travis: (laughs) Man, I didn't get to masturbate in public.
Matt: Oh, night's still young, Travis.
Laura: There's always tomorrow, darling.
Liam: You think Grog is above that?
Matt: Remember, Twitch is live. That's not going to happen. So yeah!
Sam: Oh shit, it's in my car.
Matt: What happened?
Taliesin: What do you need, what do you need?
Sam: It's okay. I'm good.
Liam: You're going to wing it? You remember your numbers? Yeah, go get it, we're doing announcements.
Sam: It's literally in my other car.
Matt: I can text you your character sheet.
Sam: But I have my PDF.
Matt: You have your PDF, you're good. Okay, so. I think--
Taliesin: Pathfinder!
Matt: Actually, if I recall, I think I may have left that behind as well. I made an extra copy of your character.
Taliesin: I've made an extra copy of your character.
Matt: There you go. He got this. Perfect. Next Monday, 7:00pm-10:00pm, possibly a little over that, we'll see. You know how these sessions go. I'll be running a game of Pathfinder. Taliesin and Marisha will be playing, as well as Ivan Van Norman, as he is allowing us to take his spot for No Survivors, he will be a player in that game, as well as two special guests. We'll have Ashly Burch, the wonderful, talented, amazing Ashly Burch will be playing, as well as the incredible Phil Lamarr. That'll be our troop of five players.
Travis: Justice League, Futurama, Pulp Fiction.
Laura: Tales from the Borderlands?
Matt: Yup. Ashly Burch, who's currently up for a BAFTA as well. 'Cause apparently if your name's Ashley, you get nominated for a BAFTA.
Laura: The BAFTAs already happened. She didn't.
Matt: But she was nominated!
Taliesin: BAFTA nominee Ashly Burch.
Matt: Exactly.
Liam: She's also a delightful knucklehead, so BAFTA aside.
Matt: She's awesome people. Love her to death and we're excited to have her on. But yeah, so that'll be next Monday, 7:00pm Pacific here. Come watch, it'll be fun! It'll be a little different than the usual stuff here. Let's see. Next up, if my phone would listen, there we go. Next week, next Thursday is our 50th episode. Crazy.
Travis: Explosion. Brain matter everywhere.
Matt: It's been crazy that we've gotten to a 50th episode point, so it'll be a loose celebration. We'll have a game, couple surprises, and we'll be finishing it off with a grand Critmas finale for this year until we get in the holidays.
Laura: It's all happening that night?
Matt: We don't have a choice.
Laura: Longest night ever!
Marisha: Longest night ever!
Matt: Longest night ever!
Matt: We were going to try and find another night maybe to do Critmas, but their scheduling won't allow it.
Liam: Cheers to a seven-hour stream.
Taliesin: Oh god, I'm going to die.
Matt: They're prepping to try and make it transition as fast as possible so we aren't here until 4:00am.
Marisha: And by they're you mean us?
Matt: Yes. Come next week for an awesome spectacular! It'll be great! You'll enjoy it.
Laura: Spectacular, spectacular.
Matt: Good. Marisha, you want to talk about Hector's thing?
Marisha: Hector Navarro, aka @Hectorisfunny on Twitter, is the next host up for Signal Boost, and his first episode happened this Tuesday and he's fucking hilarious. You have to watch him.
Travis: He is, it's great.
Marisha: He's really funny. And this coming up episode might be one of my favorite ones.
Matt: Yeah, the opening joke for this next episode made me laugh out loud on the ground for five minutes.
Marisha: Yes, that's a true story.
Laura: Don't build it up too much. Now they'll be expecting it, Matt.
Matt: It's the best thing you've ever seen. You will die it's so funny!
Marisha: Anyway, give him love. Go watch it. It's funny. It's very funny. And he has great things that he boosts.
Matt: Exactly. Let's see. Also, if you guys haven't seen it, we did a fun one-shot game with Kinda Funny, with Greg Miller and their crew up in San Francisco and the episodes have been going up this week, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, finishing with today, so if you want to go check it out, it's a ridiculous two-hour game we played, broken up over four episodes. I think the full episode goes up standalone tomorrow, but it's a lot of fun. We had Travis, Laura and Marisha all playing in that game and--
Laura: Different characters. We weren't our regular characters, but equally fun, I thought.
Matt: Yeah. Who'd you play?
Laura: I played Jester, a tiefling cleric.
Matt: Yes, it was delightful. Marisha, what'd you play?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: What was my character's name?
Travis: Wow!
Laura: You were a dwarf paladin.
Marisha: I know, but what was my character's name?
Travis: Holy shit.
Laura: I don't remember.
Matt: I think it was Scottish McSweedsen. Accent McDialect.
Laura: Ooh, hello!
Marisha: Look, a lot's happened in a couple weeks, okay? I've moved, I've had a change of scenery--
Matt: It's true. But yeah, that's fun. Travis, you got to play an Order of the Lycan Blood Hunter.
Travis: I did. McLaren von Tosscobble. Oh, it was fun. He has secrets. And bourbon. He had lots of bourbon.
Matt: So much bourbon. We may have been drinking during that game, I don't know. But go check it out if you haven't. It was a lot of fun. Sam, you had an announcement you wanted to make?
Sam: I play Zedd in the Ratchet and Clank game that just came out.
Liam: It's a good game.
Sam: It's a good game, it's getting good reviews! I haven't seen what I did in it, but I assume it's nerdy.
Matt: Good man. Fantastical. Liam--
Liam: Hey man, I know you guys all love Wyrmwood Gaming, but like this free-- the shipping is killing me. Well the good news is, if you use the code "critrole" you don't have to pay the shipping, you just pay the cost for the box and they send it to you.
Laura: Oh. These glorious boxes?
Liam: These boxes by Wyrmwood Gaming. The code again is "critrole". Not only that, but they have a Kickstarter going on. They are now selling, or they're kickstarting their Sentinel deck box, which looks like this.
Marisha: Oh wait, I haven't seen this yet!
Laura: So wait, this is a regular Sentinel deck box.
Liam: This is a regular. Now, for fans of the show, you can get our logo etched into any of the boxes at any tier.
Laura: This is another box. This one has our logo etched into it.
Taliesin: What does it say at the bottom there?
Travis: You can do a rubbing on the front.
Laura: It says "How do you want to do this?"
Liam: But again, if you want to go full Gilmore, we have the Masterworks box, which is freaking gorgeous. The dice go in here, the Bluetooth is hidden in there.
Sam: Bluetooth?!
Liam: You'll never lose your shit. And then all your cards go there.
Sam: Put your weed in there.
Taliesin: You're not supposed to just come out and say it.
Travis: Can I do a sleight of hand roll?
Liam: Lastly, if you go over to their Facebook page right now for Wyrmwood Gaming, they're doing a contest. They're giving away one of these mofos. So all the rules for how the contest works are there. And you can get one of these for looking at their Facebook page.
Laura: Sweet.
Liam: Critrole!
Laura: Crit. Role!
Matt: And last but not least, as the subscriber count continues, we're going to be doing giveaways. We actually got a great gift from Midnight Syndicate, who, those of you who may have paid attention, created a lot of the music that I use during our games. They're a phenomenal group that has incredible tabletop gaming-centric music for all sorts: fantasy, horror, Lovecraft-- they have an incredible array of tracks and they sent us a bunch of CDs to give out to you guys. So we are now folding these delightful Midnight Syndicate CDs in as part of the giveaway as well. What's the milestone we're hitting for subscribers?
Crew: I think it's 16,800?
Matt: So 16,800. When we hit that tonight, we'll be giving away the next giveaway, which will include this as well as art posters, and all the other good stuff we give away as part of our subscriber giveaways, so that's cool. Thank you, Midnight Syndicate, you guys are awesome. Check out their stuff on the internet for your own home games. It's brilliant stuff. All righty! So, without further ado, let's get back into the realm of Exandria.
Taliesin: When we last left off, we were in a cardboard box.
Matt: Yes. In Hobotown, USA.
Marisha: I knew this day would come.
Matt: So last we left off, Vox Machina, having traversed many places in the world in hopes of finding a way to expel or destroy the Chroma Conclave, a collective of four chromatic dragons that together managed to destroy large bastions of society on the continent of Tal'Dorei and beyond in Wildemount. Thordak, the Cinder King, the seeming leader of their group, currently sits in the center of the partially destroyed city of Emon. The other dragons have scattered about and claimed their own territories. From this, the party has discovered the existence of these legendary magical items, referred to as the Vestiges of Divergence, that existed from wars long past. They were carried on from generation to generation that contain power that may be sufficient to defeat these creatures. You were sent to seek out the nameless sphinx that exists somewhere near the Frostweald. Weeld-weld. It's pronounced so many different ways--
Sam: Which is it? Which is it?
Matt: It can be any of them, it's a magical world. The Frostweald.
Laura: Oh, it's right in between it.
Matt: It's in that weird place.
Taliesin: Frost Wilfred Brimley
Matt: Frost Brimley. Frost Brimley is the most dangerous of forests, by the way. Everyone gets diabetes. Sorry. Somewhere the sphinx exists in the Frostweald, which the nameless mate to Osysa, the gynosphinx you met in Vasselheim, sent you to go seek out this information. Upon going to the town of Westruun to the north, it had been partially destroyed by the black dragon Umbrasyl, and in its absence had been taken over by what seems to be Grog's roving barbarian herd.
Travis: Dicks.
Laura: Total dicks.
Matt: They currently sit on the throne of the town of Westruun and have made some sort of accord with the dragon where they can both simultaneously rule that area as long as they continually provide goods, gold, and whatever they can procure from those who live within the city still. Deciding to continue south, the party made their way into the ever-frozen forest of the Frostweald. You stumbled upon a small hive of basilisks that surrounded an obelisk of Ioun, which gave you your first clue as to the location where this sphinx could be found. You battled the basilisks, destroyed their underground hive, or at least the exit from it, via Fireballs and other such stone wall endeavors. Found amongst the stone ruins of previous victims of the basilisks, you found most of Tyriok Gadsworth, the wandering cartographer, now missing a portion of his right arm. However, he is restored and alive, which is much better than how he was before and is currently leading you guys towards a camp of orcs, supposedly nearby, as some of the survivors of Westruun's destruction were camping far south and some were being captured by this roving orc camp. So you guys have just stepped away from the obelisk and the remains of these basilisks you've slaughtered. As Tyriok leads you guys from where he last saw-- at least where he saw some roving orcs before he found himself turned to stone in that previous area. As you travel along, the cold midday air of this forest, there's no wind. It's very still and very quiet, which is unsettling in a place that's so out and open in nature. Your boots are crunching through the snow, step after step, but you're still being as careful and as quiet as you can, moving along. Tyriok is shivering in the cold and one of you manages to pull out one of your extra blankets you have in the Bag of Holding to keep him from going into hypothermia. You guys press on for about ten minutes or so, and he's trying to look around and look at the placement of the sun, look at different areas that he'd seen within the forest and he's thinking to himself. "All right, so I recognize that mountain spire, time of the day, that way is north, west. Follow me!" And he continues to lead you in that direction.
Laura: And all of that with just a stump.
Matt: Yes. You're terrible.
Travis: Tyriok, do you have a weapon on you?
Matt: "The best weapon I have is right here."
Travis: Yeah, right, on your way, lad. (whispers) He's going to die first.
Matt: He's trouncing through the snow, little bit ahead, stopping, looking about, before you realize that he's a huge target, he's making a lot of noise.
Marisha: Didn't we discuss sending him home?
Laura: No, he had to show us where the orcs were.
Travis: Yeah, I said he shouldn't come, but no--
Laura: Did I cast Pass Without a Trace on us before we headed out?
Matt: You cast it before the battle. I don't recall if you cast it afterwards.
Laura: Then I'll cast it again so that he's incorporated in it and I think we should try to stealth it.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: You going to tell him?
Laura: Hey. Hey, Wonderbrain.
Matt: "Yes?"
Laura: I think it would be smart if we moved as quietly as possible.
Matt: "Why, that's what I was doing. Perhaps I should stand in the back, then, if you guys want to go... Loosely that way, about 300 paces to the right of the second stone you see with the large outcropping that looks like a gorilla's face, and then continue. I'll guide you from back here."
Travis: Yeah, that sounds legit.
Matt: He steps to the back.
Laura: You know, keep a distance. When you hear no more fighting, it's probably safe. Probably.
Matt: "Okay, okay."
Liam: I walk up alongside him and say, listen, I know you're not used to weaponry, but take this, please. It's a loaner. And I take my Keen Dagger and I stick it in his hand.
Laura: What? No, don't-- I take it back and I give another dagger to him.
Liam: I give him the Keen Dagger and say, hold this. It's a loner. It's very sharp. Be careful with it, all right? If you get caught on your own, stab. That's all you got to do, is stab.
Taliesin: Stab the other person, not yourself.
Matt: His eyes don't leave the blade and he goes, "Okay."
Laura: Don't accidentally stab yourself because I think it sucks your life energy out of you.
Liam: That is not what that does.
Laura: Yes it does, it definitely sucks your life.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: At a disadvantage since I contradicted her?
Laura: 25.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Liam: That's another knife I have.
Travis: Oh really?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Oh!
Travis: That's a giant die.
Laura: It's not above 25.
Liam: 15. It's 15.
Matt: He goes, "Perhaps this is best suited for someone who knows how to wield such dark powers."
Laura: I think you are so right. And I'll take that from you. And in exchange, I will give you this wonderful opal dagger that I have on my person.
Matt: "Oh. This is more my speed."
Laura: Still very sharp.
Travis: You know what that one does? It makes you infertile.
Liam: Give me this, you fucking hoarder. What's the matter with you? What are you--
Travis: Yeah, can you feel it in your little bits rumbling? They're all going to sleep forever.
Matt: "Perhaps you have a third or fourth dagger I can try."
Laura: What? What did he just tell you? I wasn't paying attention.
Travis: Look, I'm a man of the truth.
Laura: He's lying. He always lies, don't pay any attention to him. You're safe with that.
Liam: I push him off, ten feet away from the group, and I pull out the same Keen Dagger--
Laura: Jesus!
Liam: Here's a different one. This is a normal dagger.
Matt: "How about I take no dagger and I stay away from this? You guys are starting to be a little weird." And he hands you the secondary dagger and he puts his one hand up.
Liam: I just don't want what happened to you before to happen again, all right? You can even put it in your belt, just have it. All right? It's a normal dagger, it's fine. My sister is intimidating.
Matt: "To say the least. All right."
Marisha: Vax, just because he's holding a dagger doesn't mean he's going to be successful at using it.
Liam: What?
Marisha: You're wasting your time-- never mind.
Liam: Hold on to it.
Matt: "Okay." As you guys start walking, his eyes don't leave the blade as he takes each step and (whoosh).
Laura: And then as he walks away, it poofs back into his fucking belt.
Liam: No, it doesn't.
Travis: All right, so we head towards the outcropping that looks like a gorilla's face.
Matt: Okay, so I'll have you guys all roll a perception check, if you could.
Travis: Perception check. First one!
Marisha: Heh, natural 19.
Laura: I don't see anything at all.
Travis: Ten.
Laura: One.
Liam: 22.
Marisha: 29.
Taliesin: 26.
Sam: Three.
Laura: Off to the races.
Marisha: No, I'm sorry, 30. 30.
Travis: What?!
Marisha: I rolled a 19, my Perception's 11.
Taliesin: I think you notice things and have an epiphany at that point.
Matt: As you guys are walking, Keyleth shoots her arms out in a stop motion, and you look off and you can see past the clump of trees, maybe 60 feet ahead of you guys, two hulking-looking humanoids tromping through the snow, dragging something behind them. You hear the distant crunch of the snow and there's shape, but it's darker in the area where they are in the distance. Can't really make out a form, but you figure these are probably orcish in nature based on their gait and their outline.
Laura: (whispers) What is it?
Marisha: I look at the group and I go--
Travis: Two deer. Santa Claus.
Laura: Hello, salute, running away.
Sam: Milking a cow.
Liam: Cha-cha slide.
Laura: Use your words, Keyleth. Talk.
Marisha: Okay, okay. it looked like there were two orcs and they were carrying a body.
Laura: Are they headed this way?
Marisha: No, they're headed away from us, correct? Away, they're going away?
Matt: Eh, parallel, a little bit away.
Laura: So I cast Pass Without a Trace on us, so should we stealth?
Matt: Have you guys all roll stealth now.
Travis: Still flat grassland, or are there some trees?
Matt: Well, you guys are in the center of the Frostweald. So it's relatively thick trees, relative canopy.
Taliesin: Rolling stealth plus ten.
Marisha: Thank goodness. 22.
Taliesin: 26.
Sam: 15.
Liam: 45.
Laura: 29. What?!
Travis: 26.
Marisha: You got a natural 20?
Travis: 45, holy shit.
Taliesin: You don't know where you are anymore at that point.
Liam: I am one-dimensional.
Matt: So what are you guys going to do?
Laura: He's a dot.
Travis: From our previous time in the Frostweald, we don't recognize any of this terrain right?
Matt: I mean, you recognize the terrain. It's a large forest.
Travis: No landmarks, no lakes?
Matt: Not nearby, none that you've seen at least. If you want to go look for that, you could, but--
Travis: Are there any paths in front of us, or is it just trees and intermittent terrain?
Matt: If there are paths, they're under so much snow and relatively fresh snow that's perpetually piled on this region, they're not visible at the moment. You can occasional hoofprints in the snow from some wildlife that might live in the vicinity of the forest.
Travis: Don't you like this terrain?
Laura: I do.
Travis: Well, so what should we do?
Liam: We're looking for orcs. They're what we're looking for. Aren't they going where we want to go?
Taliesin: Let's pace and slowly approach.
Laura: I like it. Can I search the ground and see if there are a lot of tracks around? Or is this like a roaming party?
Matt: From what you can see around, you don't see any tracks from them specifically in front of you, from where they're travelling, it appears to just be the two of them right now. They're either scouts or hunters, and the closer you guys, as you slowly approach, to get a better view, they're both dragging what look to be like two boars that were killed, are currently being dragged by their legs over their shoulders, leaving a trail of crimson in the snow behind them.
Laura: I think we should take them out before they get back to their group.
Sam: Wait. What is our overall goal here? Are we to slay a bunch of orcs or are we to follow them somewhere?
Laura: We're supposed to slay them and stop them from--
Travis: Number two and then number one. Follow them and then kill the rest.
Liam: We want to get rid of all of them, so follow these guys back to the bee's nest and we can take care of the hive.
Sam: Okay, well let's follow silently.
Liam: Why don't I go a little bit ahead, you follow behind by about 50 paces and the rest of the group behind you?
Laura: But what if we kill them now, we won't have to fight them--
Sam: Then we won't know where the camp is.
Laura: But I can follow tracks.
Sam: Oh. Can you?
Marisha: There won't be tracks if they're dead.
Liam: They're not coming from where they're from, they're going.
Sam: They were just hunting.
Laura: Fine! Fuck it!
Sam: Let's follow them.
Matt: So you guys--
Travis: We follow them.
Matt: Okay, you don't catch up, you follow.
Travis: At a safe distance.
Matt: Okay. So you guys continue moving forward, watching them as they go, at a far enough distance. Pike's doing her best to walk behind in the snow, but it's okay! She's barely moving her upper body to make sure it's minimal amount of movement.
Liam: I'm not far ahead, but I'm ahead. I'm like 30 yards ahead.
Matt: Yeah. Listening out, you can hear the occasional laughter, too far away to hear any sort of language, not that I think you understand or know the language Orcish, but eventually they come over a hill, and down, and you see it first as you crest over. You can see there is a small clearing in the forest of this area, where there are two tents, what looks to be relatively filth-stained tents, like they've been used for an extended period of time, covered in dirt and mud and other things. You can see a small pile of skinned bodies to a side of one of the tents.
Laura: (whispers) Oh! They're definitely bad.
Sam: (whispers) I don't know.
Matt: There's a large stump next to it, with a trail of blood that leads up to it. You can see there are two small fires that are set in the center of this area, where they're keeping warm to themselves. And these bundled-up orcs are sitting around the fires, drinking. You can see some of them have random silver mugs or cups, some have steins, some have carved pieces of bark that are used as a means of drinking. You can see outside of these tents what appear to be large barrels or casks of wine or liquor that have been probably raided from the camp they found outside of the lake. You can see a couple of them are much larger than the other orcs. One of them is sitting down by the fire and is chuckling with the rest. You see to the back of the camp, there is one that's taking javelins and chucking them up in the air, and they're arcing through. And every time he chucks one, you hear a (scared noise), and as soon as you move to the edge of it, you look over and there is a young man who's strung up by his torso from one of the trees and it looks like a few of the orcs are making target practice. They've already hit him twice. There's one that's sticking out of his thigh and another one that's embedded itself in his shoulder, and little trails of blood streaking down, but he is currently strung up like a piata and they're having fun with him. You take a moment as the rest of the group catches up to you on the edge and you can see there are a few other people being kept inside the tents right now. One large orc musters out, adorned in thicker armor than the rest of them. He has a band across his head with a big old rough, uncut gem on the front. He starts barking out orders to a few of them. One of the larger ones stands up, and he's probably a good foot taller than the other orcs, lumbers to the back of the two tents and you can see there are two bears that are currently chained up to the back. He reaches over and grabs one of the skinned bodies from the side of the tent and throws it to the two bears and they immediately start tearing it apart and eating it. At this point the rest of the party catches up to you.
Liam: Okay, so I saw that.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Okay. But they're still a ways off, right?
Matt: In fact, I could probably show you now. Since you have--
Sam: Whoa! It's a cozy camp.
Laura: Oh my god, look at that camp!
Sam: There's fire, there's bears.
Laura: Where are the wine barrels?
Matt: The barrels are right there, right there, and right there.
Sam: Oh, there's the guy hanging up in the tree!
Marisha: Where, where, where? Can you point out those barrels one more time?
Matt: There, there, and there.
Laura: So next to the tents that the prisoners are being kept in.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Okay. We have options, people.
Matt: They haven't noticed you.
Liam: How far back are we?
Matt: You are probably back here, a good 60 feet outside of the outskirts of the camp. They don't seem to have noticed your approach and this is entirely however you guys want to approach this.
Liam: All right, well, I turn back to the group.
Laura: What time of day is it?
Matt: It's mid-afternoon.
Sam: Can we rest? Are we rested? Yeah, we had a night in the-- wait, no. We just killed those--
Matt: No, you haven't rested since the basilisks.
Sam: Okay, so we're down a couple spells, or whatever.
Marisha: Yeah, but I'm full on hit points. Is anyone hurt?
Laura: Well, I'm a little hurt.
Matt: It was a bump in the road, the basilisks.
Sam: Yeah. Okay. Hey, oi! So do I create a distraction while you go around back? Do we go in guns blazing? What's the plan? I can distract.
Laura: I think it would be good to create a distraction. We go in, save the prisoners and then take out the camp.
Sam: So a distraction that would get everyone to run towards me and ignore you?
Laura: And then we can stealth down--
Liam: Can we go around the sides--
Marisha: Flank them?
Liam: Flank them ahead of time. Scanlan, you create a distraction--
Marisha: As they're running--
Liam: -- closer to here?
Sam: Sure.
Liam: You want to get that guy down to the treeline and get the people out.
Sam: Sure. I'll draw them away from the tents.
Laura: Okay. And then, once everyone's clear, we bring them back and kill them all? Or what?
Liam: Well, this may be it for orcs? This could be all of them, or it could be just a forward camp, so we need to keep one alive.
Laura: And find out.
Liam: And find out if this is the end of it, or if there's more.
Taliesin: That's fair.
Travis: Good thinking.
Laura: How do we get all the prisoners out very quickly?
Taliesin: You have knives. You could cut your way through the back of the tent.
Laura: Scanlan, could you potentially put all the people in the door?
Sam: No. That is for my recreational use only. Also takes a minute to cast.
Marisha: Well, Scanlan can create a distraction, I can possibly take a few people out with my ranged spells along the way.
Laura: I'm saying get the prisoners safe so that nobody's running blindly into the forest.
Liam: I've lost track of all you've done in the past 24 hours. Could you send everybody through a tree, even back to where their people are?
Marisha: Not today.
Laura: What if you spent some time, a minute, creating your mansion, you have a little door here. Once you've created a distraction, we can all run up and put them in the door and then we fight. And then we get the people out of the mansion.
Liam: Yes, that's good. That's good.
Sam: Interesting idea. It's an interesting idea.
Travis: I kind of like it.
Sam: I like it too.
Liam: They can go down to the workout room, so they don't soil the other chambers.
Sam: It's not concentration. I mean, it's concentration for a minute, but then after it's cast, it's okay.
Matt: Once it's cast, it's 24 hours that door stays there.
Travis: Yeah, all your little Mr. Meeseeks will take care of them.
Sam: But we still have to get them out of the camp and into the door, unless I make the door in the camp.
Taliesin: Make the door, make the door at the back of the camp. And that way, we can run them out the back of the tents.
Laura: Not near the bears.
Liam: You need to go full Burt Reynolds out in front of that camp and get the bulk of them running towards you.
Sam: I can't do both.
Taliesin: Make the door first.
Travis: No, no, hey look. I'm good for a distraction.
Liam: Blow your shawm.
Sam: I'm fine with distractions, but I can't go to the back of the camp and set a door and to the front of the camp and draw them out.
Marisha: Let Scanlan handle-- I almost called him Scandal, which is still appropriate. Let Scanlan handle the door, I can handle the distraction.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: All right
Taliesin: All right
Laura: All right, so we sneak around to the back.
Sam: I'm really good at distractions.
Marisha: You are, you're incredibly good at distractions.
Liam: But you're the only one who can make a Hefner mansion out of thin air.
Sam: So I'm to sneak in and make a door and await further instructions?
Liam: We'll all go together.
Laura: We'll make the door far enough away.
Liam: Wait, Keyleth does the distraction. As soon as she goes, you go. So once those guys start running towards her--
Sam: How far away are we?
Matt: You guys are probably about 60 feet away from the far outside of the campline, so around this ring here, just outside of where the table edges are.
Sam: But we're talking like 150 feet? 200 feet?
Matt: You're probably closer to about 60 feet away right now, you can move for--
Sam: Okay, well, we're fine. I can make the door from 300 feet away. So we're fine. So I can make the door right now before we do anything.
Laura: Do it, make the door!
Sam: Except there's going to be a glowing door in their camp.
Laura: Make the door behind one of those trees.
Sam: All right. Okay, I'm going to go ahead and do it.
Travis: Yeah, fuck it, just do it.
Laura: Get ready to do a distraction right fucking now.
Liam: But you know what you're doing, right? Wait! Let's get in position! You and I can do a lot more hurt to these guys if we're closer to the position we have to go?
Sam: All right, flank around, flank around. It's going to take me a minute to cast the spell. You have a minute to get into position.
Matt: So who all's flanking around? All right, so the twins and Percy, where are you guys going?
Liam: I'll take the long way around, this way.
Matt: Over here?
Travis: Far side?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so.
Liam: With an eye for the shithead who's tormenting that guy in the tree.
Matt: All right, are you going with him?
Laura: No, I'm staying on the other side.
Matt: Okay, Percy, you're going with Vax?
Taliesin: I'm going to go, actually, right over here. I'm going to hide over here and I'm going to try and get a bead on the guy on the tree.
Matt: Okay, easy enough. You get a bead on him, in the outskirts there.
Travis: Pike and I will go with Vax.
Sam: Oh, she's not a good sneaker.
Travis: Oh no, you're right, she should stay put. You're right.
Matt: You're going to be right there.
Laura: Charge in after the distraction.
Matt: So Grog, where are you going?
Travis: I'll go with Vax.
Matt: Vax? All right, so you make your way around. Keeping your guys' existing stealth checks, which were okay.
Travis: Yeah, I was a 25.
Liam: 45.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh, Pike did come? We said Pike could stay, because she's not stealthy.
Matt: Not stealthy. Okay then. She stays there. So Pike's going to go-- Scanlan, you're moving back? Where are you going?
Sam: I'm staying next to Keyleth because I can do this from a range.
Matt: Where do you guys want to go-- Keyleth, for this distraction?
Marisha: Where's Scanlan?
Sam: Wait, don't do the distraction yet! I haven't set the--
Matt: Where do you guys want to set up for the distraction?
Marisha: Where did you go, Scanlan?
Sam: I'm right next to you. We want to do it--
Marisha: Yeah, we want to do it towards us.
Sam: We want to distract around here.
Laura: And then run the other direction.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: All right, so you guys are set up right about there.
Marisha: No, that's where we wanted-- Put us more--
Sam: No, he knows. We're back right now, but that's where we will end up.
Matt: You're further back. I can only put you so far away from the table edge.
Marisha: No, that's good, that's good, that's good.
Matt: All right, Pike's going to stay up with you, since you have the bead right now and if worse comes to worst, she can help rush in and try and help at that point. All right, so who's doing what?
Sam: I'm going to start casting the door.
Matt: All right.
Sam: And I'm going to do it back behind camp, on the treeline or whatever.
Matt: Okay, back far this way?
Sam: You know, just out of eyeshot of them.
Matt: Okay, I'll put this little dice on the corner to represent where the door is.
Laura: Yeah, that's good, that's good.
Liam: I turn to Grog.
Travis: Yeah?
Liam: I'm moving a little closer, just a bit, stay there.
Travis: Come with you?
Liam: The opposite of that.
Travis: Go away from you?
Liam: This is your spot, this is your spot! And I creep towards the trees, a tree closest to me, so I can get closer. Which is the orc that's throwing the javelins on that map?
Matt: These two right here are taking turns.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: At this point, you hear another (grunt, scream), and then some (condescending laughter). Oh, moving up to here?
Liam: The other tree closer to you.
Matt: Right there?
Liam: Yeah, and I'll hold there.
Matt: All right. Who's up next? Who's doing what?
Taliesin: Waiting for the distraction.
Sam: Do you want me to go in and you can cast something? I'll get their attention and you can cast something?
Marisha: Sure.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: Can I have a Monster Manual?
Matt: For what?
Marisha: Conjure Woodland Beings?
Liam: Do you want the app?
Marisha: Maybe.
Sam: There's not many that you can conjure. It's pixies and little things.
Laura: Yeah, that's little creatures.
Sam: It's okay, she knows what she's doing. No, she doesn't.
Marisha: Well, I can conjure a bunch of little creatures.
Liam: You can search. Search!
Travis: If you make a bunch of David the Gnomes--
Laura: Seriously, like a giant scorpion would be probably pretty cool.
Liam: Fire elemental? Big, bright fire elemental?
Marisha: Yeah, but then it wouldn't be me. It'd be something else that's not me that I can control?
Matt: Percy's taking the bead, waiting for the distraction.
Taliesin: Just do it!
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to say Conjure Woodland Beings.
Matt: What are you conjuring?
Marisha: I don't know.
Matt: You have to know what you're doing.
Marisha: Well, that's what I'm trying to figure out. You know, there's not a list of what you can conjure in the book.
Sam: No, there's not.
Marisha: And it's very unfortunate. And it's some kind of fey creature. So what's a fey creature that's a challenge rating of two that would make sense? That's really scary?
Laura: Fairies?
Marisha: Or I can also summon like eight fairies if they're a low enough, you know--
Matt: I hate conjuration spells, by the way guys, so you all know. The worst spells in the whole game.
Sam: I will say this, to be fair to Marisha, the spell does say, your DM will have a list of the creatures. (laughter)
Matt: Does it really?
Sam: It does, at the end of the spell.
Matt: Fuck that spell. (laughter)
Marisha: Yeah it says the DM will have the statistics.
Sam: It says the DM will have the creatures.
Matt: Fuck that spell. Conjuration needs to die. No, conjuration's great, when you're not the DM.
Travis: You don't know me, you don't know what lists I have.
Matt: How about some dryads?
Marisha: Dryads?
Matt: We'll go see what their challenge rating is.
Marisha: That sounds cool.
Matt: Past the devils.
Liam: I'll give you level-two challenge rating.
Matt: And no, we're not doing the whole pixies Polymorph. That's so dumb. Not even going to lie.
Marisha: Challenge rating of two.
Matt: Challenge rating of one.
Marisha: It's got to be a fey. Oh, it only has a challenge rating of one?
Laura: Centaur!
Liam: Centaur!
Marisha: What are centaurs?
Sam: Centaurs are not fey, are they?
Marisha: Apparently.
Laura: They are!
Liam: Green dragon wyrmling!
Travis: I'm getting bored.
Matt: I don't think centaurs are fey.
Marisha: Okay. Well then, let's do two dryads.
Matt: Two dryads. You can do up to two challenge rating--
Taliesin: (sings) Five gold rings!
Marisha: Two triads. Dryads. I don't know what it is.
Liam: Will o' the wisp!
Marisha: Two dryads.
Matt: We will say here, two dryads. Where are they going?
Marisha: Right in where--
Sam: Front and center.
Marisha: Thank you. Yep, here. Ish.
Sam: See this, Matt?
Marisha: Here. No, there.
Matt: Right there?
Marisha: Yeah that's a little out. And Scanlan and I are far back.
Matt: Now, suddenly the dryads pop into being and these two humanoid green nature entities that look humanoid but are covered with leaves and their skin has the texture of bark in places. Beautiful, wistful, both appear, summoned out of the ether and land on the snow.
Liam: Crunch.
Matt: The ground gives out from under them, they both go, (screams) and fall into a pit here.
Sam: Oh shit!
Marisha: See, aren't you glad that wasn't me?
Sam: Yeah. Good job.
Liam: Couldn't have gone with the will o' the wisp.
Travis: A pit?
Liam: They would have floated right above it.
Matt: This whole section here has now crumpled below. The dryads, however, have to make a save.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: One of them saves.
Liam: But that wasn't us!
Marisha: That wasn't us!
Matt: That wasn't you guys. Like right there? Okay!
Marisha: Wasn't me! It's all I care about!
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: This is the most Douglas Adams beginning of a fight ever.
Matt: One dryad dies a horrible screaming death. (screams) And the other one you hear is breathing heavily from the inside right now.
Marisha: Keyleth is standing at the edge of the forest going--
Matt: At which point, a bunch of the orcs turn around. I need both of you guys to-- let's see, because they're making active perception. What was your stealth check, Sam?
Sam: 15, but it doesn't matter. I'm walking forward.
Matt: (chuckles) Okay.
Sam: I'm going to cast the Resilient Sphere on myself. And I'm going to roll into camp. Hamster-style.
Marisha: Wait, can I go with you a little bit?
Sam: Don't.
Marisha: Can I do a thing with him?
Travis: If he says don't, then--
Laura: Then probably don't.
Liam: No, let him do his thing. It's marble madness, everybody.
Sam: I'm going to start singing to get their attention. (sings 'Tro-lo-lo')
Marisha: Just avoid the pit!
Matt: All right. All 60 feet, you avoid the pit, you roll around, all the orcs look over. "Huh? Stupid gnome!"
Sam: Very stupid.
Matt: Initiative has now kicked in; I need everyone to roll initiative. (laughs)
Travis: Holy shit.
Matt: Jesus Christ.
Marisha: Oh, that's a good roll!
Matt: All right, so--
Taliesin: Oh, hell yes.
Marisha: Spent all that time figuring out what I was going to do and then they fell in a crack.
Sam: You did great! You exposed the trap! You saved--
Laura: It's true!
Taliesin: If you'd conjured a will-o'-wisp, it would have been you in that hole.
Sam: If I had just gone out, I would have fallen in the hole!
Liam: It's all right, Wendy will draw some dryads falling into the spikes--
Matt: Initiative orders. 25 to 20?
Liam: 25.
Taliesin: 24.
Matt: Whoa.
Marisha: 21.
Matt: All right, 25. So we have Vax. 24, Percy.
Marisha: 21.
Travis: And 20.
Matt: Keyleth and Grog. Oh man.
Matt: All right, 20 to 15.
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16. Vex. And then Pike, right after you!
Sam: 11.
Matt: 11. Tyriok is hidden away. As you guys begin to approach the camp, he's like, "I'm going to stay back here." So he's way out of the field now. Scanlan bringing up the rear. As he would want to. All right. So that brings us to the top of the combat round. All the orcs now have stood up, grabbed their weapons, and they see this giant hamster wheel of a gnome rolling into the camp. They all look really confused but have their weapons ready to go. Vax, you're up first.
Liam: Poo.
Marisha: The door's already summoned, yeah?
Liam: What are we doing, are we waiting, are we going? I-- I'm going to sling a dagger. I'm going to click my Boots of Haste. I did? Then I'm going to sling a dagger.
Matt: You used them on the basilisk fight.
Liam: Great, thank you. I'm going to sling a dagger at the orc right in front of those two bears.
Matt: Right there?
Liam: There. Yeah.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Liam: All right. So advantage.
Sam: We're still trying to draw them out, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I got a 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Liam: Okay. All right. So I'm going to roll for damage. So this is Assassin. It is not surprise?
Matt: Not surprise. They have been made aware that there is a threat, as Scanlan rolled in. You do have advantage because he doesn't see you. So it would sneak attack.
Travis: In his gerbil ball.
Liam: Here comes the sneak attack damage, Two, four, that was the worst sneak attack damage ever. (counting) 29.
Matt: 29 points of piercing damage. The giant creature, as the dagger (whoosh) through the air, doesn't even notice it. It's looking over where Scanlan is and is grabbing the chains and breaking them from where the bears are currently bound.
Sam: Oh shit.
Matt: Hasn't broken them yet, he's going in for the pull as the dagger (impacts) the back of its neck and it's looking over in the direction where it came from. What are you doing?
Liam: I would like to use my bonus action to hide.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and go for it. Roll for stealth.
Liam: 30.
Matt: 30? He glances over in your direction, looks up, looks in the other direction, reaches up and goes to pull the dagger out, but it's already gone.
Laura: That's so sneaky.
Matt: (roars) And angrily yells out into nothing. Has no idea where you are.
Liam: And then I'm going to use my movement to squish down into the snow a bit, up to here, feathers sticking out a little bit.
Matt: Awesome. Ends Vax's turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Amazingly, I've got a bead on that guy who's trying to let the bears out of their chains.
Matt: You do, actually. Yes.
Taliesin: I'm going to take Bad News and I'm going to sit and take a nice calm breath, and I'm going to squeeze off a shot and knock him on his ass, so this is a trick shot, leg hit.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Wait, before I do anything, I still can use Hex because the last creature to have Hex on them died, so I can use it as a bonus action to cast Hex again, can't I?
Matt: Correct. How long does it last, though?
Taliesin: Couple hours, I believe.
Matt: I will check.
Taliesin: Might have been too long.
Matt: It's been about an hour or so since that last encounter as you were travelling through the forest, so with Hex, up to an hour. Yeah, unfortunately.
Taliesin: Oh, fuck it. And it's a full day's rest? It's a long rest.
Matt: For you, yeah. 'Cause it's the feat as opposed to an actual class feature. All right, taking your aim.
Taliesin: That's fine! Taking that shot.
Matt: Sharpshooter or not?
Taliesin: No, not Sharpshooter. That's 24 to hit.
Matt: 24 hits! Heavy plate armor covered orc-like creature. Bigger than a regular orc that you've seen before.
Taliesin: He has a strength saving throw?
Matt: Yes, he does.
Travis: Which one is he?
Matt: That is going to be a nine, 'cause he rolled really bad.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, he's prone.
Matt: So with that (impact).
Taliesin: He also takes 15 points of piercing damage.
Matt: 15 points of piercing damage. As you (gunshot) rockets off, the sound cracks through the air. All the orcs now glance over in your direction, as the bullet streaks past them, tickling the bottom of the feet of the guy who's strung up, and slamming into the chest of the armored orc. Lands straight on his back on the ground right there.
Taliesin: Cool.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to move to my right six spaces and I'm going to take another shot at the guy who's right ahead of us, in front of the pit.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah, right there. I'm going to take a Sharpshooter shot.
Matt: Go for it. You reload and then the third attack for the shot.
Taliesin: Yep. Whoa, that's nice. 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23. 27. That hits. That's ridiculous.
Matt: Is that even with Sharpshooter?
Taliesin: Yeah. I rolled an 18.
Matt: (chuckle) All righty.
Taliesin: So that's a better roll? A better roll. That was a pretty good roll. 16, 17, 17, 27-- 33 points of damage.
Matt: 33 points of damage. You blow that orc's head clear off its shoulder. Spray of mist comes out the top of his form, as he slumps down into the fire in front of him. Two other orcs look over at you, who are now clearly visible. (grunts)
Taliesin: I put down the gun and I breathe.
Matt: (chuckles) All right, that ends your turn. Brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay, you mentioned that a few were coming over and looking over at the edge of the pit. Are there still a few more at the edge of the pit?
Matt: They weren't coming and looking at the edge of the pit, they all looked over in the direction of where Scanlan was rolling in, around the center. They're all still in place watching this giant gnome roll in, but some of them have looked over at Percy, who's firing a very loud weapon in their vicinity.
Taliesin: I figured I would be part of the distraction.
Marisha: Sure. How far away is that guy from the pit?
Matt: He's about 15 feet.
Marisha: Okay, here's what I want to do. I'm going to go earth elemental, but I want to, like, do it like a badass, you know? So I see Scanlan--
Matt: Did you use your scorpion form?
Marisha: Fuck! I did use scorpion. Fuck, damn it, we haven't taken a short rest.
Matt: You haven't taken a short rest. Yeah, so you can't--
Marisha: Then I don't do any of that. Instead, where's Scanlan?
Matt: Scanlan is right here.
Taliesin: I thought we had taken a short rest, just not a long rest.
Matt: Between?
Taliesin: Yeah. 'Cause we stopped and we healed.
Matt: You know what? You may have, yeah! If you want to do that, I'll let you do it.
Marisha: Did we? Are you sure?
Sam: We healed up each other.
Marisha: All right, fine!
Matt: We'll say we allowed a short rest, that way you were reviving Tyriok and everything. That's fine.
Marisha: Okay, so I walk and I sink into the ground as I'm walking off, and I want to pop up next to this guy.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: And I want to throw his ass in the pit. (cheering)
Marisha: (yelling) This. Is. Vox Machina! ...Town.
Matt: All right, go ahead and make an athletics check.
Marisha: ...Territory. Strength check?
Matt: You know what, this would be strength. Yeah, we'll make it strength.
Marisha: 17.
Matt: 17? Okay. The orc looks as you (explosion) out of the snow and rock being thrown out of the area, and, "Huh?" looks over his shoulder at you with confused look, goes to wring the edge of this giant club it's holding to come towards you as you grab both shoulders, gives you this look of utter, sheer fear, as you lift him up and lob him over the side into the pit.
Taliesin: That dryad can help kill him now.
Matt: Yeah, he does not make his save.
Sam: Oh no, is he going to crush the dryad?
Marisha: He's going to get crushed. He's going to crush the dryad.
Matt: 28 points of damage. Yeah, you hear a (pained grunt).
Sam: He died?
Matt: You don't know.
Laura: Do we also hear a little dryad voice?
Matt: (high-pitched grunt) (laughter)
Matt: As it gets sandwiched.
Liam: Pushed it through.
Matt: The dryad was almost out of the pit, climbing her way out (heavy landing). All right, so Keyleth, does that end your turn?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All right, Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'm going to hold my turn until all of our party has gone.
Matt: So I'll let you go to the back of the initiative order.
Travis: Okay, yeah, sure.
Matt: All righty. Vex? What you got?
Laura: I'm going to run forward. Well, actually, I'm going to stay hidden. Okay. I'm going to--
Sam: Those seem like opposite commands.
Laura: I know, I know, I know. Can I stealth forward?
Matt: I mean, no one seems to have noticed you at the moment.
Laura: Okay, good, then I stealth forward, towards the camp, towards the tent, away, staying away from people. Yeah. Is that as far as I can go in, towards the tent?
Matt: Six spaces, yeah, 'cause you don't have any additional movement from there.
Laura: Then I'm going to stealthily--
Matt: You can keep moving if you use the rest of your action to move again.
Laura: I'll be able to get to it on my next turn? To the tent?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay. Then I'll shoot one of the guys.
Matt: All right, which one do you want to shoot?
Laura: That--
Matt: The one right there?
Laura: Yeah. That's really hard to hold steady. Yeah, I'm going to shoot him.
Matt: Okay, go for it. Both attacks?
Laura: Yeah. 18 on the first.
Matt: 18 just barely hits.
Laura: And 30 on the second?
Matt: That hits. Roll damage twice on that.
Laura: Okay. 15, 16, 17. And that's sneak attack?
Matt: Yes, on the first one. So roll an additional--
Laura: Five is 22?
Matt: 22 points of damage for the first arrow. Nice. Second attack?
Laura: Second attack is five, seven, 13, no 14. 12? I can add. 13, 14. Oh no, I don't get sneak attack on the second.
Matt: No, just the first one.
Laura: 14 on the second attack.
Matt: 14. Nice. You pull two arrows out and release them both at once. As you duck behind the tree, the guy who's pulled out this giant greataxe and is now starting to lumber in the direction of Keyleth, this giant earth elemental that burst out of the ground. Both arrows sink in.
Laura: I use my bonus action to hide.
Matt: Go ahead and roll stealth again. As both arrows sink into the back of the armor, piercing through, and embedding themselves a few inches or more into the back of this, this creature looks over its shoulder towards you. What'd you roll?
Laura: 36.
Matt: 36? Glances back over. Doesn't seem to have any idea where the arrows came from, but is grimacing in the pain. End your turn? All right, Pike, now, is going to--
Laura: Oh, Pike!
Matt: As everyone's scattered about, Pike is going to move forward. Let's see here. Yeah, going to do what Pike would do.
Travis: Guiding Bolt.
Matt: Guiding Bolt! (laughter)
Travis: Yes!
Liam: Yeah!
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: But she's really strong now, with the Guiding Bolt. Yeah!
Marisha: WWPD. What would Pike do?
Matt: So Pike is going aim it at one of the guys, one of the guys with the javelins that was throwing at the guy, to prevent that from happening. Guiding Bolt on that. Ranged spell attack-- oh yeah, that'll hit. That's a 15 plus six. Yeah, that hits.
Liam: Come on, Trickfoot!
Matt: All righty, that's 4d6 radiant damage to that guy.
Liam: Dag, yo!
Travis: 4d6?
Matt: 4d6. 15 radiant damage.
All: Oh.
Travis: You roll her really well.
Matt: 15 points of radiant damage, the next attack against that guy has advantage, as he's now a giant beacon, as the blast streaks forward from her extended hand, smashes into the front of this orc, drops the javelin in his hand, spins around, looking in the direction she came from and you can now see there's this glow pulsing off the front of his armor. That's going to go ahead and end her turn, bringing us down to their turn. Now, this guy is going to try and get back up. He's going to bring down his greataxe onto the chains he was setting up, he was going to try and break them. Now he's going to smash it down. Breaks both of the chains and both of the bears are now free.
Taliesin: He's prone, though, can he do that?
Sam: He just got up.
Matt: He got up. He can still only move three more squares, there. That's going to finish his turn. This guy here is going to lurch forward in the front of you, Keyleth, and take two swings with his greataxe towards you. That is a 17 to hit?
Marisha: 17 is my natural armor.
Matt: All right, so that hits. And then that is an 18. 17 and 18 both hit you. You take 24 points of slashing damage, as each smash of the greataxe streaks across the front of the stony armor that you wear, breaking off chunks here and there, but there's plenty more where that came from as an earth elemental. That ends his turn. Let's see. This guy's going to rush up, this guy's going to rush up, this guy here is going to attempt to climb out. He gets partway up, starts cresting over the edge, he's not up because he was knocked prone as he fell, so he's over the side. Percy, you see one orcish arm come up and start to pull itself out the side of the pit. This guy here is going to move up, grabbing another javelin. This guy is going to pick up his javelin from the ground, move over this way, seeing that the earth elemental is being taken care of, and they're both going to throw javelins at you. Let's see, that is a 24 to hit.
Taliesin: Can I do a Gloves of Missile Snaring?
Matt: Yes, you can. Go ahead and roll.
Laura: Are those the ones I gave you?
Taliesin: Yeah, so that's 24 to hit?
Matt: Well, what does it say on the gloves?
Taliesin: It's actually-- I can reduce damage, I can't change whether or not it hit.
Matt: Yes, exactly, so it is eight points of piercing damage.
Taliesin: Eight? Eight points of piercing damage? Okay, so I'm going to try and catch it. And yeah, I reduce the damage to zero and I actually can catch it in midair.
Matt: As it chucks the javelin, you catch it and stop it in midair.
Taliesin: Stab it into the ground.
Matt: Stab it into the ground. As you're thinking how awesome that was, the other one rolled a natural 20. (groaning)
Liam: Oh, look at that smile.
Matt: However! Still rolled pretty low on the damage. That's going to be nine points of piercing damage for the second one.
Taliesin: Can I use it again or no?
Matt: What does it say on the glove? It's a reaction. You only get one reaction per round, so no, you cannot.
Taliesin: What did they roll to hit, though?
Matt: That one was a 20, a natural 20.
Taliesin: A natural 20, so it hits no matter what.
Matt: Yeah. So yeah, you take nine points of piercing damage as the other javelin streaks past you, it cuts past the shoulder, nothing too bad, but didn't quite take away from the moment that you just got to enjoy.
Taliesin: I took eight points of damage?
Matt: Nine points of piercing damage. All right, that ends that orc's turn. This one, the one that seems more decorated with the gem-encrusted headband runs out and starts shouting orders.
Sam: Did the two that were on me attack?
Matt: He's going to come forward and begin to attempt to attack your orb as well. All three strike at the orb, trying to cut through.
Sam: Can I act like they're hurting me?
Matt: If you want to.
Sam: Ugh! Ah! Ooh! Oh!
Matt: Make a deception check.
Sam: Deception?
Matt: Deception, yes.
Sam: 27.
Liam: Okay, Sam, I'm going to need five small pain reactions and five large pain reactions.
Sam: (sounds of pain)
Taliesin: Can I get some closed-mouth ones?
Sam: (sounds of pain)
Taliesin: Okay, now breathier.
Matt: As they're all striking at this sphere, sparks of arcane energy shooting off with each blade attack against the outside, they're all getting winded. You can see sweat dripping off their brow, as they're not seemingly making an impact. However, with each pained cry you give out, you see their grins widen. And they realize, no, this is working. And all three of them keep hacking at it, as the one war chief is like, (yelling in Orcish) and they keep slamming at the sides of this in hopes of cutting through it.
Taliesin: Cats with a catnip toy.
Matt: This one, two javelins there, that's good there, that's good there. I don't think they have one, in there-- nope! So that is going to be the end of their turn. Now the bears are going to go. The two bears are going to go tromping forward 40 feet. 35, 40.
Marisha: Remember the love in your heart!
Matt: This one's going to go ahead and run past to there. Since they can't attack anything, this one's going to keep moving around. He uses his movement to get behind there and starts biting at the back of the ball. This one will get over to the earth elemental, as it is the biggest and most visible target. All right, that's going to go ahead and end their turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Yeah, it's my turn.
Travis: Wait, are we at the top of the round?
Sam: No, no, it's bottom of the round. I'm the last guy and then you. Oh shit, do I keep them here, or do I go to work?
Laura: Get them out.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to very quickly drop the orb and Dimension Door into one of the tents.
Matt: Okay. The orb vanishes, and with a flick of your wrist, a goodbye wave, you vanish entirely from sight. Which tent do you want to appear in?
Sam: I had wanted to go to not the one that Laura was saying, the other one. That's the one I was going to go to, because it's closer to the door.
Matt: So you appear inside this tent. And on the inside you can see there are two people that are currently within. Just to mark where the tent is.
Sam: Are they human? Or are they dancer?
Matt: They are human and they're pretty brutalized. One of them you see is this relatively well-dressed nobleman, his clothing filthy. Part of his face is swollen and bruised from what looks like he's been beaten within an inch of his life. The other one is a woman and you can see, one arm appears to be broken and she's cradling it in her hand. And they're both recoiling and holding to the back, like the corners of the tent, and when you appear, they both gasp and begin naturally scrambling away before they realize you're not an orc.
Sam: I say, come with me if you want to live. And do I have any movement? Can I try to unbind them?
Matt: Yeah, you don't have movement. You can start to move over to start unbinding them if you want to.
Sam: Okay, that's what I'll do.
Matt: Okay, so you go to the rope bonds and start helping them try and release themselves. Okay. That's the end of Scanlan's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Watching everybody run forward, forming this delicious mosh pit right there in the middle, can I go into a frenzied rage? Can I book ass towards all these bastards and see if I can get close to this little prick?
Matt: 30, 35, 40--
Travis: I have 50.
Matt: 45-- (cheering)
Travis: I'm good!
Matt: We'll say, go ahead and make an acrobatics check to try and move between those two guys.
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20. Okay! You manage to, in a rage, as you're rushing through, yelling. They're all confused by the moment of the disappearing hamster ball of a gnome, look over their shoulder, and you dive into a shoulder roll, like a bowling ball, slamming into two of them, finding your feet on the other side, swing around, and the two that you pushed past, knocked on their shoulder, didn't fall off their feet, but you manage to push your way through, land in place, spin around. You can take the rest of your turn, if you want.
Travis: Can I turn and say, all right, amateurs, time to go pro! And I would like to use Reckless Attack and with my frenzied rage, I take all three attacks at the crystal-bearing piece of shit. I can't hit him with my thing.
Matt: Right there? He's just out of range.
Travis: He's just out of range? Whoever's the closest except for the bear.
Matt: Okay. It'll be either one of those two guys.
Travis: Oh yeah, he'll take it.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Travis: He'll take all of it. So I have advantage on these and advantage on attacks.
Matt: I'd say, go for each attack, just in case, individually, just in case you manage to kill one, you can move on to the next.
Travis: So do all the attacks first?
Matt: Yeah. Well no, do the first attack.
Liam: Attack and damage, attack and damage.
Travis: Attack and damage, okay. 15 for the first one.
Matt: 15 for the first one hits!
Travis: Yay! Oh god, nine. 18! 18 points of damage.
Matt: 18 points of damage, all right.
Travis: And there's a constitution--
Matt: Does fail its save.
Travis: Yay! Give me your shit. Okay, second one is a 24.
Matt: 24 points of damage?
Travis: No, 24 to hit.
Matt: 24 to hit? 24 hits.
Travis: Yep. That's crap, nine. That's also 18 points of damage on the second one.
Matt: 18. The first hack cleaves into the side of his shoulders, the second one you bring across his midsection and his whole innards spill out onto the snow. Crumples into the ground before you.
Travis: And when I kill someone, I get an additional attack.
Matt: As a bonus action. But you're already using your bonus action as a frenzied rage.
Travis: Right, thank you.
Matt: Yeah, so you can do that outside of a frenzied rage, if you kill something.
Travis: So this is the last one and there's a bear there, right?
Matt: He also did fail his save on that, so you got another bonus to strength.
Travis: Hell, upgrades all around, bitches. Last one.
Matt: What's your strength at now?
Travis: 24. It's a plus three on top of everything else.
Matt: Plus three on top of that?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Nice. All right, what was the attack?
Travis: No, it's a plus one because we took a short rest, right?
Sam: We did.
Matt: When you take a short rest, yeah.
Travis: That wipes it. Right? Or a long rest wipes it.
Matt: Yeah. I believe for Craven Edge--
Travis: Craven Edge. Strength loss/gain from this feature lasts until your next short rest.
Matt: Short rest, yeah.
Travis: So it's just plus one.
Matt: But you can say you don't have to take a short rest if you don't want to. It's up to you.
Travis: I didn't want to! I'm not hit. I was fine! I was literally untouched.
Matt: Yeah, if you wanted to keep it, you would have been able to walk around aggressively and maintain it. That's fine.
Travis: Yeah. Aggressively.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: (laughs) Walk around aggressively.
Travis: 27 on the third one.
Matt: 27 hits.
Travis: That's the damage.
Matt: Oh, that's the damage, all right.
Travis: Can I use it against the bear?
Sam: Ooh.
Travis: Or just the person, is he the only other one in range?
Matt: Well, if you're rolling to hit, right? Whoever you're attacking, the AC differs. So what was your attack roll on that one?
Travis: It was a 24.
Matt: Yeah, no, that hits the bear. So go for it. Damage the bear.
Travis: That was the damage, was 27.
Matt: 27 points against the bear, got you.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so after completely gutting the first guy, you turn around and slam the axe into the hide of the bear. Up close, you can see, the bear, unlike Trinket, edges of its shoulders and parts of its spine, you can see bone protruding out in points and juts. It's different, a little more dangerous than a regular bear you've encountered at the get-go. However, your blade does sink a good four to five inches into its hide, cleaving a giant wound in its side. It howls and seems very pissed off. But so are you.
Travis: Does he have to make a constitution--
Matt: He did make his save at 15.
Travis: Son of a bitch.
Matt: That end your turn?
Travis: That does.
Matt: That ends your turn! All right, back up to the top. Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right, I'm still hidden, so I'm going to move along the side of the tent behind those barrels. And I want to throw two daggers at the magic-using orc.
Matt: Magic-using orc?
Liam: Didn't you say one of them was with a circlet?
Matt: Oh. That one?
Liam: That one.
Matt: Oh yeah, right there.
Liam: Yeah, and I'm going to use my Sharpshooter ability to do negative five to the attack roll, plus ten to damage.
Matt: To the damage? Go for it.
Liam: I'm going to use Luck. Same exact roll. First one--
Laura: You should roll in your box.
Liam: Okay. I need Wyrmwood! Critrole. 17 from the first.
Matt: 17 hits.
Liam: 17 hits. And the second one is 15.
Matt: 15 misses, unfortunately.
Liam: Misses, but the sneak attack damage travels on the first dagger.
Matt: Yes it does.
Liam: Yes it does. So here it comes. (counting) 33. 33 plus six! 39.
Matt: 39, is that with the plus ten? Sharpshooter?
Liam: Oh. No, it's not!
Matt: So 49.
Liam: 49.
Matt: 49 points of damage, as you dart up along the side of the tent, getting behind the barrels. It sinks right into the back, between the shoulder blades of the chief orc of this group. You see his whole body tenses up from the severe amount of pain and he tries to reach at from the back and spins around, looking straight at you.
Liam: Hey, go fuck yourself. I stare him down.
Matt: All right, okay. Ending your turn there. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to grab the javelin really quick. I'm going to walk over to the guy who's just starting to crawl out of the pit.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, yeah. (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to look him in the eye. Javelin goes right in the face.
Matt: Roll for an attack.
Taliesin: I'm using it as a stabbing weapon. I'm not letting go until he drops.
Matt: Right, no. I understand. I do not believe the javelin is finesse. So this may be a strength-based attack. Let me double-check.
Liam: But it's already happened.
Taliesin: That's fine. It wasn't about the strength!
Matt: So it's your strength bonus plus five.
Taliesin: Strength bonus plus five?
Travis: With advantage because he's hanging over a--?
Matt: What's your strength modifier?
Taliesin: One.
Matt: So plus six for this roll.
Taliesin: Plus six?
Matt: Technically, you get advantage because he's there, technically prone as he's getting up out of the--
Taliesin: Six, seven, eight, nine, 11.
Matt: 11. Your first attack you whiff. He ducks out of the way, actually pulling down into the pit and it misses his head, and he gets up again and extends a hand to reach out towards your ankle.
Taliesin: Throw it away, pull out the gun and shoot. (laughter)
Liam: What a Raiders moment!
Travis: Yes! Totally.
Marisha: Yes, totally Indy-ed it!
Taliesin: First shot to the face. That's still better. 17 to hit?
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: Okay. That's 15 points of piercing damage.
Matt: As soon as he reaches out for your ankle, you pull a pistol out and he looks up at you. The front of his head detonates and he slumps backward, falling into the pit silently.
Marisha: Silently. Oh no.
Taliesin: I'm going to look up to see if anybody has noticed that this has happened.
Matt: The two guys that were throwing javelins at you have watched this happen. They seem unaffected, they're just really pissed off at you. Orcs aren't-- they're used to seeing their friends die, they keep coming at you, so these two are like, (growls).
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to pick one of them and take another shot. The one on the left, I'm going to take a-- yeah, let's do a sharpshooter shot on him.
Matt: Your left, okay.
Taliesin: Yeah, our left.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Sam: Stage right.
Taliesin: Yeah, that'll hit. 26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Taliesin: That's 17 points of damage.
Matt: 17 points of damage, got it. This one is a gut shot, hits him on the side of the stomach and you can see part of the back of the armor blow out, and he grabs it for a second and keeps looking towards you, seemingly un-fully phased by the impact of the blow. Going to stay where you are?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Use that pit to your advantage. Good. Ending Percy's turn, Keyleth, you're up. Vex, you're on deck.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to take the two dudes who are in front of me, you can tell me if I can do this twice or not, I want to do my multi-slam attack, my multi-attack slam, and I want to go, in as dictated in Common as I can as an earth elemental, knock. Knock. And I want to take their heads and go, boof-boof.
Matt: (laughs) Okay, so you'll move one, two to get into combat range with two of them. Go ahead and make a slam attack against each of them.
Marisha: Against each of them?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Okay. Natural 19 on the first one.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: And a natural 18 on the second.
Matt: I'm going to say those both hit. Go ahead and roll slam damage.
Liam: (rock voice) Knock-knock.
Marisha: (rock voice) Knock-knock. (normal voice) First attack is 13 plus-- 18 points. Second, not as good, ten points.
Matt: Ten points. So you take the larger orc who's coming at you with full plate armor and this greataxe that it's bearing towards you, hacked at you twice last round, and the one that just got shot in its gut by Percy. You stumble in the front of them and they both look up at you for a second, snarl before you go, "Knock-knock." (whack) Crack their heads together. The one that Percy shot pulls back, its nose is smashed and it's a smear of blood on the front of its face, it's still standing but it stumbles back a bit. The other orc, however, as you pull back in your hand you look down, most of its face is completely caved in, you hear a slight gurgle and a little blub of blood come out of what used to be its mouth before its body goes limp in your grasp.
Marisha: Can I take his body and chuck it in the hole?
Matt: Sure, you take it and throw it over your head. It arcs right in front of you, Percy, down into the pit. You hear a (yelp) as the final remnants of the dryad are crushed by the fall.
Laura: Oh no!
Marisha: It served its purpose.
Matt: All righty. That finishes your turn, Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh, me? I thought Travis was after--
Travis: I'm at the bottom of the round.
Laura: Oh, every time?
Matt: Yeah, he changed his initiative.
Laura: Oh, okay. I want to shoot Trinket out into a Cannonball from--
Matt: Okay, this'll be your action to do this.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to move up to where I'm lined up with all of that row, so this whole shebang right here.
Matt: Over here?
Laura: Yeah. All of these guys.
Travis: Yeah, please me too.
Laura: And you too, because you practiced it with him.
Travis: Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Laura: Take out the thing and say, Trinket! Cannonball! And shoot him out and try to roll into all those guys there.
Matt: Okay, so using your action and Trinket's bonus action as part of the attack here.
Laura: Right.
Matt: Trinket all of a sudden leaps out of the necklace, slamming into the larger bear in front. For 30 feet, that's five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30. What's Trinket's movement?
Laura: His move is 40.
Matt: 40. You have 40, landing right there. Go ahead and roll three attacks.
Laura: Three attacks.
Travis: Good boy.
Laura: Oh god, really? He gets advantage because he's awesome.
Matt: No.
Laura: No.
Laura: He rolled pretty fricking bad. 12?
Matt: 12 hits the bear. It's a big bear. What's the second attack?
Laura: 15?
Matt: 15 just hits the orc. And the third one?
Laura: One!
Matt: Miss.
Laura: Miss.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll the Cannonball damage on those two.
Laura: What is that?
Matt: It should be on Trinket's sheet as one of the attacks.
Laura: Cannonball, exclamation point. Cannonball.
Matt: If you don't have it written down, I have it in my--
Liam: Yeah, go for that.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. (laughs)
Laura: You know what, you sent it to me forever ago, it's in my email somewhere, Matt.
Matt: That's okay. I have it here in my pdf, it's fine. As part of your beastmaster--
Laura: Can you tell me what magical beasts I can conjure while you're at it, because--
Matt: I will fight you. All right, 2d6 plus eight bludgeoning damage.
Laura: 2d6 plus eight, okay.
Matt: However, the one that missed does get an opportunity attack against Trinket.
Sam: Oh, snap.
Laura: I suck. 2d6 plus eight.
Liam: Hey, that's not bad.
Laura: 12 on the first.
Matt: Okay, 12 on the first. As the bear slams into the larger bear, like rolling over the top, and then comes down onto the second, the other target, the orc, smashing into him. The orc almost gets knocked off his feet and then the third one sidesteps and swings at Trinket, so go ahead and roll damage for the second orc.
Travis: Nice.
Laura: That's better. 17 on the second.
Matt: 17. Trinket crushes the other orc who'd already been softened up from the blow from Keyleth's earth elemental.
Laura: Yes, good job Trinket!
Matt: As Trinket rolls past, you can see this crushed form of the orc on the ground in the snow, crushed in place.
Laura: Good job, buddy!
Matt: Most of the bones broken and turned to dust. The third one, however, sidesteps and is going to go ahead and take a swing at Trinket. That is going to be a 19 to hit.
Laura: 20!
Matt: 20. Right across the top of Trinket's armor, no effect.
Taliesin: Can't even hit a bear.
Laura: Really dizzy though.
Matt: That's going to be your turn, though.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Pike. Pike--
Laura: Can I use my bonus, though? Do I have a bonus action on top of that?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Hide?
Matt: You did not start your round hidden, unfortunately. Or did you? Oh no, you did, you did! You totally did, yes, so you can hide. Roll stealth. You'll have to move back over here--
Laura: Natural 20!
Marisha: Hey!
Matt: So you move back behind the tree so you can find a place to hide. And then you go ahead and vanish. Cartoon-style, like run behind the tree and don't come out the other side.
Liam: Does she paddle the canoe down?
Matt: Pike's going to go ahead and, one, two, three, four, five. With the view there is going to go ahead--
Liam: Come on, golden child. I want the Pike.
Matt: Pike's going to go ahead and continue to run over here, because she sees that the guy who's hanging up there who has three javelins stuck in him now is like passed out and bleeding.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: She's making her way around to try and heal him.
Liam: Such an Ashley thing to do.
Matt: All right. Their turn now.
Sam: Oh boy.
Matt: This guy here is going to go ahead and converge, well no, locked in with Trinket, he's not going to take the attack of opportunity from him. This guy's going to move here, that orc's going to move around to--
Laura: Look at how teeny Trinket is compared to the other bears!
Matt: I know. This bear's going to go ahead and move in on you, Marisha. Big old dire-bear-looking creature bearing down on you.
Marisha: I brace.
Matt: All right, so. The war chief begins to scream out, (yelling in Orcish), pointing at you, Grog. And you see the other orc on the other side goes, (yells) and seems to be energized by the rousing cry that it's given, so advantage on attack rolls for all within earshot.
Travis: Come on, give us a tickle.
Laura: You can do that?
Matt: This guy's actually going to move--
Sam: Well, maybe it's another spell or something, yeah.
Marisha: Paladin or some shit like that.
Taliesin: Yeah, it's a very paladin thing.
Laura: Man, that's a good thing to have.
Matt: All right. So since I moved him up last round because he was hiding behind a tree there, so the other larger orc, the one that was tending the bears rushes up alongside with you as well, Keyleth. All right, so the war chief is going to make one attack as a bonus action, it can do that against you, Grog, with advantage. That's going to be a 22 to hit.
Travis: That'll hit.
Matt: All right. You take 16 points of slashing damage, reduced to eight, because you're raging, so eight points of slashing damage as the war chief comes down with its greataxe. It sinks a few inches into your shoulder and it carves it down, almost matching the scar you have across your chest, and grinning at you the whole time. As you grin back at it, his friend is going to come up with its greataxe and is going to come down, this is with advantage as well. That's going to be a 17 to hit?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: That misses. As it comes up overhead to try and swing down to go towards the top of the nape of your neck and head area, you notice out of the corner of your eye, bring up your sword and deflect it down into the snow behind you, looking over your shoulder at it. The bear is now going to come up alongside and is going to make a bite and a claw attack against you.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: That is going to be a 19 to hit?
Travis: That's 19, my armor class.
Matt: And that's going to be a 21 to hit.
Travis: Yep, both hit.
Matt: So you take nine points of piercing damage as it bites you, reduced to four. We'll say four, I'm trying to round down consistently going forward. So you take four points of piercing damage from that, and then you take 12, reduced to six slashing damage.
Travis: Okay. Ten total?
Matt: Total of 11 points of damage. Or ten, you're right. From the bear. Bear attacking you, actually no, first the orc attacking Trinket now.
Laura: No!
Matt: With advantage.
Laura: No!
Matt: Oh man, that's a 16 even with advantage.
Laura: Ha!
Matt: Just slamming a greataxe over Trinket's armor, Trinket--
Laura: Trinket's yawning.
Matt: Bear against you, Keyleth, that's going to be a natural 20 with the bite.
Marisha: Ouch.
Matt: And natural 20 with the claws. Two natural 20s in a row, that bear wanted a piece of you.
Marisha: Keyleth was like, aw, cute. (screams)
Matt: 18, 24. We're looking at 30, no, 42 points of damage on you in your elemental form from the bear.
Marisha: Damn.
Matt: Bear bites into you and takes a mouthful of stone and tears a chunk out of the front of your sternum area and then with its claw swipes across your face, ripping part of your elemental jaw, exposing a little bit of soft earth beneath.
Laura: Soft earth.
Liam: That was your good jaw.
Matt: The other large orc, the larger one with its axe is going to take two attacks with its greataxe against you. That is a 21 to hit and an 18 to hit.
Marisha: Wait, I'm getting attacked by someone else, too?
Matt: Yeah, the other large orc there.
Marisha: Yeah, both of those hit.
Matt: All right. You take 24 points of slashing damage as both of the greataxe blows come on from the other side, you're being--
Marisha: 24?
Matt: --chiseled down now. Yes. That's going to end their turn. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Have I freed them from their shackles?
Matt: We'll say as your action this turn, you will have been able to get them both out of their rope-binds, including the one that has the broken arm.
Sam: Okay. The construction of the tent, can I lift up the back and shuttle them out that way, or do I have to cut through it or anything?
Matt: It's not-- the back flap is currently hit into the ground with a stake. It shouldn't be too hard to lift it up if you want to try.
Sam: I don't want to waste too much time in there. You know what, I'll walk them out the front door, point them towards the mansion. And say: run, do not walk, to my beautiful, beautiful house.
Matt: Which way do you want to go?
Sam: To the right, stage right when I get out?
Matt: So right there? Okay.
Sam: Just enough to get them around the tent, yeah, and on their way.
Matt: They come out, seeing all the action happening, looking really nervous. Give you a nod, and the woman says, "Thank you." And they both turn, and if you point out the shimmering light, they (running) and bolt off spending the entirety of their round--
Sam: And I yell to them, wipe your feet before you go in! (laughter)
Matt: Okay, they won't quite reach the door, but they're on their way out.
Sam: That's pretty much all I can move, you think?
Matt: From there, yeah. Tiny gnome feet.
Sam: Okay. Do I have a bonus action?
Matt: You do.
Sam: All right. I will-- I can only really see Keyleth around, right? Everyone else is hiding?
Matt: You don't see-- well, you see Pike, because you're running behind. Pike is not making any tink-tink-tink. Behind you, you can see Grog in a frenzy.
Taliesin: I'm hidden by Keyleth.
Matt: Yeah, you can't see Percy.
Sam: I will inspire Keyleth as my bonus action, I will sing to her, (singing) her blood runs cold, her memory has just been sold, my druid is a centerfold, druid is a centerfold. I don't know. (laughter)
Matt: If you've ever seen an earth elemental go, huh? But you take your d10 inspiration die because it was a catchy tune, seems familiar. All right. That's going to end your turn, Scanlan?
Sam: That's it.
Matt: Grog, you're up.
Travis: All this love for me, I'm flattered. And I would like to use all three of my frenzied rage attacks against the bear.
Matt: Go for it. First attack?
Travis: First one, reckless, all three reckless, the first two normal, maybe the third Great Weapon Master, we'll see. 21.
Matt: 21 hits. Roll damage.
Travis: Yes. Awesome. Six, 11, 20, that's 20.
Matt: 20. With that, you take the axe and you swing it in a wide arc across the front of the bear's body. As you hit the edge of the bone, it splinters at the impact, and its shoulder-joint is knocked out. The sword continues and cuts right halfway into its throat and actually manages to cut through a very main artery and the bear begins to bleed out on the spot, onto the ground.
Travis: Is that an automatic failed constitution save?
Matt: With the constitution of the bear, no, it makes it. 14.
Travis: But he's dead, right?
Matt: It is dead, the bear is no longer of the realm of the living.
Travis: So I killed somebody, so I get an extra attack, correct?
Matt: You still get, it's your bonus action--
Travis: Oh, it's the bonus.
Matt: Right. So unless-- it's only helpful when you're not frenzying.
Travis: Beautiful.
Matt: When you're frenzying you get it every turn.
Travis: Yeah, I get it all the time!
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: So can I turn to my right--
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: To the next bloke.
Matt: Regular one or the war chief?
Travis: The war chief, let's try the war chief.
Matt: Sure, all right. Regular attack or Great Weapon Master?
Travis: Regular, because I've just got two left so we'll see how regular does.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: 22.
Matt: 22 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: 18.
Matt: 18. Makes his constitution save. So already still wounded and bleeding from the dagger that Vax left in him earlier, you manage to take the blade down, sweeping across the front of its armor, cutting and actually destroying and causing this jagged edge to the front of its armored breastplate. Make your next attack.
Travis: The third one, let's do Great Weapon Master.
Matt: Okay, go for it. With advantage.
Travis: Natural 20.
Liam: Orc down, orc down!
Laura: Yes!
Matt: Okay. So roll damage.
Travis: 32.
Matt: So you multiply that by two. Right? Before the modifier.
Travis: Before the modifier, it was--
Matt: 2d6, which you rolled what?
Travis: I rolled a 12. Or no, it was seven plus five and then my rage modifier.
Matt: Right, so it's seven times two, so 14 plus your modifier and your rage.
Travis: Wow, which is ten now. And Great Weapon Master is ten.
Matt: Right. So that's plus 20 is what you're looking at on top of that.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: So 14 plus 20, 34, and then roll 4d6 on top of that, Brutal Critical.
Laura: What!
Travis: Ten. No. 11.
Laura: 12.
Travis: Not 11, 12.
Sam: 47.
Matt: How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Matt: (laughs) Jesus.
Travis: I would like to stick the hilt of Craven Edge into the snow and reach forward and grab his shoulders and pull him onto the point of the sword.
Matt: So you throw the blade down, handle-first, it falls a little bit forward. You reach forward and grab the war chief and pull him down onto the blade. He looks up at you, staring into your face the entire time as you pull him over each jagged inch of the blade.
Travis: Yeah, let's see the light leave those eyes.
Matt: The life expires as it falls forward on the blade. Let me go ahead and make a constitution save. That is 18, makes it.
Travis: That's it, that's my turn.
Laura: That was a good turn.
Matt: But he is done, that war chief is done. Well done. That brings us to Vax.
Liam: All right, I'm going to curve around to the front of the tent I'm at and start aiming at the larger orc who's whacking on Keyleth there.
Matt: All right, glancing at the tent by the way, you do see there are a few people in there that are still bound and shaking and trying to look out and see what's happening.
Liam: I see them, I note them, and I'm throwing two daggers at the person attacking Keyleth, the thing.
Matt: All right.
Liam: First one is, and I'm using-- I'm going to use Luck. That's a point, straight up in the air.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Fuck, okay, the first one probably misses. 16, and I was using the minus five, so the first one probably misses, 11.
Matt: Yes, that guy right there?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, that misses unfortunately.
Liam: All right, second one.
Matt: Or it doesn't miss, it hits him but it hits the armor plates of his full plate, it's too, or the plate of the armor it's wearing is too strong and the blade can't pierce it.
Liam: Second one is a 26.
Matt: That does hit.
Liam: Which hits, and since he's up against Keyleth I get sneak attack damage.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: So here comes the damage. (counting) 25.
Matt: 25. With that, the first one hits the armor and streaks off and vanishes into the snow. The guy turns around and looks over and looks at you directly, grins, shrugging off the earth elemental to his side, grabs his greataxe and begins to move forward in a direction towards you angrily. However, as you let loose the second dagger, it catches him right in the center of the face, embedding itself between his eyes, and one wanders off as the momentum carries it forward three or four steps. (thudding) And grinds its face into the ground right before reaching you, into the fire. The body catches flame as soon as it lands, collapsing into one of the campfires and it begins to burn.
Liam: Sorry, sweetheart. And I feel the dagger go--
Matt: Yep, to the side of your Blinkback Belt. All right, do you want to stay right there? You have more movement if you want to use it.
Liam: How much left? Like five or ten?
Matt: Three more squares, 15 feet.
Liam: I'm going to walk up right up next to Keyleth in front of the bear. One, can I go diagonally?
Matt: Through the fire, you can if you want to.
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Matt: Make an acrobatics check, go for it.
Liam: 27.
Matt: Okay, yeah, you basically run and leap up over the body of the guy you just killed, using him as a stepping stone, and you see ash and embers (whoosh) out the side as the pressure pushes him further into the fireplace. You leap in the air, land next to the one orc that's attacking Trinket and right next to where Keyleth is currently standing as the earth elemental.
Laura: Not unlike a raven taking flight.
Liam: Aren't you far away?
Taliesin: (uncannily good crow noises)
Matt: Percy, you're up. That was way too good.
Taliesin: I've been paid good money for that.
Matt: Your turn.
Taliesin: I can emote as a bird.
Marisha: Whose? His.
Matt: Percy's turn, yeah.
Taliesin: My turn. Look at that, is there only one guy standing now?
Matt: There are two guys standing right now, and a bear.
Taliesin: Okay, I'll look at that guy who's right in front of me--
Marisha: Two guys and a bear with Charlie Sheen, new to CBS.
Matt: Oh, disadvantage on your next roll.
Liam: For the rest of the arc.
Matt: Percy, what've you got?
Taliesin: I'm going to take a push shot, I haven't tried a push shot before, I'm going to do a push shot on that guy in front of me.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Taliesin: That's 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Taliesin: All right, that's 13 points of damage and he pushes directly away from me ten feet.
Matt: He does. Into the fire.
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: So it does 13 damage, runs back, falls onto the body of the other orc that's currently now engulfed in flames and catches fire himself. He takes six points of fire damage on top of that. and is currently in danger of catching fire.
Taliesin: That's good. And then, let's see, the bear is a still a problem, isn't he?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: I'll sneak another shot at the bear.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: This is going to be a sharpshooter and a trick shot, I can't take both at the same time, can I, it's one or the other?
Matt: No, sharpshooter is your feat. Trick shot, you can't take multiple trick shots, but you can sharpshooter and--
Taliesin: And trick shot. I'm going to sharpshooter and trick shot.
Matt: Made a mistake once, we learned.
Taliesin: And that's 23?
Matt: 23 hits. Big bear. It's not that hard to hit.
Taliesin: Not that hard to hit? Has to take a constitution saving throw.
Matt: That is 11.
Taliesin: No, he has disadvantage on attacks until the end of his next turn.
Matt: Headshot?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: All right, so you go ahead and roll damage for that.
Marisha: Is this against the bear?
Taliesin: Yeah. 25 points of damage.
Matt: 25 points of damage. You-- after you fire, the one orc stumbling back and catching flames, you turn around and look at the bear. Fire again, it strikes the front of its bony ridge on its head, where the brow line is, shattering part of the bone and causing it to rear back. Looks very disoriented. It's still angry and ready to swipe, but it doesn't really know where it's standing at the moment.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn through my action surge really quickly and reload and take two more shots. Two more sharpshooter shots, nothing fancy.
Matt: Go for it. Against?
Taliesin: The bear.
Matt: The bear? Go for it.
Liam: Don't be a happy bear, be a sad bear.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: That's 20 points of damage.
Travis: Holy shit.
Matt: That actually, with that shot, you aim for the other part of the brow, release it, and with that it shatters part of the bear's face. You hit a part of the bone ridge that causes the front of the skull to break, and you can see part of its face collapses a bit as the bear, in a pile on the ground.
Laura: No!
Taliesin: So I have one last shot.
Matt: You do.
Taliesin: Can I spend a grit to try and shoot the rope that's holding that guy in the tree?
Matt: Yeah. You have disadvantage if you do.
Taliesin: Disadvantage. Grit or no grit?
Matt: Oh, oh sorry, to use a grit point...
Taliesin: I can actually technically get advantage on the shot.
Matt: I was going to say, you could, yeah. So if you want to do that, go for it.
Taliesin: Yeah, so I'll spend a grit point on that. Natural 20.
Travis: Ah! The golden snitch.
Matt: With that, you aim, take a moment, fire the bullet. You catch it in a way where it doesn't completely cut the rope, it's one of those rare perfect shots where it takes two of the three threads that holds the rope together, as they untether, it causes his body to (creaks) and it causes him to begin to sway a little bit. As the counter-sway comes back, it snaps, and it manages to catch him to hit the edge of the tree, fall into a few branches that break his fall, and he tumbles out.
Sam: Ow!
Matt: Only taking one point of damage.
Taliesin: Can't even kill a kitten with that.
Marisha: Can't even kill a kitten.
Matt: That was a one in a million shot right there.
Taliesin: No, it was a one in 20 shot.
Matt: One in 20 for you, yeah. One in a million for anybody else. But you're Percival.
Taliesin: I'm cool.
Matt: Okay, cool. That brings us to Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Who's left alive?
Matt: There are two orcs, one that's currently on fire and down in the flame trying to pull itself up. The other is currently whaling on Grog out of anger, but is starting to look around and notice it's not a very good situation.
Travis: No no, stay, we've got party favors.
Matt: Keyleth, what have you got?
Marisha: Are we still trying to keep one alive?
Sam: Sure we are.
Marisha: Sure. All right.
Taliesin: I assume the one that isn't on fire, but you know, that's my opinion.
Marisha: Yeah, sure. I want to earth glide underneath and pop up underneath of him.
Matt: This guy here?
Marisha: The fire guy, yeah.
Matt: The fire guy. He's actually on top of another larger orc, so you burst through, the fire is destroyed and you see a bunch of the stone is thrown aside, what was the campfire has now been detonated in a burst of snow and earth. You burst out. Are you catching him?
Marisha: Yeah. That's cool.
Matt: So you burst up, the bigger orc body then rolls off onto the ground and keeps smoldering. You catch the guy who's on fire, currently holding him above you. What are you going to do?
Marisha: First, I want to stamp him out in the fire, in the snow, sorry. Stamp out his fire in the snow.
Matt: You're clutching him. He's flailing about in your grip. Fire's out.
Marisha: And then I'm going to, I want to grapple onto him. I want to start dragging him over to this nearby tree.
Matt: So make a grapple check, it's an athletics.
Marisha: Athletics?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: I've only got basic stats here.
Matt: Roll a d20, add your strength modifier.
Marisha: Oh. 19. 20, 20.
Matt: He rolled a one. Yep. Through the flames and the chaos, he can't even resist, and you have him in a full grapple. He's not restrained, he can still attack, but he's at disadvantage on all his attacks, but he can't move, his movement is zero and you're currently holding him in place.
Marisha: Okay. Can I start dragging him over so--
Matt: At half-speed, yeah, you've already done 20 feet to get there, so you can move him ten feet.
Marisha: Okay. I'll slowly start dragging him to this tree over here. So we can tie him up.
Matt: One, two. That's as far as you can drag him there.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: As you're pulling him back, and he's like, (struggling noises).
Marisha: Come on.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: All right, I'm going to turn Trinket around, he's going to attack that dude that got a hit on him. The one behind him.
Matt: Right here? Oh, the one behind him is the one that currently is being dragged away after being set on fire.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: There's one on me.
Laura: Okay, he runs up to the one on Grog. But he moves out of the way so that I can get a clean shot on him.
Matt: Okay. Moves around.
Laura: And he bites him and he claws him!
Matt: Go for it!
Laura: Okay.
Matt: This is your bonus action?
Laura: Huh?
Matt: You're giving him the attack on the bonus action?
Laura: I still get a bonus action, he gets to attack and I get to attack.
Matt: Okay, so yeah, so you get one attack and he gets both attacks. Go for it.
Laura: Yeah, he gets two attacks because of Bestial Fury. Gosh darn it! That one's good, okay. He bites the shit out of him.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll damage on that.
Travis: (laughs) "Gosh darn it!"
Laura: What is that, 13? No, 12.
Matt: 12, all right.
Laura: And then I'm going to shoot him from my hiding spot.
Matt: Okay. So you dart out from behind the tree and release an arrow, go for it.
Laura: All right.
Liam: Get it, girl.
Sam: Don't hit me.
Liam: That's all right.
Laura: 20.
Matt: 20 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Great. 16 plus sneak attack. 19.
Matt: 19 points of damage. This arrow strikes him in the side of the throat, he gurgles and falls on the ground. As he's trying to grab, Trinket uses that and pounces on top and rips out, tears its throat out.
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: That orc is done. Currently, at this moment, the camp is cleared out except for the one that Keyleth's currently grappling, and you guys all turn around and you can see now, there is the other tent still filled with people. The other two here disappear into the mansion's doorway.
Marisha: (rock voice) Grog.
Travis: Oh, sweet, yeah, hold on. You hold one end, I'll hold the other. Wait. No, that might be something-- never mind. And I take out Craven Edge. I walk up to the orc that she's holding.
Marisha: And I put him in a nice little sleeper hold.
Travis: Yeah, look, mate. So unless you want to bleed or lose the head that's attached to your body, are there more of you around these parts?
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Sam: I don't think he can understand you, Grog.
Travis: He speaks fear.
Sam: Oh.
Travis: I get advantage on those because I--
Matt: Because of Craven Edge, yeah.
Travis: 25.
Matt: The orc's looking at you, and while it was putting on a brave face, as soon as you approach, holding out Craven Edge, your muscles rippling with the arcane strength of the blade that his fallen friends have imbued you with, as each step happens the shadows that drift off the blade begin to drift up your arm and off your shoulder, and from his perspective the whole world goes dark around you as you take each step. And that grimace on the orc's face falls into fight-or-flight fear. He says, "No. We are the only ones. I am the only one."
Travis: Have you had any dealings with the goliaths that are in Westruun?
Matt: "We don't deal with goliaths." Spits blood, but it can only get, with what little bit of strength it has left, only dribbles down the chin in a not-very-aggressive way.
Travis: Anything else?
Sam: Yeah, we need to know, wait. Does he know anything else? Is there another camp, is there anything?
Taliesin: No.
Sam: They just had some prisoners?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah, is there any reason why I should leave you alive? (laughs) I love this question.
Matt: He goes, "No. I should go to whoever made us. I will die here with my brethren. I will not run a coward."
Liam: Has he seen a cave with a sphinx in it?
Sam: Yeah, sphinx?
Travis: Before I dispatch you to your maker, have you seen a sphinx or a cave of magical origin around these parts?
Matt: "Rot in Kord's prison, half-giant."
Travis: And I take Craven Edge and I grab both of his ankles, and I pull them apart and I shove the blade up under his grundle, and then rip one of his legs off.
Matt: It's a horrific display. Even the earth elemental takes a step back.
Taliesin: Cool.
Matt: Fails the constitution saving throw.
Travis: Yes!
Laura: While that was going on, I wanted to run forward and work on the guy that fell from the tree. I wasn't paying attention to that.
Matt: Yeah, Pike has gone over to help, and he's pretty messed up, but Pike's already gotten to him at this point while this is happening. You come over and aid and manage to keep him from dying. He's unconscious, still, and he slowly comes to consciousness--
Laura: Does he look like the description that we got?
Matt: Yeah, it's Cyrus. Bloodied, horribly brutalized, but alive. What's your strength at now?
Travis: Plus four to attack and plus 11 for damage.
Matt: What's your strength score at?
Travis: Oh, score. It is now 21.
Matt: 21, nice. Fuck, dude.
Laura: You're stronger than Pike again.
Travis: Yeah, only for a little bit.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: Are there any other prisoners still tied up?
Sam: Yeah, I'm in the other tent untying them.
Matt: Yeah, there's three more in this side over here, you guys were--
Sam: Calming them down, looking for loot.
Travis: 20.
Marisha: I was going to say, before I drop my earth elemental form I start busting open some of these crates for quick lootage.
Matt: You should have a higher strength than 20 if you kept it from the last basilisk fight. Because you're 17, you got how many bonuses from that combat?
Travis: Seven from-- without the short rest, so it's been seven?
Matt: You've got seven bonus benefits.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: So you're 24 then, aren't you?
Travis: No, only 21, because it takes two to go up the thing, right?
Laura: No--
Taliesin: Oh boy.
Matt: Okay. So. Every time they fail a saving throw, your strength goes up by one. Every two strength, you get a bonus.
Travis: Oh.
Matt: That's how it works.
Travis: Oh. I'm at 24.
Matt: So your strength is 24.
Marisha: (laughs) That's awesome!
Matt: Which means your overall strength bonus should be plus seven.
Liam: Juicing, man, he's juicing.
Travis: I'm going to turn that plus four to a plus seven.
Matt: Because your strength modifier normally is plus three, correct?
Travis: Correct.
Matt: At 17. With every even number it goes up, and it goes up one point by each time you steal a strength. Every two that you, every time it hits an even number, 18, 20, 22, 24, the modifier goes up by one. So yeah, if you're strength's at 24 right now, your overall strength modifier is plus seven. So it would be a plus four on top of whatever your normal attacking damage was already.
Laura: Wow.
Taliesin: So your strength saving throw goes up by one.
Travis: So plus four is correct. I had plus four down. Okay, got it. Got it, got it, got it.
Matt: Plus four on top of what you had normally, yes.
Travis: On what I had normally.
Liam: Let's get this camp cleared and get these people inside Scanlan's love shack.
Matt: As you're untying them, they're all, "Thank you, thank you so much, they took us in the night, we didn't know, we thought we were dead." And some of them start breaking down into tears. There's a little girl in there that amongst everyone is probably the most stalwart, and is trying to calm one of the men that's sobbing, she's like, "It's okay, it's okay." And is patting him on the shoulder.
Marisha: It's always the kids, man. It's always the kids.
Laura: Are you survivors of Westruun?
Matt: "Yes. We were up by the base and they came in the night and they killed my wife and they took me. They took everything."
Laura: You're safe now.
Matt: "Thank you."
Laura: As is your camp.
Matt: "Thank you."
Travis: If I could ask, have you seen-- fuck, Wilhand?
Sam: Wilhand?
Travis: Yeah, Wilhand. Yeah.
Laura: Small, older, gnomish fellow?
Matt: The little girl pipes up and goes, "Yeah, yeah, Wilhand. He was as tall as me."
Travis: I drop down to my knees. You seem very brave. Do you know where Wilhand has gone?
Matt: "I haven't seen him since we left town."
Laura: So he stayed in the town.
Matt: "I haven't seen him outside of it."
Sam: Oh, the town. We were in the camp. Okay.
Laura: What's your name, darling?
Matt: "Vanessa."
Laura: Vanessa. You're very strong, Vanessa.
Matt: "Thank you. You're very strong too."
Laura: Oh, well, thank you. Do you like bears? Not those scary ones but really nice ones?
Matt: And you see she's a little-- bears are a rough subject for her, she's probably seen them eat a few people she knew.
Laura: Trinket sits back. He's friendly.
Travis: He's super cuddly. And I run over and I put Trinket in a headlock and give him a noogie. See? Totally nice.
Matt: Trinket breaks free and licks you right across the face, your beard up to the side again.
Travis: Here we go again.
Matt: She chuckles.
Marisha: I drop elemental form and start helping Pike heal whoever needs healing.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I go for that circlet that was on the war chief.
Travis: Oh, good call.
Liam: Grog.
Travis: Yeah?
Laura: I inspect it first.
Liam: We should bury the dead. There's piles of dead, we should bury them.
Laura: Was it human bodies or animal bodies?
Matt: They were human bodies.
Travis: Yeah, of course, you're right.
Liam: We'll put them in the pit and then we'll cover it up. Gimme a hand.
Travis: Yeah. Whatever you need.
Matt: The rest of the people, while you guys are doing this, have been escorted into the mansion. They're all in there being cleaned up, the servants are tending to them, and I mean, they'll be shat out of there in 24 hours, but--
Sam: It's fine. They'll have a good night's sleep.
Matt: At this point you hear a voice in the distance say, "Hey! Is everything all right?"
Laura: Oh, quite, come on over!
Matt: Walking out from behind a tree, a one-armed man. He comes running over. "I heard a lot of craziness going on. Those-- you did good, saw a little bit of it."
Sam: Did you have to use your dagger at all?
Matt: "No, but I kept it there just in case." And he's still clutching it in his hand.
Travis: There's one standing behind you right now.
Matt: (yelps) Spins around and swings it, loses his grip of it, and it (dagger flying) into the tree, and he's like, runs over, grabs it.
Travis: Nobody saw that. Totally cool.
Matt: "Okay, thank you." So you guys begin taking the bodies over and putting them into the pit on top of the orc that you blew most of the forehead off of.
Taliesin: Two orcs, what did we, two--
Marisha: Two dryads.
Taliesin: Two dryads, two orcs.
Laura: The circlet?
Matt: Well, the dryads have vanished by now at this point, the magic. You inspect the circlet, the circlet is more of adornment, looks like it was a symbol of power, does not appear to have anything magical about it, but the uncut gem in the center appears to be a raw ruby, probably worth about 150 gold in its current form. You also find on their bodies overall, from the ones that you have access to, an additional 230 gold pieces. And amongst the goods that have been gathered here, if you should wish to return them or keep them for yourself, there is roughly 700 gold pieces amongst the other bits of dried food, starting-to-rot vegetables.
Sam: There's a couple boars, right?
Matt: There are a couple boars that were dragged in, that have been killed.
Taliesin: Let's eat the food that won't last and return, cook the boar and return.
Matt: There is one unspoiled fire.
Marisha: Yeah, can we take a short rest?
Taliesin: We can also bring the food into the mansion and let the help cook it.
Sam: That's true. How about the casks, what's in the casks?
Matt: There are four casks of varying size, there are two large, large casks, there's one giant grain barrel, there's one barrel that appears to be of a standard ale, and there are two smaller wine barrels. Only one of them appears to be labeled, or at least hasn't been fully rubbed off. They're nothing special, these are probably grabbed by whoever ran a tavern in Westruun and took what they could during the chaos.
Travis: All ale and wine is special.
Matt: Fair enough.
Sam: We should take that, and wait, this meat, don't we have a cold bag? Don't we have a cooler?
Travis: We do!
Sam: Let's keep some meat.
Travis: That nothing is in!
Laura: No, we do have some stuff in it.
Travis: Some stuff is in it!
Sam: Keep some grain and meat or something.
Laura: All right, yeah, I'm keeping some boar meat.
Marisha: But seriously, I eat some because I'm-- Keyleth's a little hungry.
Laura: I thought you were a vegetarian.
Marisha: No, never said that.
Travis: Can I try and roughly butcher this boar?
Matt: You've done it pretty well. You butcher the boar, there's already a stump set up for you, previously used for not quite as humane reasons, but you manage to prepare the boar, cook it over the area here. As the sun slowly begins to set, you guys take your short rest. Is everyone taking a short rest?
Travis: Not me, not me.
Matt: Okay, so you maintain your damage, you still maintain your--
Sam: Wait, the sun is setting, are we taking a short rest or a long rest? Are we spending the night?
Liam: Can't we go in your house?
Sam: Of course we can, yeah. Are we going to spend the night? What time is it?
Matt: It's about five o'clock in the afternoon.
Sam: Oh, little early.
Liam: Let's pack it in early. Who knows what'll happen tomorrow?
Sam: Are we going up to the mountain?
Liam: Yeah, tomorrow morning.
Sam: All right. Do we need to scout up? How far to the mountaintop?
Taliesin: We're not going to the mountaintop.
Sam: Or the glowing place.
Matt: Where the beacon is? Keyleth would be the one that knows, since she's the one who marked it. It's probably about an hour and a half's travel on foot to get there.
Sam: We should go check it out before we go to bed, swing by on a broom or something.
Laura: I like it. I'll hop on the broom.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Wait, check it out and then? Your door is stationary, though, right?
Matt: The door is stationary, the door is on the outside of this camp.
Travis: But everybody inside's safe.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Do it.
Laura: Can I stealth in the air?
Matt: Not really.
Laura: Can I wrap myself in like my--
Travis: What? Aluminum foil?
Matt: I mean, you will make a stealth check.
Liam: You'll figure this broom out eventually.
Matt: I'm going to put it at disadvantage because you are, it's possible, but you're also a giant rocketing half-elf in the sky.
Laura: I'm not that giant, okay?
Travis: Wow. Wow.
Matt: Roll disadvantage.
Laura: So I usually get advantage, so I'll just roll regular.
Travis: I love your broom rolls so much.
Laura: Oh! Oh! You know what, I still have Pass Without a Trace, because I never cast Hunter's Mark to break that concentration.
Liam: You nerd.
Travis: I would not remember that shit.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23. All right. Cool. Don't forget your point of exhaustion, Grog. From the end of the frenzied rage.
Travis: Yes, thank you.
Sam: I'm going to go with her. You're going on the broom? Yeah, I'm going to turn into a mangy crow that looks like it would be with a witch.
Laura: I like it. (cackles)
Sam: I'll Polymorph.
Matt: Polymorph. You follow her as a crow.
Sam: And I perch on her shoulder. (crow sounds)
Taliesin: (unnervingly realistic crow noises)
Sam: Thank you!
Matt: That's so creepy.
Taliesin: (unnervingly realistic crow noises)
Matt: Perfect.
Sam: Wow. Thank you.
Matt: So as you continue cresting over the top of the tree ridge, heading towards the direction that Keyleth points out to you, you guys swoop down. As the treeline comes to an end, the snow begins to subside and you reach the base of the Stormpeak. There, make a perception check, both of you, actually.
Sam: Mine sucks. Natural one.
Laura: I'm so scared of all my dice right now.
Matt: What you got?
Laura: 17.
Matt: 17? Okay.
Laura: Oh wait! Favored terrain.
Matt: Mountains?
Sam: You're in the air, though.
Laura: Forest at the edge of the mountain.
Matt: Does not pertain to the forest, more of it's the mountain.
Laura: Okay. 17.
Matt: 17, okay. As the sun finally hits the edge of the mountain range and begins to set, and the light's starting to diminish, you're having a hard time picking out details. You know the general vicinity that Keyleth pointed at you, it takes longer than you anticipated, but eventually you come-- and there are a few small caves and entrances to the side of this mountain, but after you sweep past once or twice, doing a couple loops, one catches your eye. You look at it from this vantage point. It looks like a small inlet, like a cavern. As you get closer, unlike the other rough entrances, this one seems intentionally carved in the mountainside in a triangle. Directly about 30 feet to its peak, there is a triangular entrance to the very very base of this mountain that is recessed into the mountain rock itself.
Laura: I don't think we should land on the ground, we should just stay above.
Sam: (crow sounds)
Taliesin: (realistic crow sounds)
Laura: You can't talk when you're a bird?
Matt: He cannot.
Laura: Oh. This is really smart, you coming, because we can't do anything. Do you want to pop out of that, can you pop back in? One caw for yes, two caws for no. You can't even understand me right now? This is ridiculous.
Sam: I don't know, can I understand her?
Matt: You can understand her, yeah.
Sam: I'm just fucking with her, then. (laughter)
Matt: But she doesn't know if you understand.
Laura: I float down gracefully on the broom and give it a little bit of a closer look.
Matt: Okay. As you pull down to the edge of the tunnel, the cavern entrance, you can see the relatively worn, through time and weathering, the structure of the tunnel, even though it is intentional, it has been there for a long time, and you can see the effect that time has had on it, from what was once a very pristine entrance. Looking inside, it goes dark about 25 feet in. Do you want to step further into the cavern?
Laura: No no no, I'm still in the air, I'm not on the ground.
Matt: Okay, so yeah, looking inside about 25 feet past, what little bit of daylight that still exists disappears into the shadow of the cavern, you don't know anything beyond that.
Laura: What do you think, Scanlan? Back up a little bit and shoot a flaming arrow into that?
Sam: (caws)
Laura: Sweet. I back up a little, far distance away, and shoot a flaming arrow into it.
Matt: Okay, so you pull out your arrow, the shaft ignites as you release it. It arcs forward and it lights up a little bit of the tunnel around it, tunnel continues--
Liam: Good aim from the broom?
Matt: Decent aim.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: I mean, it's not a wide target, she's shooting it into an open 30-foot space.
Laura: And it's not moving, it's not fucking moving right now.
Liam: I've watched Harry Potter, they always have two hands on the broom.
Laura: Why are you trying to do this to me right now? Why you got to be a player hater?
Liam: Because it's fun.
Matt: From the narrative standpoint, it's fine. She could take another shot and it would make it there anyway. You can see it go through, and it arcs and then disappears. You see what looks like an edge, and it vanishes past it.
Laura: Well. That looks deep. I don't think we should check this out on our own.
Sam: Might be fun.
Laura: You're a bird, you could probably fly in and fly back out.
Sam: Sure. (caws) Okay, I'll fly in.
Matt: Okay. You head down, coasting into the darkness. Does your form have--
Sam: I have darkvision, I don't know what crows have.
Matt: If you have darkvision. But you, crows--
Sam: I don't know what a crow has.
Matt: I will look it up real fast.
Taliesin: I don't think a crow has darkvision.
Matt: Hold on, hold on.
Travis: They're dark as night, man, of course they do.
Sam: Are they daytime birds? They're daytime birds. They're not owls.
Taliesin: They're not owls.
Sam: Shit.
Laura: Should've been a fucking owl.
Taliesin: (owl sounds)
Sam: You can do that too? Quick, do a nightingale.
Matt: No, you do not have darkvision as a--
Sam: So I'm just flying around in the dark knocking into things.
Matt: Yeah. Essentially, you coast into the shadow, hitting a couple things. You eventually hit ceiling.
Sam: Ow!
Matt: And coast down and you land harshly, taking three points of damage in your crow form as you hit and land and tumble down a few stairs.
Sam: Ooh, stairs.
Matt: At that point, you're in complete darkness right now, you can see a faint distant bit of light that's barely creeping in from the entrance you came from. Around you, though, nothing.
Sam: I'll break form and come back as Scanlan.
Matt: Okay. You come back as a gnome. Now your darkvision kicks in and indeed you can see there is a smoothly carved tunnel overhead that descends down a long flight of stairs. Make a perception check.
Sam: Natural 18. (laughter)
Matt: And you have 60-foot darkvision? As a gnome?
Sam: It just says darkvision. I didn't write down the distance.
Matt: Okay, I'm going to look this up real fast. Because this is important to know for this circumstance.
Liam: By the way, blackbird has a hit point of one, so technically you popped back into gnome form the second you hit the ground.
Matt: Does it actually have one hit point?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Then yeah.
Marisha: Darkvision is 60 feet, I wrote it down.
Sam: 60 feet. I'll write it down for the future.
Matt: There you go. So yeah, your vision just hits the edge of the staircase, which stops, and then continues forward. The darkness beyond there is obscured, or a hint of blue light that slightly shifts and glimmers beyond your vision. It seems like the tunnel ceiling ends as the path continues beyond that, and your vision is cut off beyond that. You cannot see, but you do see a very very faint blue shimmer coming from the tunnel beyond.
Laura: I float up to the edge of the mouth of the cave and say, (whispers) Scanlan?
Matt: (echoes) Scanlan, Scanlan, Scanlan.
Sam: Wow, I've always wanted that to happen.
Matt: (echoes) Happen, happen--
Laura: (whispers) Are you alive?
Sam: Can I see down the blue thing?
Matt: You can go down further if you want to.
Sam: I don't want to go to where the blue is, I just want to see if I can peek down there?
Matt: You'd have to descend the stairs to. Because the actual tunnel continues down along with the roof and then as it continues past, it levels off.
Sam: I'm going to die. I'm going to shoot one single Magic Missile into the space.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Laura: What if that's his face?
Matt: All right, so you take the wand, and the Magic Missile, which gives a very faint candlelight glow around it as it is a burst of arcane energy, arcs down and slams into the stonework and filters out. The little flash you see at the base of the stairway, the stonework there is like a tiled square stonework, it looks like the further you descend, the more and more there is a constructed architecture to this place, however, the missile dashes against the stone tile floor at the bottom of the stairway. No other seeming reaction, that same blue glimmer unchanged.
Sam: Okay. I quickly pee a little on the side of the wall, just a little bit, okay. Zip up, turn into an owl and get outta there. At level five, because I'm out of level four.
Matt: Okay, so. (hooting) An owl ascends quickly and spooks you.
Laura: I stay at the mouth of the cave and say, (whispers) Scanlan, are you alive?
Matt: (echoing) Alive, alive, alive.
Laura: (whispers) Scanlan?
Matt: (echoing) Scanlan, Scanlan.
Laura: Wait. Scanlan! Is that you? You were a crow.
Sam: (confused hooting)
Laura: Okay. That's you. Should we go?
Taliesin: You're just turning your head 180 degrees back and forth, aren't you?
Sam: Oh yeah.
Laura: We should go back. One hoo for-- I start flying back.
Matt: Vex takes off on the broom. All right. You guys head back to the camp, make your way into the mansion, and rest for the evening. You don't rest for the evening?
Travis: No.
Sam: What?
Laura: You're exhausted.
Travis: I have one level of exhaustion, I'm okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to spend a little time tinkering before I sleep, working on the broom.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I never stopped digging, can I assume that everybody's buried?
Matt: At this point in time, yeah. By the time they've been gone, everyone's been buried, everyone's been taken care of, and you make your way back, waiting at the door for your sister to return.
Travis: What's the second level of exhaustion?
Matt: Yeah, so yeah, for not taking your evening's rest you get a second level of exhaustion and your speed is halved.
Travis: Okay. I want to see how far this can go. I want to push this.
Taliesin: I've tried this experiment in real life. It never ends well. (laughter)
Travis: I'm willing to learn.
Matt: Okay. So we'll go ahead and take a break as the party is resting for the evening, we'll be back here in a few minutes, guys, to continue this next chapter of Vox Machina's adventure. All right, see you in a little bit. [break]
Matt: Hey guys, welcome back. So. Kicking into high gear to return to the game as it's going. You guys go through your restful evening, except for Grog, resting up and getting prepared for whatever comes your way, except for Grog. As you spend the night fending off sleep, staring at Craven Edge there on your lap, feeling the cold blade against your fingertips and considering and still feeling the strength that it's imbued upon you pulsing through your veins.
Travis: Yeah, could I ask it one question?
Matt: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: Right, it was a good day, right? Like, superb.
Matt: "Yes."
Travis: Do you remember your former owners?
Matt: "I do."
Travis: Do you remember Lord Briarwood?
Matt: "I do."
Travis: How was he?
Matt: "He was a stalwart champion. He kept me fed. Mostly."
Travis: Did he give you a goal? You know, before we put him into different pieces, he was, like, trying to build up this god called Vecna. You don't know anything about a god called Vecna, do you?
Matt: "Doesn't interest me."
Travis: No?
Matt: "No."
Travis: Just the blood.
Matt: "Just the hunger."
Travis: Right, the hunger.
Matt: "It's all there is, is the hunger."
Travis: But look, we did really good today. So I'm not going to go to sleep, I'm going to carry this over the next day, I want to see how hard we can push this.
Matt: "So close to being full."
Travis: You're close to being full? Hold on, how many more lives do you need?
Matt: "I'm close."
Travis: Do you know, do you know what happens when you get full? Like, do you get bigger? Do I get stronger?
Matt: "Feed me and you'll find out."
Marisha: Oh boy.
Travis: You've got it. Can I insight check the sword?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Yes please! (laughter)
Taliesin: I've never been so happy.
Travis: (clears throat) Two. (laughter)
Matt: It's hard to read the blade, but the disposition doesn't seem to have changed any of your previous conversations, so seems hard to read. It's a sword.
Travis: Outstanding. I tell you what, if you get full, we'll celebrate this upcoming day as your birthday.
Matt: "If you insist, Grog Strongjaw."
Travis: And that'll do me for the night.
Matt: All right. You all come to, rallying your breakfast, your chicken-filled breakfast.
Laura: And some boar!
Matt: And some boar, freshly cooked by Grog, who has some dark circles under the eyes from a night of unrestful consciousness.
Laura: How you doing there, Grog? And I slap him across the face a few times.
Travis: Really good.
Laura: Yeah?
Travis: Yeah, I slept really hard.
Laura: That's good.
Travis: Lots of dreams.
Taliesin: All right. Let's send our friends on their way and make our way to the cavern that you found.
Travis: Yeah, we send them back towards the camp zone, right?
Sam: Yes, and they have a mapmaker with them, so they'll find it without a problem.
Laura: They'll know how to get back.
Matt: Tyriok's like, "Yes, I can actually find our way back quite easily from this position, as we've already traveled this way and I have a good memory for these types of things. I have to."
Laura: Yes. Will you and Cyrus inform everyone else that it's safe for them-- oh shit, we're not back, they can't go there. We'll be back, and we're going to send you to Whitestone, where you'll be safe.
Sam: Eventually. But right now, just go to your--
Taliesin: Well, they were fine rolling around, we already sent the wounded and the young to Whitestone, they're fine.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Matt: "All right, then, that can be done, and can I take my satchel with me in case I can find some way to recover it?"
Laura: Of course, it's yours, darling.
Matt: "All right." And he takes the stone arm-slash-satchel and tucks it under his arm. "All right. Rest of you." And Cyrus steps forward. "All right, well, lead the way." And they all give you guys a thank-you, the little girl runs up, Vanessa, and hugs you and hugs Keyleth, and Cyrus and them pull a couple of the orcish weapons that were left behind and arm themselves. Cyrus actually takes a couple of javelins and is like, (sighs) "I think the proper way to make vengeance with these. All right, you guys stay safe."
Laura: You too.
Matt: "Really appreciate it."
Liam: Tyriok!
Matt: "Yes?"
Liam: Could I have my loaner back, please?
Matt: (laughs) "Oh, right, right, yeah, certainly." He pulls it out and hands it to you.
Liam: I'll take that carefully. Thank you.
Laura: You can keep the opal dagger I gave you.
Matt: "Oh, thank you thank you thank you so much!"
Travis: (under his breath) Infertility.
Matt: Puts it back away. "I appreciate that. All right, so we'll be off?" The rest of the people nod, they take some of the supplies from the wagons, they begin making their way back on the already treaded path you guys made that Tyriok knows is safe to get out of the Frostweald.
Laura: Scanlan, did you see how generous I was just then?
Sam: Nope, missed it.
Laura: What's wrong, Grog?
Travis: What?
Sam: Did you have trouble sleeping?
Travis: Yeah, no, look, the sand pit was, I think I need to comb it after you use it.
Sam: Sand pit? I have a bedroom for you.
Travis: What? There's a training area downstairs just for me.
Sam: Oh Grog, you have your own bedroom upstairs. It's got a giant-sized bed in it.
Travis: I haven't been using it.
Sam: Oh, for crying-- I spent minutes thinking about conjuring that.
Marisha: Grog, you did sleep last night, right?
Travis: Yep. Yeah, I mean, like, I had my way with a few of those imaginary friends, because, man. No. It was good. Good sleep. Real, a little sore in my back.
Liam: I'm going to make an insight check on Grog.
Matt: Insight check, go for it.
Liam: Yeah. 16.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Whispers!
Laura: Whispers about Grog?
Liam: I've never had a whisper before!
Laura: You've never had a whisper?
Liam: On the show.
Taliesin: It's warm in your ear.
Sam: I don't know what products we're selling currently, but I assume there are some.
Taliesin: We do know that Gilmore's Glorious Goods shirts will be shipping out next week.
Sam: Oh wow! The preorder shirts?
Taliesin: Gilmore's Glorious Goods shirt, the preorder shirt will be shipping out next week. We'll be using this time to ignore what's happening over here while the Gilmore's Glorious Goods shirts ship out next week.
Marisha: And of course don't forget to tune in next week for our 50th episode.
Taliesin: 50th episode. Not anniversary.
Sam: 50th episode. There's going to be special giveaways. I don't know. Is that true? I don't know.
Laura: What, no, there's not.
Matt: So. What do you want to do?
Marisha: Shall we? Up the mountain!
Laura: Wait. So did we already tell everyone what we saw?
Marisha: I'm assuming you told us when you got back.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You guys informed the party of what you saw.
Sam: There's a triangle, seems to be Ioun-based.
Laura: Blue light.
Sam: Smells of urine inside, it's very weird.
Liam: Scanlan, maybe not black birds for a while. All right? It's a touchy subject.
Sam: Ooh, sorry. I forgot. Well actually, no, I don't know what you're talking about.
Liam: Stay away from black birds for a while.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: Thanks, buddy.
Sam: Sure, no problem.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way southward to the Frostweald.
Sam: The Frostweald.
Matt: Frostweald? Frostwold?
Taliesin: Frost-vield. What is wrong with-- Frost-vield.
Marisha: Frost-Willem Dafoe.
Sam: Sig-il.
Matt: I will smite you.
Marisha: Jif.
Taliesin: Jif. God damn it, you beat me to it.
Matt: All right. You guys continue to head south, eventually following the path that you lead along with Keyleth's directional--
Laura: I keep an eye out for any enemies along the way.
Matt: Indeed you do, make a perception check, being the scout person for this.
Laura: I'm going to do that with advantage because I'm in the woods.
Matt: You're in the forest, yeah, that is true.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25. With that, you manage to skirt the outside of what appears to be another localized basilisk nest. You catch it early enough and guide the party around it to avoid that on your way.
Laura: Let's go this way and then circle back.
Matt: You eventually make your way to the outskirts of the forest, the trees begin to thin out, the snow begins to melt, the temperature begins to rise somewhat. It's still cold-ish, but it's less freezing.
Travis: Oh right, the Frost-weald.
Matt: Yeah, there's been a long-term enchantment over this forest that has kept it the way it is, you're not certain as to what the actual reasons are for it. Eventually, as the sun reaches not quite zenith but later morning, you find your way to the outside of this tunnel that you and Scanlan had found the evening before. There before you, you guys see the 30-foot-tall triangular entrance to this passageway deeper into the mountain itself.
Laura: So this is the place. Technically, Scanlan flew in, so I don't think he had to check for traps.
Sam: I did not check for traps, I just flew in, but perhaps we should this time.
Liam: Lead me in as far as you went.
Sam: If you'll check for traps.
Liam: Yeah. Where you flew over, yeah.
Sam: Yes, let's do it.
Liam: In the entrance and down those stairs.
Matt: All right. So go ahead and make an investigation check.
Liam: 20. No, 17.
Matt: 17.
Sam: I will also check for traps.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check.
Sam: 22.
Liam: Checking for traps, I should know this, but is that separate from perception for me?
Matt: Perception is to notice various details in here, if you're actually actively searching for trap mechanisms like that, investigation is generally more used. Yeah.
Sam: 22.
Matt: I mean, they're both pretty similar in some ways and it depends on the circumstances.
Liam: But is it a different roll? Traps? Or is it just perception and investigation?
Matt: Perception and investigation, depending on the circumstance, one or the other. For the most part, perception would be like if you notice something wrong about the room, you'd be like, that stone seems different, then you would do investigation to try to find out what type of trap it is per se, or if you were actively searching for traps, that would be more of an investigation, like knowing where you've seen around, and seeing the terrain to possibly facilitate something like that.
Liam: It's only my third year doing this.
Matt: I know, it's all good. What did you have again?
Sam: 22.
Matt: 22. All right. As you guys slowly descend the steps, as you get about 25, 30 feet into the tunnel before it lowers into these stone steps, and they're rather large steps. Each spread of your gait is wider than the common step, and these have been around for a very long time. You can see where the corners are, they're rounded. Looks like at points in time there may have been flooding in this area that has caused that type of softening of the stonework at the tip, though the little bit of moisture that's in this area seems to be from blown-in snow possibly or another source you don't currently see. It is pitch-dark in here, if anyone would like to--
Travis: I have darkvision.
Matt: He has darkvision. Darkvision, darkvision. Darkvision, darkvision. Absolutely blind.
Liam: I'm pulling out Flametongue dagger.
Marisha: Then I'll light up my hands a little bit.
Matt: Okay, so you guys have a low candlelight, so it gives you a little bit of vision, but it's still very, very dim. You guys make your way down the stairway, step to step, and you can hear each footstep echoes as you continue downward. It progresses deeper and deeper and you begin to see this gentle blue flickering light at the very bottom of the staircase as it begins to approach, and your eyes have adjusted to the darkness at this point in time.
Laura: Does it look like water reflection?
Matt: It looks like it could be some sort of water-like movement, and as you hit the bottom of the stairway and it evens out into these square stone tiles across the way, you see ahead of you what looks to be a singular circular room with no exits from what you can tell at this point. Just a circular room that loops around, and in the center there is a ten-foot pool of a still, somewhat still surface of water. There is a little bit of movement because there is some sort of a cold breeze that was ejecting out of the tunnel, but there is no real source of the wind that you can pick up at the moment.
Laura: Can I investigate the walls? Did you already check for traps in this room?
Liam: I did an investigation check.
Matt: As you entered this room?
Liam: Yeah, I'll do it again here.
Matt: That was when you guys were going down the stairway, go ahead and make the roll.
Liam: I'm going to use Luck.
Sam: I got a 24.
Matt: 24, okay.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18, okay. The two of you, there is a very, very faint blue glow that is emanating from below the surface of the water that is giving this very, very tiny bit of light to the room. Thankfully because most of you are darkvision-based, it doesn't impede you from seeing all the details in the room. Percy, you'll still not be able to make out the fine details.
Taliesin: That's why I'm in the back.
Matt: But between the two of you inspecting the edges, there are no seams, there are no doors, there are no other passages. You do, however, see script across the opposite side of the room that is chiseled into the stonework itself in Elvish script.
Marisha: Oh, Elvish.
Matt: Oh sorry, this is not Elvish, Elvish was the obelisk. What languages do you--
Liam: Common, Elvish, and Abyssal.
Matt: What languages do you know?
Sam: Gnome and Common.
Matt: It is a language neither of you know.
Taliesin: Can I take a look at it?
Sam: You can't see nothing.
Liam: I walk up with my dagger and hold it underneath.
Matt: Run it across?
Taliesin: Celestial?
Matt: It is Celestial.
Taliesin: Well, there you go.
Matt: Are you the only one that knows Celestial?
Taliesin: I had not a lot of friends growing up, this was a lot of quiet time.
Matt: (laughs) That is okay. All right, so. Looking at this, it reads, and you read it out loud, the translation. The thing about Celestial, it's interesting, it's a beautiful-sounding language that even the translation to Common is built into rhyme. It says, "Knowledge dost billow, all realms are the shore. The sky a window, the water a door."
Marisha: Wait.
Laura: Wait. Start at the beginning?
Matt: "Knowledge dost billow, all realms are the shore. The sky a window, the water a door."
Travis: Yep. So in this room, it's a circle, what's the distance across the room?
Matt: It's about 30 feet across on a side.
Travis: Oh, so it's not that big.
Matt: And it's a ten-foot pool. No, it's a pretty tight space.
Travis: And there's solid flooring and then the pool in the middle.
Matt: Yeah, in the middle, so you move around. So a ten-foot walkway around it.
Laura: Can I get on the broom? And fly up above the pool of water and look down into it?
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25. Looking down into it, you see no bottom. You see the glow continues downward and it's almost like there is a very soft, faint source of light in there, but the water obscures it too much to see a bottom. It doesn't disappear into darkness, which leads you to believe that it's not endless, but you can't make out any details of where it would end or how far that is from where you are. You do see what looks to be slow, shifting movement of aquatic plant life that is gathered on the edges about ten feet down and further.
Marisha: So Percy read this out loud, right?
Taliesin: Yes, I read it out loud.
Marisha: Would Keyleth know anything about this as possibly being a portal to the realm of water? Can I do like a check to see if this is something that might be a--
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Not my strong suit.
Taliesin: Good, oh!
Laura: Oh my gosh Keyleth, you're so smart!
Marisha: I'm so smart. Just straight intelligence?
Matt: Straight intelligence.
Marisha: 15.
Matt: 15. There is talk of elements here, very plainly in the translation. It's possible. However, usually doorways to the planes have a very prominent magical signature to them, one that is especially, you are pretty sensitive to, being an Ashari, and that is a large part of what your people's charge is. You do not get the feeling that this pool is a gateway to another plane, per se, just a very deep pool.
Laura: Keyleth! Use the thing to see magical runes!
Sam: Oh yeah, yeah. The chunk, the hunk.
Marisha: Okay, I pull out my Hunk of Quall. Hunk of Quall.
Matt: Hold it up and concentrate for a moment. Doesn't seem to spark, and there doesn't appear to be a reaction.
Laura: Really thought it was going to do something, I really, really did.
Travis: Can I take a single gold coin, make a wish, and flick it into the wishing well.
Laura: I watch it go down.
Matt: Drifts from side to side, drifts down, glimmers occasionally, drifts, and then is out of sight.
Liam: There's a fairly good chance we need to go down through this. Grog and Keyleth? You're probably the best suited for this, you because your fucking chest is so big and you because you can turn into water.
Travis: I also have two vials of breathing underwater.
Laura: Hey, that's a good thing.
Marisha: I also happened to pack Control Water in my bag of tricks today.
Travis: You did?
Marisha: I did.
Travis: Fricking awesome.
Marisha: When we go underground there tends to be water, so I tend to bring it.
Laura: Should we control it, or--
Marisha: Keyleth walks up and puts her hands in the pool.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Anything happen when I touch the water?
Matt: Your hand goes in the water. It is cold, it is in line with most subterranean pools that you've encountered. Not freezing, but very chilly. Reacts like any other water that you've encountered before. It's not particularly murky, either.
Marisha: I dive in.
Matt: Keyleth, (splash). You dive in, pulling yourself down.
Liam: Grog. Go with her.
Travis: You got it.
Matt: Sinking down, and you can see the tunnel around you, it goes from smoother stone to a little rougher and as you descend you can see the algae and various aquatic plant matter and life that is gathered around, until eventually you go down about 40 feet or so, your feet hit the bottom, and you can see it ends behind you but then before you there is a tunnel, there is a continued walkway underwater forward.
Travis: I come down behind her.
Matt: You feel the impact as Grog lands right behind you. Let me see here. What's your constitution modifier? Keyleth?
Marisha: Not great. Two. Plus two.
Matt: Two? Okay. Yours is five, right? For the constitution modifier?
Travis: Oh, sorry, no, I'm being a dickhole. It is five, yeah.
Matt: Yeah, so you can hold your breath for five minutes.
Sam: Five minutes!
Marisha: Is that however long your--
Matt: Yeah, one minute per constitution modifier. For you it's two.
Marisha: Interesting.
Matt: After you've landed here, you're about 30 seconds in, looking around, Grog's there.
Marisha: How far does the tunnel look?
Matt: Make a perception check, with disadvantage because of the water distortion.
Travis: Can I look everywhere except the tunnel with my darkvision?
Marisha: Bad and bad. 16.
Matt: With disadvantage.
Marisha: 16.
Travis: Don't worry about it, it's four.
Matt: (laughs) It's not hard to see. The tunnel continues, begins to curve upward about 60 to 80 feet ahead of you. It is choked with that heavy algae slowly drifting there, but there is a path you can see to swim through where it wouldn't really stop or halt your progress. But it curves upward.
Marisha: You want to keep going?
Marisha: (underwater blubbing conversation sounds)
Travis: (underwater blubbing conversation sounds)
Matt: You're halfway through your breath, by the way. You're now at one minute.
Travis: I'll swim forward. Just to where it starts to curve up.
Matt: I'll have both you guys make athletics checks.
Travis: That sucks dick.
Laura: At disadvantage.
Travis: At a disadvantage?
Matt: No, not athletics.
Marisha: 15.
Travis: 12.
Matt: Oh, no, you do, because you have exhaustion.
Travis: Oh, that's right. 12.
Matt: 12. What?
Marisha: 15.
Matt: 15. Okay. You guys aren't having a huge issue, you get forward, you can move about half your movement forward every six seconds or so, so you manage to make your way up into the center of where the plant matter begins to grow darker and more apparent. Grog, you start making your way through. I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity save at disadvantage.
Marisha: What? What the why? What the why?
Sam: Piranhas, that's why.
Matt: Dexterity at disadvantage because you're swimming underwater, in which movement is much harder as well.
Liam: Ninja sharks.
Travis: 11.
Matt: 11. All right.
Marisha: Dolphins with lasers.
Laura: It's going to be so bad.
Matt: You take eight points of psychic damage as suddenly, out of the greenish plant matter, you see these red tendrils, these red vines of algae that begin reaching out towards you. One of them brushes against your shoulder, and you feel this surge of shock energy almost travel through your nervous system to your head, and it's like you have an instantly pounding headache and you feel your muscles begin to tense up. Make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Oh god!
Travis: That's a one. (gasping)
Matt: You feel your muscles lock up as paralysis takes over. You watch as Grog suddenly tenses up, and the air that's in his lungs escapes in a big heave.
Marisha: Upon seeing this, I reach forward and I grab hold of him and I cast Control Water and jettison the both of us out of there.
Travis: If it's water.
Laura: It's got to be water.
Marisha: I kicked the camera, sorry.
Matt: So do you, you push yourself away, you jet? Okay.
Marisha: I take a jet, jetting us back out. Waterslide!
Matt: So you pull him back using Control Water to shove you guys. Yeah, the water's basically pushing you forward, like an ice man waterslide, and make your way to the other side. Grog, you, that's the first round to get you to the bottom there, your constitution modifier's five, you have five rounds before you're officially drowning.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So she pulls you in, grabs you to the bottom. You look up. Using Control Water again to concentrate, this is going to take you two rounds to get to the top because you're carrying Grog's weight.
Laura: Can I see them coming up?
Matt: You do see the form begin, Keyleth's face begin rising to the surface. Eventually she breaks through the water, carrying Grog, who's too heavy for her, and then dips right back down in the water.
Marisha: Help!
Taliesin: Pull Grog.
Matt: You grab and pull Grog out and onto the edge, and he's locked in place, eyes wide.
Marisha: Can I take the Control Water to see if I can like waterbend it out of his lungs, if there's any water in his lungs?
Matt: Yeah. As you concentrate, you pull this single strain of water out of, it's the weirdest sensation you've ever had, as the water is pumped instantly from inside your lungs.
Travis: It's like a reverse beer bong.
Matt: (laughs) Yeah, it is. And the water scatters across the stonework on the side of the pool. It takes about 30 seconds before your muscles come back and all of a sudden you're--
Travis: (coughing and choking)
Laura: What the hell happened? What was down there?
Marisha: Really nasty plants. And I go over. I'm pretty sure my Control Water lasts for a minute, yeah?
Matt: Control Water lasts for up to ten minutes. Concentration.
Marisha: Dope. I'm going to go over, and can I start clearing the water out of this tunnel?
Matt: Where would you want it to go?
Marisha: Out?
Liam: Up the stairs. Behind us is stairs up.
Matt: You can't make water disappear. You can part it, you can do all kinds of things with it, the water still has to go somewhere.
Liam: Part it. An air tunnel for us.
Marisha: That's what I was thinking, making like an air tunnel.
Matt: Or you can redirect the flow. Up to you. What do you want to do? The abilities you have to choose from are part water, redirect flow, whirlpool, but that's not really in your realm, or flood.
Marisha: And how big was this tunnel?
Matt: All the way across, I'd say it's about 25, 20 feet across.
Marisha: That's a big tunnel. I'll part it.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So you dive back down? When are you starting to part it?
Marisha: I yell to everybody else and I say, there's a tunnel through to the other side. Let's go. And I jump in and I'll sink and I'll start parting the water behind me.
Matt: All right. So.
Marisha: Or, let me see, let me sink to the bottom and then I'll part the water in the tunnel straight ahead.
Matt: Okay. Do you guys follow suit?
Taliesin: I follow.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Are we diving into water or parted water?
Matt: You're diving into water right now.
Marisha: And before I jump in, I say, don't touch the plants on the edge.
Liam: So we're going through water to get to air.
Marisha: Yeah, that's what I'm hoping for, yeah.
Laura: Is it a fast drop, or do we float down with that water?
Matt: You float down, because she didn't part the water of the top of the tunnel, you guys float down at a natural pace, eventually touching the bottom of the subterranean tunnel, holding your breath. Keyleth moves her hands this way and the water in the center of the tunnel actually parts almost like a bubble in front of you.
Laura: Nice!
Matt: You step into that open space now and you can breathe. You all catch yourself--
Marisha: Let's go fast while I still have this concentration.
Matt: There's still droplets dropping around you. As you're holding it at bay and you push it off to the side, elements, a lot of the water has been forced out of the top for the time being wherever you're going--
Marisha: Sure, displacement physics.
Matt: Yeah. However, the planet life that was currently drifting freely is all to the ground, and is this giant mass of plant matter on the ground that is soaking wet and there.
Marisha: Okay. Don't touch the plants, let's go.
Laura: Go where?
Marisha: Forward.
Liam: Is it covering like a rug all in front of us?
Matt: I mean, there is plant matter all over the entire surface. It's thicker on the edges, because a lot of it dropped down on itself.
Liam: So are we able to pick our way through?
Matt: Yeah, it looks like a bunch of wet fur on the sides. You guys begin walking, what's the marching order here? Who's going first?
Travis: I'll go first because I'm at disadvantage on everything, so.
Matt: Okay. Grog goes first.
Liam: I'll go behind Grog.
Matt: Okay. Who's after that?
Laura: I'll go next.
Sam: I'll take Pike and go after her.
Taliesin: I'll go behind them.
Marisha: Following up their rears.
Matt: And Keyleth's following up the rear. Okay. Has Trinket stepped back into your necklace, by the way?
Laura: Yes yes yes.
Matt: Okay. Just making sure.
Travis: Hold it up, show him.
Laura: He's in my necklace.
Matt: Grog, as you step past, and you're stepping with a squashing sound as your footfalls hit each of the sections of the dark brown-greenish plant matter. It's really soggy, and Keyleth, as you're concentrating, it's a lot of water to part, and you're basically creating this 20-foot tunnel. As you begin stepping across, you can see the red vines begin to pull their way out, but without the water there, they can't support the weight of the vine itself, so currently they're unable to really shift in your direction. You can see them trying, you can see the vines (slithering) in the matted mass, but they can't actually work towards--
Laura: Can't move quickly.
Marisha: They're assholes, don't touch them.
Matt: So as you dart across, you guys each individually make your way across the other side of the tunnel where the Control Water spell ends. You can see the curvature leading upward, there is still that barrier of water that's shimmering right there in front of you. You all eventually make it past that big central patch, and as it curves upward, you can look about 35 feet at a diagonal that way, you can see the surface of water that's where it breaks.
Laura: Oh. Swim up.
Marisha: Can I take the Control Water and jettison us all up like I did with Grog?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Hold on!
Matt: So you guys all take a breath as the water wall collapses behind you, rushes up, and like a water jet all of you get jettisoned out and have to catch yourself on your feet.
Marisha: Three-point landing.
Laura: I catch myself on the broom and I fly.
Travis: I definitely roll. How does Scanlan land?
Sam: Not well.
Matt: (laughs) Scanlan's more like a waterslide, he comes out the end and feet in the air. It's fun, but--
Sam: Slip-and-slide?
Matt: Yeah! But you hit the sprinkler head you didn't know was under there. (groaning)
Travis: The worst!
Sam: There's a rock.
Travis: We all know what you're talking about. You haven't lived.
Marisha: Those things are death traps, man. They're the best.
Laura: And when they're not wet enough.
Matt: So you guys all emerge outside of this pool now. You take a moment to look around as there is no light source in this room either. Those with darkvision, you look around and you see what appears to be a smooth, marble stone floor, very intricately carved, with four pillars surrounding the exit of the pool that you guys came out of. You can see on each of these pillars, facing inward, or not inward, sorry, facing outward of these pillars, what looks to be these stone lion heads. They each face outward. The chamber is also circular, but much larger, it's actually 60 feet across, from the 30 feet of the first chamber you came to.
Liam: Right where we are, I'm going to take my Flametongue dagger and go in a circle and detect traps. Detect some traps.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18, okay. As you glance around with the dagger, and now that you have light as opposed to the darkvision that was before, you can see now. The room is a very deep blue cobalt marble, and the edges of each of these intricately carved pillars, where the base hits the rest of the structure, and along the walls you can see what looks like gold and platinum filigree and trim. It's a very beautifully, very elegantly built room. You look around the walls. They themselves are smooth with, once again, no door, no exit, however, you look around the outside of the pool that you came out of, and there is a three-foot-wide gold loop around it, almost like there's a big circular gold plate that surrounds the pool, and inside it is carved a language that you can't understand. You recognize it again as Celestial.
Taliesin: Oh dear.
Marisha: What does it say?
Taliesin: Dagger again?
Matt: All right, this one translates to  "Betwixt the chaos, our order reigns, the ones who made us, refined the planes. As ages die--"
Marisha: Hang on. "The ones who made us--"
Matt: "Refined the planes. As ages die, their time an ember, the four endure, the four remember."
Sam: Aren't there four dragons?
Travis: That can't be what this is about.
Sam: Why not?
Marisha: Because we killed one of them.
Laura: It could be four sphinxes.
Taliesin: There's four lion heads in the room.
Matt: As you look up as well, as you glance at more of the scenery, and you put the dagger up, right above where the pool is, there is a beautiful circular mural, the size of the room itself, 60 feet across from end to end.
Laura: How high is the ceiling?
Matt: The ceiling is 40 feet tall.
Liam: If it's in Celestial and it says, "those who made us," I highly doubt that the dragons are the ones that made the architects of this structure.
Marisha: If you recall, there were also five dragons and we killed one of them already.
Laura: Yeah, it's four sphinxes.
Sam: Four somethings in the room.
Matt: Glancing up across the mural, this beautifully painted image shows flames twisting and writhing in an arced pattern that then twist into broken rock and soil and earth and mountains that then break once again, sinking into an angry ocean, and that ocean then begins to rise into clouds into the sky, those clouds then dissipating and turning into raw flame and continuing the loop.
Marisha: It's the water cycle.
Sam: Elements.
Matt: In the center of this loop, there is a single dark hole in the ceiling.
Laura: I'm flying, so I'm up near it. Can I investigate it?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: Careful, please?
Laura: I'm not poking my head into it, I want to get a closer look.
Travis: That's what she said last time.
Matt: Scanlan, make an intelligence check.
Laura: Investigation or perception? You said perception?
Matt: What are you looking for?
Laura: I just want to get a closer look at the circle.
Matt: Make it perception. I'll say sure, why not.
Laura: 19?
Matt: Okay, glancing at the circle, I mean, it has a similar small gold band around the outside of it, but this mural is built around this central hole. It's about three feet across, it's not very big, and it goes straight up into darkness.
Laura: It said in the previous room, "the sky is a window." Does that pertain to this?
Taliesin: It might.
Marisha: It could. It said, "the water a door."
Laura: Which we came through.
Marisha: Wait, and the hole is right above the water, correct?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: It lines up. It lines up.
Taliesin: Vax, double-check the gold floor, I'm not--
Laura: Are there any runes on the gold around that circle on the ceiling?
Matt: Looking around the gold itself, no, but you're looking at the actual mural itself this close up, there is a texture to the painting itself, and you can see embedded within elements of the actual brushwork and where the flames meet the rock, you can see hidden lines. With what appear to be very very faint runes.
Laura: Is it the same language that was around the--
Matt: It's a language you don't understand. This is not a spoken language. What languages do you know?
Laura: Abyssal, Draconic, Elvish--
Matt: These are rooted in Draconic. Very ancient, this is the basis of what most arcane runes are created from, as Draconic is the base root of arcane writing. None of them spell anything you understand with your knowledge of Draconic, however that is the base root of this writing, as ancient as it is.
Liam: Pike? Does this mean anything to you?
Sam: By the way, Matt, I rolled my second natural one of the night for my intelligence check.
Matt: Okay. You have no idea what this is about, yeah.
Sam: I'm trying to get water out of my ear.
Matt: Pike's looking up and says, "This is beyond me, this is very old."
Marisha: Does this harken back to anything that we remember about the telling of the Spark, or the Second Spark?
Matt: You know, I'm going to make a religion check with her. Not bad. She goes, "Best I can gather, these represent the elemental chaos, and the center is the prime, our world, that was crafted out of that chaos when the gods came, just like we were told at the Platinum Sanctuary. That's what you told me you found there."
Marisha: All of the elemental realms overlap, which create our realm. Which is why there's gateways.
Travis: Can I walk over to one of the pillars?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Is it covered with anything?
Matt: They're all the same, and they all have that giant gold stone lion head facing outward from each of the pillars.
Travis: Is there writing or anything fancy on the pillar?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: I grab the Hunk of Quall and I float it up to the ceiling.
Marisha: I gave Vex the Hunk of Quall.
Travis: Hey! 15 with a minus two.
Matt: Nothing really catches your attention.
Travis: Can I knock on it?
Matt: Solid. Cobalt marble.
Taliesin: The lion heads. Do they have open mouths or closed mouths?
Matt: The mouths are closed. You take the Quall--
Laura: I take the Hunk up to the ceiling.
Matt: All right. What are you doing with it?
Laura: How did you make this work, Keyleth?
Marisha: Just hold it out like you're searching for a signal.
Matt: Okay, you hold it up, and you see the bauble glows ever so faintly, and whenever you drift it over the mural, all the runes that are within a foot of it slightly glow as it passes over them, almost like a blacklight. It reveals them ever so faintly.
Laura: Does that mean these are magic? I can't remember what this thing does.
Marisha: Yeah, it means that there's magical essence, it finds magic.
Taliesin: I'm going to take some of the water from the pool, and I'm going to bring it to one of the columns and dash it on the column and see what happens.
Matt: Okay. You take the water--
Taliesin: On the, yeah, the water column.
Matt: You throw it on the column that matches the water overhead. You feel this slight grinding shift of stone.
Laura: Wind blows! Fire burns!
Taliesin: Really? Really? We had to bring it there? Really?
Matt: You glance around and the lion's mouth has opened.
Marisha: Good call, Percy!
Sam: Wait, what are the other elements? Fire, air?
Laura: Yeah, I go over to one of the other pillars and blow on it, the one under the air part.
Matt: Same crumbling sound of stone and the mouth of the lion is now open.
Travis: Ooh, ooh, fire, fire!
Liam: I use the Flametongue dagger.
Matt: As you brush it across the pillar, once again, the lion mouth opens on the outside of the pillar.
Laura: How do we do earth?
Sam: She's an earth elemental, or she can do earthy things.
Marisha: Well, I Druidcraft some earth and start wrapping it around the pillar.
Matt: Okay. You create this little burst of soil, this little knob of wet mud and clay, and you circle it, smear across the side of the pillar. The fourth mouth opens. There's a low rumble. Suddenly each mouth of the lion begins to pour a constant cavalcade of sand. The pool immediately fills up, you guys noticing, this room, as wide as it is, across the way other holes have opened up in the side and sand is pouring in.
Laura: Oh shit. I fly up into the hole in the ceiling--
Travis: Oh! A fucking hourglass? (yelling)
Laura: I fly up into the hole. I drop the endless rope down from the hole as I'm flying it up so there's a rope in the middle of the room; so that everybody can go for, I'm flying up--
Sam: If the sand fills up, we can ride the sand up to the hole.
Matt: So you ride up through the top, you go up about 60 feet to the very top before you get there. You have to take a second to go ahead and rummage and find the rope. The rope is on you at all times?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Not in the Bag of Holding?
Laura: No, it's on my cloak. Rope of Infinite Twine.
Matt: Right, it's a robe. It's--
Travis: It's a robe, it's not a rope. It's from the inside of a robe or jacket.
Matt: A pocket on the inside of the robe.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: So. You would have to get that from Grog first, it was probably in the Bag of Holding.
Laura: Fuck! All right, fine, I fly back down-- Gimme gimme gimme the rope.
Travis: I give it.
Matt: Okay, at this point the sand has now come up to your knees, waist area, and you're having to climb out and get on top.
Liam: Scanlan, grab your horn, call out, say that Osysa sent us.
Laura: I tell him to hold on to one end as I fly up.
Liam: Don't you have a cone?
Matt: The weight of both of you across it, especially with your weight, the broom (pff).
Laura: I let go, the rope should be coming out of the robe.
Matt: Right, okay. I thought you were trying to lift him up with you.
Laura: No no no, I'm trying to let the rope out as I'm flying up.
Matt: Okay. You pull up and you come off the top again into this chamber that leads into it. You can see with what your vision is a tunnel that leads ahead to a set of double metal doors.
Laura: Is there anything to tie rope off onto?
Matt: No.
Laura: What about the doors? Are there handles?
Matt: From what you can look over there, no. They are solid metal.
Laura: Shit.
Liam: Scanlan, can I borrow your horn? Your cone?
Sam: Yes, I can yell.
Matt: At this point, about half the room is filled now.
Taliesin: Okay.
Liam: I grab Scanlan's horn. Osysa sent us, can you hear us?
Matt: You hear that voice echo up through.
Marisha: Gather close next to me, who's close nearby? I do a Wall of Stone as a pillar and pillar us up towards the hole.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Elevator time.
Matt: It is a three-foot-wide hole. You'll be able to fit one person through there.
Marisha: Can I at least rise us up to where we're close and we can get there?
Matt: Okay, yeah, so.
Marisha: Where we're up and out.
Matt: So you get up out of the sand, now you guys have been climbing up best you can, but as the nature of sand you're still pulling in, as it's pouring in now, you see now, parts of the ceiling are starting to open.
Laura: Keyleth! Do you have the Immovable Rod?
Marisha: I do have the Immovable Rod.
Laura: I fly down and I grab the Immovable Rod.
Marisha: Here, catch, yeah, take it!
Matt: Okay, you grab the rod. You fly up, you take the rod and you set it in place there.
Laura: Tie the rope onto it.
Matt: Tie the rope onto it. All right. At this point now the sand's pushed up. You guys are on the last ten feet before it hits the ceiling.
Laura: Climb it, climb it.
Taliesin: Climbing, climbing the rope, climbing the rope.
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to go and turn into a bird.
Laura: Can I fly back down and grab Scanlan?
Sam: I'm okay.
Laura: Well I go down and I grab Pike then and I go up on the broom.
Matt: Okay. Pike goes, "Thank you!" You grab her and she holds onto the edge of the broom and you guys make it up that way. No, since the hole is just small enough where you pretty much have to go through single-file, so nobody else can climb while you're doing that. You guys go through, who's coming up first?
Marisha: I'm flying.
Matt: You fly up after them. Who's going up first?
Taliesin: I'll go up next.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Taliesin: Athletics or acrobatics?
Matt: This would be athletics, because you're climbing a rope, a tiny--
Sam: The hole, is it triangular?
Matt: No, it's circular.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19, okay. Making your way up. It's a long pull.
Taliesin: I'm going to Batman.
Matt: All right. Who's up next?
Liam: I'd like to use acrobatics to ignore the rope and use the sides of this little tunnel to do that going up.
Matt: Okay, okay, go ahead and do that.
Liam: That is 25.
Matt: 25, okay, that keeps you going. So you guys get up a third of the way, who's after you?
Sam: I guess I'm climbing the rope. There's a rope, yes? Climbing that rope.
Matt: Yep. Make an athletics check.
Sam: Okay. 17.
Matt: 17, okay. You guys are all making it up, you get about a third of the way up, I need the three of you to make your checks again, as it is a very tight space and it's a very, very heavy pull up. You're just like--
Liam: 25 again.
Matt: 25 again. Awesome.
Sam: 13.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: 23. You guys make it up two-thirds of the pathway, now. You can see now the sand has reached the bottom, and at this point, you guys who made it up to the top, you look up as you notice part of the stonework above goes (fwsh) and sand begins to now fall directly on top of you guys, pushing past you. I need you guys to make one more check, with disadvantage because of the sand, because that was what the time limit was going to do.
Marisha: It's gone, it's gone!
Matt: As soon as the timer went out, that was when the top one went boom, and capped off the top.
Sam: This is an athletics check?
Matt: This is athletics, yeah.
Travis: No, not 27, 24.
Matt: 24. Right, this is you coming up from the bottom. So you make it up a third of the way now. What'd you roll with dis--?
Sam: 17.
Matt: 17 with disadvantage?
Taliesin: 13.
Liam: 25 acrobatics.
Matt: 25. You actually have to climb over Percy to get past, because Percy's being held up from the sand that is coming down. Grog, it's starting to catch up to you. You, I need Vax and Scanlan, you guys make it to the top and pull your weight out of the sand that's now pouring down in that tunnel.
Sam: The tunnel on top?
Matt: The top of the tunnel, yeah, you guys emerge from it and you're now inside a chamber along with Vex and Keyleth.
Marisha: So the only people that are left are Percy and Grog?
Matt: Percy and Grog.
Sam: Pike?
Matt: Pike was brought up by Vex.
Travis: Second roll was 11, 19 total.
Matt: 19 total?
Liam: I have a regular 50-foot rope and I'm tying a loop and I'm going to throw it down towards Grog and try to get it down so he can hold onto it and help pull while he does what he's doing.
Marisha: Can I cantrip a Gust against the sand to try and blow some of it?
Matt: It's a lot of sand, you might be able to help a little bit with your cantrip, it's more of a puff of wind than a strong force, and it's a lot of sand falling. It's not going to help tremendously on this circumstance, unfortunately, as a cantrip.
Laura: Can I use Pike's shield and try to direct it to where some of it isn't coming--?
Matt: Sure, go ahead and make a strength check.
Laura: Oh, maybe Pike should do it, because she's way stronger than me!
Matt: Okay. Pike's going to step forward.
Laura: She's got 19 strength now!
Sam: Don't do this, Pike, don't do this.
Matt: "I have to do it." She steps forward and puts her shield out. All right. She manages to direct some of the flow, which begins to spray onto the outside of the room, begins to fill up one side, however that does give a round of no disadvantage to Grog and Percy. Roll again.
Travis: Except I'm exhausted, right? So I have disadvantage anyway.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Taliesin: 17.
Travis: 21.
Matt: You manage to make it up the rest of the way. The rope, Percy comes out. Pull him up onto the side. Pike, unfortunately, it's too much and loses it. The sand comes rushing down on top of you. What'd you roll?
Travis: 21.
Liam: I grab Grog by the beard and pull.
Matt: He's almost to the top, because you made one check, that's your second check now. Need you to make one more check now as the sand's pouring down, it's now come up to you and it's starting to grab the lower part of your legs, and you're starting to feel yourself being buried.
Liam: I'm pulling on his beard, can I cancel his disadvantage?
Matt: The rope that came down-- Roll a perception check, Grog. With disadvantage. What did you roll?
Travis: Perception is four, but I rolled a 24 on my fourth--
Matt: With disadvantage?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Nice! So you don't even see the rope that Vax dropped. It keeps in the sand. But you, grabbing onto the one that's already up there, you hand-over-hand pull up. You guys watch as the sand eventually stops, and fills the entirety of the tunnel and stops. And then (thud, slam) Grog pulls himself outside, manages to brush the sand off, it's all in his beard.
Marisha: Grog!
Travis: How about a short rest? (laughter)
Travis: Anyone feel like a nap? Fucking hell.
Liam: I start shaking out his beard and getting all the crap out.
Travis: Yeah, thank you.
Liam: And it's like, fwang!
Marisha: I cantrip Gust, brush him off.
Laura: I thought we were doing what we were supposed to do down there.
Sam: I think we did do what we were supposed to do.
Laura: Jeez, it would've been better if we would've just gone up the hole.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Fuck, I've never rolled that well in my life.
Matt: That was the time to do it, man. So you guys now see there is a long stone brick hallway before you. It's solid behind you, with a little bit of sand that's now coasted from the corner after Pike had diverted it briefly. Beyond the way, about 30 feet ahead of you, you see two metallic doors that are closed.
Liam: Traps, I'm looking for traps.
Matt: Investigation check.
Liam: Yeah, that's good. That is a 27.
Matt: You take a moment, scanning the floor as you approach, coming up to the actual doors, you take a minute to look them over. They are not locked, nor are they trapped.
Marisha: I never trust that. That's never been good.
Liam: I'm going stealth.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 30 for stealth.
Marisha: What did that riddle say? Something about a name. A name must be earned?
Sam: We're in a room with two doors? Is that it?
Matt: Correct, a hallway with two doors.
Laura: A name is earned. Yes.
Marisha: So maybe this is us earning our name.
Laura: Or his name.
Travis: Wait, so we went through water, we went through sand.
Laura: Now there's fire.
Marisha: And wind.
Sam: We haven't gone through fire or wind yet.
Laura: That was really smart, Grog.
Liam: Deathwalker's Ward, I'll have resistance to fire.
Matt: Okay, that would take a short rest to go ahead and set that.
Travis: I'm okay with that.
Liam: Let's sit and let Grog catch a breath, shall we?
Matt: Okay. You taking a short rest or no? Up to you.
Travis: Yeah, I'll take it.
Laura: Does it cure exhaustion if he takes a short rest?
Matt: No, long rest cures exhaustion.
Travis: Oh, fuck that shit, I'm rolling through.
Matt: (laughs) All right, you guys take a short rest, you take a breather here, if you need to use any hit dice, now you can. All right, so. Finish the short rest, you've reset your armor to fire resistance.
Marisha: Is there any runes or anything around in this room that look like they would indicate--
Matt: In the short rest, in the time you've taken, while there were no traps in the door, you guys did notice that there is a very, very faint symbol in the metal. Very large, so at first it just seemed like it was part of the door's design, but as you step back and rest, you glance over at the door, Keyleth, looking at it from this distance, you can see the symbol--
Taliesin: Ooh, he's got paper.
Matt: --like this. This is the symbol of Ioun. This is the ancient original symbol of Ioun. This is what is a relief in each of the doors, ever so faintly, where only at a distance would you be able to really see it.
Sam: Is it the exact same in both doors?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Not a mirror image, not one blue one green?
Matt: No, it is the exact same.
Sam: Okay. Should we open a door?
Marisha: Well, do you want to bust out those Ioun stones you have?
Sam: Maybe there's a clue in here.
Marisha: You also have your Ioun stones.
Sam: Yeah, but what's that going to do?
Travis: In the walls and in the floors and in the ceiling, is it just the same marble and stone, are there any porous openings or--?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: What was that second line? "Knowledge dost billow--"
Sam: "All realms are the shore. The sky is a window, the water a door."
Travis: 16.
Matt: Okay. Looking about, the stonework is pretty consistent here. It's old, but unlike the weathered entrance, a lot of this has not seen the elements since it's fairly buried, and even at its seemingly ancient time that it's been here, it doesn't appear to be worn, looks fairly fresh. You don't see any weaknesses, you don't see missing stones.
Travis: It's stone, though, right?
Matt: It is stone, yes.
Travis: Like marble, or?
Matt: No, actually, this is more old, classic granite or other deep-earth stones that are used for various forms of construction. Doesn't have any special properties that you can recognize.
Taliesin: Well, if no one else is going to, I think it'll be funny.
Liam: Take 20 paces back.
Sam: And do what?
Liam: And wait for me to open the door and look in.
Taliesin: Well, why don't I open the door and look in?
Liam: All right. I'm a little better at being invisible, but go for it.
Sam: Which door?
Taliesin: Both of them.
Matt: Both doors (creak) open. You look into what appears to be a, from what you can see, because there is a very, very faint bit of light emanating from his dagger, but beyond that it is pitch darkness. Percy is the one who cannot see.
Travis: What do you see, Percy?
Taliesin: I see a door that I have conquered. (laughter)
Travis: That was good.
Liam: It was great. Do I need to make another stealth check at this point?
Matt: Nah, it maintains.
Liam: All right, so I'm going to-- Just stay back, there's no point in all of us getting with something. And I move 20 feet ahead of everybody.
Matt: You move 20 feet ahead. You enter the room and you can see this chamber is square in size, but it is divided, it seems to be in three halls. There's a path to the right, a path to the left, and a path ahead of you. You can't quite see all the way past, the hallway continues to the very edge of your visual range once you enter the chamber. However, what you can see is to the right and left of you parts of the wall have collapsed, like there's piles of rubbles and stone and earth. Make a perception check at this point.
Laura: I'm peeking through the door at this point.
Matt: Okay, she does as well.
Liam: Going to use my second Luck today because I rolled a one. That's better. Perception, you said? 22.
Matt: Looking to the edge of the two pathways you can see, there appears to be a little bit of a shimmer or bit of movement, like light silk, almost like threads shifting, entwined, it looks almost like a large, very, very faint web that is draped over one wall on the right and matching on the left side.
Liam: Does it remind me of anything I've seen in my dreams?
Matt: I mean, other than the idea of a glimmering thread, maybe, but it isn't glowing, it's not emanating light, and it's very thin, very wispy. And there are a few of them that you can see before the rest of your perspective on the two walls that break it into three passageways.
Liam: I don't hear any eight-legged friends around?
Matt: You don't see any currently at this position. Ahead of you, in the central chamber, you do see what looks to be a small pit, like a divot. Almost like a cauldron, about ten feet across. Similar in size and circular structure as the first water pool you guys dove into, except for it comes to a convex end with nothing visible in it. There's like stones built around the outside of it.
Liam: I could be grasping at straws, but I'm getting a bit of an arachnid vibe in here. I'm not sure. There's three passages, there's webbing of some kind to the left and to the right, and some sort of divot or bowl on the ground. I think you can all come in. Quietly.
Laura: I walk up next to him. Oh yeah, I see what you're talking about. Yeah.
Marisha: Upon hearing this, Keyleth drops to her knees and does a Locate Creature. Do I sense any spiders?
Matt: You actually do not sense any spiders.
Marisha: I think we're good on spiders.
Taliesin: This thread is silk, isn't it? It's actual material. I'm not going to touch it. Conscious of the creation of air currents, I'm going to gingerly put on my mask so that my breath does not move things, and examine.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check.
Laura: Smart. While he's doing that, I want to use Primeval Awareness to sense celestials.
Matt: And that is one of the entities that you can check with that? Okay. What'd you roll, Taliesin?
Taliesin: I rolled a two. So my investigation is five. Which is how old I'm turning. (laughter)
Matt: It is a thread and there are multiple-- as you get closer, you can see there are many threads that are partway through this 15, 20-foot wide hallway on the far right that you've gone to and inspected. This network of threads appear to be attaching at the halfway point and then draped against the wall, what looks like a spiderweb made of this thread all converges in the center. That's the best you can make of it. You do not sense any celestials.
Travis: The hell's a celestial?
Matt: But do mark off your spell slot for that use.
Laura: That's not a spell slot, it's just my-- Oh! Expend one ranger spell slot! I have never, ever done that.
Matt: I assumed you were keeping track of that.
Laura: I have never even looked at that bold--
Matt: Well, going forward--
Travis: It is in bold print.
Laura: Wow. I am sorry about that, Matt.
Matt: That's okay.
Sam: Is there any way to cross the room without touching the web?
Matt: Yeah. Essentially, it's a 15, 20-foot wide thing, the web only starts about partway and encompasses the side of it.
Marisha: And is there anything behind the webs? Just rubble?
Matt: Behind the webs, the hallway continues and then ends and then continues right. It's almost like it's a square room that has walls here that split it into three different passages and they all converge again on the opposite side.
Laura: Can we see all the way to the end?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: It's very mini-golf.
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16? You notice at the end of the two hallways on the sides, beyond the spiderweb in the corner, there are two small five, six-foot-wide pools of water similar to the ones you dove into that are lined with stones and a little bit of gold trim similar to what you guys saw in the previous room.
Laura: Those doorways?
Matt: So you have the rubble's on the side, you have the spiderwebs, you have the pools at the end there, and you have the empty cauldron in the center piece, but you cannot see, unless you move further forward, you cannot see beyond where those hallways converge on the opposite side.
Travis: Is it just me, or does that one in the middle look like a fire pit?
Marisha: I agree. I think this looks like a convergence-of-the-elements type of a room.
Travis: We have some boar in the frozen bag.
Sam: You want to start cooking here?
Marisha: I can light a fire in that pit.
Laura: Is it far away? You can set my arrow on fire and send it down.
Matt: Nah. It's 25 feet from the doors you guys entered in
Laura: Oh. Just don't want to walk down there.
Travis: The last time we did that, shit went down.
Laura: Let's get in the doorway and then if something happens we shut the doors.
Travis: Well, can we walk over to the cauldron first and see what's above it?
Laura: If you want to walk in.
Matt: Vax. Okay, as you walk up, make a perception check.
Liam: 23.
Matt: As they're having this conversation, looking about and floating back, I know your passive as well, but even mid-conversation with him, as you kept an eye out, you see too that to the front of each of these walls that bisects the room, what you thought was just a wall, now as you've had time to study it in quiet as everybody else has been talking during these experiments-- Scanlan, you probably would've noticed this too-- the wall is, the separator's actually a giant obelisk on each side, just like the one that you saw in the Frostweald on the way in that the basilisks were around. You see they're much newer, they're not as weathered by the ages, and they're these two markers with the symbol of Ioun carved into them.
Liam: Shorthalt, come here.
Sam: Oi? Oi, yes.
Liam: Look at this thing. Look there and there. These are like the--
Sam: It's like the one that we saw before.
Liam: Yeah, do you still have the doohickus?
Sam: Of course I have my doohickus.
Liam: Do you want us to shove it in the hole?
Sam: You realize that I was born to shove things in holes.
Liam: That's why I called you over, man.
Sam: All right, so which one?
Liam: Eenie, meenie, miney, mo. Catch a druid by the toe. If she hollers, let her go, eenie, meenie, miney--
Marisha: You know, we've always found that very offensive. I just want to say that.
Sam: I'll choose the right one and I'll stick my Ioun stone in it.
Matt: Okay, looking at the base of it, you see there is the same triangular symbol there. You place the Ioun stone into the recess in the obelisk. As you do, it glows faintly, the obelisk itself tends to give off the same teal, greenish-blue glow, the other one also does the same. At which point the darkness across the room is immediately dissipated as two previously unseen braziers across the way burst into flame, lighting the opposite side of the room. You can see what looks to be a series of heavy steps that lead up to a higher platform on the opposite side of the room. You can see two pillars at the edge on the very top of this raised platform that meet the ceiling.
Sam: Well, let's go up there and check it out.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Travis: I like it. You want a hand?
Liam: I push Scanlan a bit up ahead of me.
Marisha: So this is going over the firepit, past the wispy--
Matt: Yeah, there's all the stuff on the sides and the central room has that pit.
Laura: Hold your breath as you pass the wispy wisps, I don't trust them.
Liam: Get that silver tongue of yours ready, all right?
Sam: I don't think anything's going to want to talk to us down here.
Travis: Can we look at the ground for (laughs) for traps as we're walking? Any squares that might move?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Yup. Nine.
Matt: Nothing catches your attention.
Travis: No, we're good.
Liam: Would you like me to do that?
Matt: Are you guys all moving in the different ways, the same way? Which way are you taking?
Sam: If we go to the right or the left, we have to cross these webs? Or no?
Matt: You can move around the web on that, it only covers half the path, you still have about seven to ten feet of clearance between where the web starts and the wall.
Laura: Just open with a brazier at the end.
Matt: Mm-hmm.
Sam: Why don't we each take a direction?
Marisha: Yeah, I'll take the left.
Laura: I'll take the middle.
Taliesin: I'll take the right.
Matt: Okay. You guys all quietly move forward, stepping through these passages, stepping around, you can see, like I said, the crumbled walls in the far corner, you can see the webbing there, there are the small pools at the far end corners before they converge again into the central chamber where that giant platform is.
Taliesin: I have my gun in my hand, by the way. And my mask on.
Sam: Wait, I could just bamf over to the other side. Should I just do that?
Laura: Maybe you should do that.
Matt: You guys are partway across now. Are you stopping?
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: I'm going to continue not disturbing the air as best I can.
Marisha: Yeah, we're moving very slowly, not disturbing the air.
Matt: Okay, you guys keep walking carefully. Scanlan, are you doing anything?
Sam: Yeah, I'll Dimension Door to the platform on the other side.
Matt: Okay. You appear on the opposite side and you look around. What you didn't see from the shadow that was being cast past the braziers, to the right of you, Scanlan, you see a large form that is there, as a pile, a crumpled pile on the top of this platform. What catches your eyes, and you guys see this too as you begin to walk up as Scanlan appears and glances over, as you get closer you can see there is what looks to be a cold, blue marble that is right there, and you see it being turned and held by what looks to be a very faintly lit giant paw. You can see two eyes that glance up, and glance over at Scanlan amongst the shadows, the same color as that blue marble. As it glances at Scanlan, and it is massive in comparison to your tiny gnomish frame, the marble is then tucked deep into what looks like hair of some kind before it disappears, the eyes still glowing the blue color. Suddenly the form begins to move as two giant arms (impacts), and a voice comes billowing out of this entity. "I have watched you come." The creature now stands on all fours. A good 15, 20 feet taller than you, Scanlan. A body similar and lionlike to Osysa's, only thicker and rippling with muscle beneath the fur. The face is masculine and human-like, cheeks adorned with ceremonial marks, head wreathed in a thick mane of red-brown hair. Two enormous feathered wings stretch out from its back, with a giant whoosh, a whoosh of wind that tends to cause the braziers to shift in place. And it looks at you for a second, expectantly, then to the rest of the others.
Sam: Hello. Osysa sent us.
Matt: It mounts itself there, turns so it's facing both you and the rest of you as you all approach. "You, you seek power, glory, retribution. I know your quarry, and I know your goal. She has told me. I can show you. But all great knowledge should not be given. You must be proven. It must be earned. It must be EARNED." And as his voice roars, the room echoes and you can see wind begin to whip all around you. Glancing over your shoulder, you guys can see now the empty pit in the center of the hall behind you is now whipping into a whirlwind and what appears to be a small centralized cyclone that's now rising up, meeting the ceiling, staying stationary in place, arcing there. The braziers flame up even brighter now, the flames, you can feel the heat even from your distance at this point. You can see now the sphinx is baring its gleaming white teeth there at the top. "What. Is. My. Name?"
Sam: Fuck.
Matt: Roll initiative.
Marisha: We have no fucking clue!
Laura: Oh my god!
Taliesin: Okay, that just happened.
Laura: His name, what is his name?
Taliesin: I'm back, baby.
Marisha: The golden snitch lives!
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: I have the worst initiative rolls all the time except for earlier today.
Matt: All righty. So. Initiative roll. Ooh. Okay. All righty. So. 25 to 20.
Liam: 24.
Taliesin: 30.
Matt: (laughs) Damn.
Laura: Jeez Louise.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Any ideas?
Taliesin: Very, I, yes? Maybe? I don't know?
Matt: 20 to 15?
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19.
Sam: 17.
Matt: All right.
Laura: That map is awesome.
Travis: All the elements are there.
Liam: Look at the fire. (laughs)
Matt: Oh yeah, we got flickering braziers, guys.
Sam: Whoa, that's lit, it's lit up! How did you do that?
Matt: Dwarven Forge has cool stuff. Thank you guys.
Travis: Fucking Dwarven Forge, man.
Matt: All right, so that brings us to 15 to ten?
Travis: 14.
Matt: Grog. Anyone else?
Marisha: Seven.
Matt: Oh, and Pike is actually before Grog. All right. Percy, you're up first.
Sam: He hasn't attacked us.
Marisha: What is his name, Percy?
Sam: Atreyu.
Taliesin: I hate you. I'm going to pull back to the water pit to my right. Oh, to my left, sorry. I'm going to pull back to that water pit. I'm going to examine it.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: 21. As you rush over, you look down into the pool. The surface itself is disturbed by the wind that's blowing in this chamber. However, looking into it, below the surface you don't see-- it's darkness, you don't see a continuation, you don't see anything behind it. The water doesn't seem natural.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to scoop some of the water with my mask, pull the mask off, scoop water, and try and toss it at the flame that's right next to me. That's my move.
Matt: Okay. You put the mask in and your hand moves into it. Your hand gets extremely cold suddenly. You don't see it beneath the surface; it almost vanishes below the water. It's really unsettling. You pull it up and the water is there in your mask. You throw it and the water, it evaporates and the flames flicker slightly, but they's too strong and it doesn't seem to have much of an effect on the brazier.
Taliesin: Fascinating. All right. That's my move.
Matt: Yep. That's your move and your action. All right, that ends Percy's turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: How are we supposed to know your name? Is it Osyso?
Matt: Teeth are bared and it's sitting there looking at all of you, waiting.
Liam: I'm going to click my Boots of Haste. Can I use a bonus action to hide and then hold? Any stuff?
Matt: You could, yeah, you can move and then hold your action to a trigger point if you want to.
Liam: Where am I in there?
Matt: You're right here.
Liam: So I'm going to hide. I'm going to move backward around the corner and hide.
Matt: Around this way?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, you can move there. Go ahead and roll for hide.
Liam: Okay. 25.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And I'm going to hold for the moment he attacks any of my friends.
Matt: Okay, got you. All right, at the end of your turn, the entire-- the wind that's blowing, there's grains of sand that are picked up into it, and you guys feel like there's something out of place, this whole area, like this sudden drift. You feel like the air in your lungs gets butterflies for a second and something, even though this place is stationary, it's almost like the whole place shifts. I need everybody to make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Shit.
Travis: Fuck.
Taliesin: Damn, I'm back.
Marisha: Nice.
Taliesin: 26.
Sam: Four.
Marisha: Saving throw, correct?
Matt: Yes, constitution saving throw.
Marisha: 23. 22.
Liam: 17.
Travis: With disadvantage, 13.
Matt: Okay. While most of you guys manage to withstand it, Scanlan and Grog and Vex, the wind feels like it's knocked out of you, and like you were suddenly stretched thin and you can't understand it. You glance-- right now, it's hard to really tell. Scanlan lurches forward for a second. Grog and Vex, you're right next to each other, you both glance at each other and you can see, it's like Grog's skin has aged suddenly. His-- around his eyes it's grown a little more sunken, his muscles have sagged slightly. He looks, not ancient by any means, but it looks like he's seen about another 15 to 20 years of travels.
Taliesin: Oh shit.
Travis: What does that mean?
Sam: Me too?
Matt: You also have, although due to your gnome lineage it has less of an effect, and no one's noticed it at this distance, but if anyone gets a quick glance, you'll see a few grey hairs starting to sprout on the side of Scanlan's head.
Sam: I get rid of those.
Matt: All right. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh. Do I feel old?
Matt: You feel like you've been pulled through something, but it doesn't have a mighty effect, although, Grog, glancing at Vex you can see there is definitely a little bit more of a weathered look to her, crow's nests forming, deep-seated frown lines.
Laura: Oh, jeez. I shout out-- I run towards the other water portal.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And I shout out, Pike, do you know the names of the four ancient gods? Is your name four? That's stupid.
Matt: There doesn't seem to be a reaction. Pike goes, "No, I mean, the gods that were at the beginning, there's--"
Laura: Yeah?
Matt: "There was Pelor and Melora and, I mean, they're the ones who cast away the elements, the chaos that this realm was first. I don't know!" And she seems-- she's bungled and unable to really formulate what you're asking.
Laura: I wouldn't have any religion, anything to base that off of?
Matt: Make a religion check if you want to.
Laura: Wow. Wow. Two! That's four ones in a night.
Matt: Wow. Wow. It's the reverse Percy tonight.
Laura: I've been cursed.
Matt: You try and think back to the conversation you had with Highbearer Vord in the Platinum Sanctuary, and your mind's a blank. You can't recall any of that conversation.
Laura: I have an advantage on anything having to do with dragons.
Matt: It has nothing to do with dragons.
Laura: Well, I was just checking.
Matt: This is the creation myth of all of existence. However, you still have your action if you want to do something. You're by the pool, it's right to your right, and there's this sphinx now rearing--
Laura: I saw Percy dip his hand into the water, so I do the same thing to see what it does.
Matt: You what? You put your--
Laura: I put my hand in the water.
Matt: You dip your hand in the water. The hand, once it breaks the surface, it vanishes into darkness below the water. You don't even see, there's no visual on it.
Laura: Does it hurt?
Matt: No, it doesn't hurt, it's cold, it's very cold.
Laura: Pull it back out.
Matt: Pull it back out. Your hand is wet and it drips and you shake it free.
Laura: Can I use a bonus action to try to hide? Is there anywhere to hide? Maybe against a wall or something?
Matt: You move one, two, three, four, five, six. You're not going to be able to get completely out of sight. (laughs) Unless you want to jump in the water.
Taliesin: So there's a whirlwind in the center of the room, there's two piles of rocks, there's two vats of water, there's two torches, and then there's two spiderwebs.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: And the spiderwebs are covering the walls.
Matt: Yeah. All right, so that ends Vex's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I will face the sphinx and say  is your name Ioun?
Matt: The sphinx is still there growling at you. "She is beyond me... What is my name, little scrumptious one?"
Travis: Hit him!
Taliesin: Do you have your earpiece in, by the way?
Sam: Sure, we all do.
Taliesin: Okay. Good to know.
Sam: I mean, I'm not going to attack this thing if it hasn't attacked me yet, so I'm going to, eee.
Travis: There's spiderwebs, there's stones, there's fire, there's water--
Taliesin: Working on it!
Laura: I feel like we're so stupid, we should know this. "The four endure, the four remember."
Sam: Can I hold my attack until a trigger?
Matt: You can if you want to, yeah.
Sam: Or hold my action until a trigger?
Matt: Yeah, what do you want to hold it for?
Sam: If he makes a move towards me physically.
Matt: Okay. Remember, you guys who are holding your action, you can interrupt and release at anything if it doesn't happen, be aware of that. All right, so it now goes to the sphinx's turn.
Travis: Okay, this should be fun. We're all standing around with our thumbs up our asses.
Liam: Yup.
Matt: The sphinx takes a step forward to the edge of the stairway and (roars) gives out this earth-shattering roar that shakes-- a couple of stones and dust that are loosened from the ceiling falls down. I need everybody to make a wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Is this magic?
Matt: Yes, it is.
Liam: Is it charm, by any chance?
Matt: It's not a spell, it is a magical effect.
Sam: Do I get advantage on that?
Matt: What do you get advantage from?
Sam: Advantage versus magic on saves.
Matt: From being a gnome?
Sam: It says, Gnome Cunning, advantage on wisdom, character, intelligence, magic saves. That's what I wrote down, anyway.
Matt: Let me double-check here just to be sure.
Sam: It doesn't really matter, I rolled shit on both, so it's okay. Don't bother.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Against magic, so yeah, you would have advantage.
Liam: And does it have anything to do with charm or sleep?
Matt: Nope.
Liam: Nope, okay. 17.
Matt: 17.
Sam: Seven.
Taliesin: 19.
Marisha: 23.
Laura: 24.
Travis: 11. Disadvantage.
Taliesin: (laughs) You picked the wrong day to stop sniffing glue.
Travis: What the fuck? (laughs) I know. Paint chips.
Taliesin: You made a bad call.
Travis: I made a bad call.
Matt: Grog. Vex, what was it you rolled, again?
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24. And you rolled?
Liam: 17.
Matt: 17. That's right. All right, so. As the roar pierces through the hallway, most of you guys steel yourself. Grog, Scanlan, Pike, and Vax, you feel the sudden reality of how fearful and dangerous this creature is. You stepped into the lair of an ancient, powerful entity and you feel like your very life is at stake. You guys are frightened for one minute.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Frightened means you have disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls while you can see it, and you cannot willingly move closer to the creature. So you have to either move adjacent, like same distance from it, or away. You can make a saving throw every turn to try and resist it. It is now going to stay right where it is. That brings it to Pike's turn. Pike doesn't quite know how to deal with this whole circumstance. She is going to cast--
Taliesin: Text Ashley.
Travis: There's also the obelisks. We got to go start touching the other shit.
Laura: Obelisks were in Elvish.
Marisha: Issylra is a continent, right?
Travis: It was all written in what, in--?
Matt: Pike is going to reach forward to you, Grog. Take a step this way. Pike's going to reach forward and cast Freedom of Movement on you. At fourth level.
Travis: Oh. I was going to rage and shake it, but--
Matt: So for the next hour, you cannot be paralyzed or restrained, you can't have your speed reduced via magical effects. You're still feared, but--
Travis: I can shake that with a rage.
Matt: You can shake that with a rage, yes. But yeah, for the next hour. It's not concentration, either.
Travis: Thank you, Pike.
Matt: She says, "Go get him, Grog."
Travis: You got it, buddy!
Matt: All right. That ends Pike's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I might as well do what Pike says. I'm going to bum-rush the sphinx.
Matt: Straight-up?
Travis: Yup.
Matt: All right. You rush up the stairs.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Matt: With a precariousness of-- we'll say you rush up here for the sake of positioning.
Travis: Sure. Two strikes, straight-up.
Sam: Just going to hit it?
Travis: (laughs) Yeah. I'm not smart, this is all I do. 23?
Matt: 23? That hits.
Travis: His face is awful. Should I roll damage or roll both attacks first?
Matt: It's all against him, roll attacks. You're not going to kill it in one hit.
Travis: No, that's true.
Sam: What if it's a nine-point hit point?
Travis: 24 on the first one.
Matt: 24 damage, all righty.
Travis: Second attack. Holy shit, that's a 28.
Matt: Nice, that hits.
Travis: Something's going to happen to me and it's going to be bad. Six. 11. 23.
Matt: Okay. Makes its first constitution saving throw. Fails its second. So you steal another strength point and the sphinx's strength goes down to that.
Travis: So I'm at 25 now.
Laura: Down to 79 strength.
Matt: You're at 25 now. Okay.
Travis: And I don't go up again until 26. Right? On the evens.
Matt: Right. But 25 is the max for this sword. It says on the weapon, it should be under ability.
Travis: Oh, you're right, yeah.
Matt: All right. So. You run up and swing two heavy swings after going into a rage to resist the fear effect. You grin and bear it, go over and swing twice, hacking into the side of it. Its hide is very strong and there's almost like this weird resistance on the outside of its body, like its very force of existence and personality is keeping the blade from doing as much damage as it should, but you still strike true, slamming into it twice. You pull the strength from it. As you do, a voice in your head goes, "Yesss."
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Matt: At this point, as you look at the blade, the blade now begins to emanate a shadow aura stronger than previously that begins to also form around your upper shoulders, drifting. The blade suddenly extends another foot, the edges of it that were smooth project with a jagged, thorny outside. The blade itself now is longer, thicker, and far more dangerous-looking than it was before. Until your next short rest, all attacks with the sword do an additional 2d6 necrotic damage.
All: Whoa!
Travis: (laughs) Super Saiyan, motherfucker! 2d6 necrotic damage? Okay. And I'll stay there.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And await my punishment.
Matt: All right. At the end of your turn, the sphinx is going to use its three legendary actions.
Liam: Three legendary actions?
Matt: Is going to use three of them to cast a spell out of order. It's going to go ahead and call down a Flame Strike.
Laura: We're all going to die!
Matt: Onto the twins.
Laura: Why?!
Liam: Can I attack him now, while he's casting, because I held my turn?
Matt: You can, actually, yes.
Liam: Okay, so I'm hidden and Grog's next to him, which would normally put me at advantage, but he's got me afraid, which puts me at disadvantage, which means it cancels out and it's one straight roll, right? On the attacks?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Okay. Good. So I'm going to throw-- I'm hasted, I'm going to throw two daggers at him. The first one is, probably hits, where's the freaking page? 23 for the first.
Matt: 23 hits.
Liam: 18 for the second.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Do they both hit or just the first? I'm only doing two.
Matt: What was the second one? It was--
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18 hits.
Liam: Okay, so the first one is seven, the second is seven. And I want to use the rest of my turn to, as I'm hasted, to run around to the back of that obelisk and start reading.
Matt: Over here?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. All right. As you're doing that reaction shot, it calls down the column, hits both of you before you can burst off. All of a sudden, as you look over at your brother, you feel this rising energy before all of a sudden this entire area is (boom) consumed in burning holy divine light. I need both of you guys to make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: I'm going to use evasion.
Matt: Yeah, evasion happens automatically as part of your reaction to that, so yeah.
Liam: Okay.
Laura: 30.
Liam: Dexterity, so 14.
Matt: You rolled a what?
Laura: 30.
Matt: 30 dexterity saving throw?
Liam: No, eff it, I'm going to use my last Luck of the day. Ugh, barely any better. 16.
Matt: 16 for you?
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Matt: Okay. Right, so Vex? You take half damage from this. You take full damage, unfortunately. So that's going to be 21 points of fire and radiant damage to you.
Travis: Is half?
Matt: 21 is the half. You, however, have resistance to fire, Liam.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: So the 22 points of fire damage you would've taken is reduced to 11.
Liam: With evasion, if I fail, I take half damage.
Matt: Right, so yeah, so you would take, so you would take the same, but a quarter because of halving fire damage to take from that.
Liam: So I didn't hear the number because I was reading, what was--?
Travis: 21, so half 21 would be 11.
Matt: Well, radiant damage you're not resistant to, so I'd say it would be 17 points of damage. There you go. You rush out of the flames and find your way around the obelisk. However, you have to wait until your turn before you can take a look at that. All right, now it comes to Keyleth's turn.
Marisha: Okay. I yell out  Issylra!
Matt: It doesn't seem to have any effect.
Marisha: Okay, that might be a continent.
Matt: It is. (laughter)
Matt: It's the continent where Vasselheim is, and--
Marisha: Not his name. And I cast Control Water again and I start pouring the water out of the pools and onto the fire.
Matt: Okay. The water comes out as a column, doesn't appear to be coming to an end, you're not quite sure where it's being drawn from, it's this constant stream, and as it hits the flame (tshhh) but the flames aren't going out. It's all turning to steam and it's filling the room with steam and the more and more it pours into it, the more and more the room is beginning to become obscured and making it hard to see.
Marisha: Okay, well, I stop that.
Matt: Okay. As you do, the streams stop water. The pools are still completely still where you've pulled it out of, seemingly unbothered other than the little bit of wind that's blowing, and have not lessened in their volume at all.
Marisha: Good to know. Can I do some sort of check to see if I would've heard anything about this type of a thing in my druid time, is this like a different plane of existence, what is this shit?
Matt: What, this place you are?
Marisha: Yeah, or would I know of what his name would be from the telling of the Second Spark and any of my elemental knowledge as a druid?
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Ooh, that's good. 19.
Matt: 19. Thinking back about the stories you've heard, which isn't a whole lot necessarily. Are we good on the stream?
Ryan: (off-camera) Yeah, we're good on the stream.
Liam: Had a little flicker.
Matt: We had a little flicker. You recall, go through, poring through all the information that was given to you, you don't know a whole lot about the history element, it isn't a part of the druidic training experience, but based on the discussion with Highbearer Vord, no mention of a sphinx, nothing like that.
Marisha: Fuck. I don't know, you guys!
Matt: I think that's your turn, though. Unless you want to move.
Marisha: No. I'm good.
Matt: Okay. End of your turn, the shimmering webs on each side flash for a second, and stepping out of them, you can see a slightly translucent, not fully physical spider on each side.
Liam: Fey spiders, you son of a-- oh god, I keep hitting that, we got to fix that.
Matt: This spider immediately (skittering) up to Percy. And this one (skittering) up to Vex.
Laura: Ah, c'mon!
Matt: Versus you, Percy, rolled a one. Completely missed. It goes and reaches out towards you, out of the way. Vex, however, that is a 23.
Laura: That hits me.
Matt: That hits. You go ahead and suffer--
Laura: You go ahead and suffer!
Matt: (laughs) Suffer nine points of psychic damage. The spider, upon biting you, dissipates out of existence. It actually bites you and then its form (shhk) into your head and causes this psychic backlash and feedback in your head. The other spider misses you and remains in existence. Top of the round, Percy, you're up.
Sam: Oh, well if, at the end of the round, have I not gone yet?
Matt: You have not gone yet, do you want to?
Sam: Can I go?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah, I mean, I guess I'll attack at this point.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'll try something that will definitely fail. I will try and fail to put him into the Resilient Sphere. Which I'm sure will fail. (laughs)
Matt: What is the DC on the Resilient Sphere?
Sam: Well, I don't have my stuff with me.
Matt: I believe if it's through the--
Sam: Through the hand cone?
Matt: The hand cone I think is 20 now, isn't it?
Sam: It's 20 now, yeah.
Matt: Okay, so it doesn't make its dexterity saving throw.
Sam: But I have disadvantage on attack, but that doesn't matter.
Matt: Doesn't matter for this one. That is 21. Yep.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So. You attempt to create the sphere around it. As you can see it begins to encase the sphinx, and the sphinx just-- its head, after staring at Grog, goes (growls), and as it roars at you, the sphere that's formed around it shatters and the arcane essence is scattered about the room and vanishes.
Sam: Can I ask him if his name is Earned?
Matt: He sits there glaring at you.
Sam: Okay, that's a stupid question, sorry.
Travis: Maybe say it in Celestial.
Sam: I don't know Celestial!
Laura: Say it in Celestial, Percy.
Matt: All right, so that's Percy's turn now, Percy, what are you doing?
Taliesin: The first thing I'm going to is, I'm going to guess a name, because that's fun.
Matt: Sure.
Taliesin: I'm going to yell, Lux! Whatever that would be in Celestial. First light.
Matt: Okay. You shout out, and the sound of Celestial being spoken has this echo to it, this, Lux, and it fades afterward. It has no immediate effect, the wind seems to swallow it around you from all the noise going around. The sphinx has no interest.
Taliesin: That's fine, I'm going to take a slash at that spider with my sword.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's 19.
Matt: 19 hits.
Taliesin: I don't suppose that there's a keyword dragon in there anywhere?
Matt: A what?
Taliesin: I don't suppose there's a keyword dragon anywhere in that spider's description, but--
Matt: (laughs) No, there isn't.
Taliesin: Pissing in the wind.
Matt: It's okay. It is a magical sword you're attacking with, right?
Taliesin: It is a magical sword I'm attacking with. That's 11 points of slashing damage.
Matt: This spider is scattered into ether.
Taliesin: With my sword out, I'm going to run down the hall and I'm going to take two more slashing attacks at the web.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll.
Taliesin: 17, but really, how hard is it to hit a web?
Matt: It's more about finding the right place to do the proper damage, but that works, go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: That's 13 points of damage.
Matt: Okay. You cut through some of the threads, it limps on one side, but it's still keeping itself aloft.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: All right, that hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Ooh. 15 points of damage.
Matt: 15 points of damage. All right. With that, the second strike, the thread dissipates and turns into smoke and vanishes from existence. None of the threads remain, it vanishes.
Taliesin: Is there anything written on the wall?
Matt: Go ahead and roll an investigation check.
Sam: It says, "That guy's name is Paul."
Marisha: Paul was here.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: Okay, 19. Glancing at the wall behind--
Taliesin: Fucking brain! Knowledge is power. For reals!
Laura: Maybe that's his name. Power.
Matt: It says in Celestial, "Windows and doors."
Laura: The sky. The sky.
Taliesin: Water and sky.
Matt: It says windows and doors.
Taliesin: I say out loud, windows and doors! Water and sky! And that's--
Matt: That's your turn. Percy's over. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm taking a quick look at the obelisk that I'm right in front of, I think it's in Elvish, isn't it?
Matt: The obelisk in front of you? This actually, aside from the symbol of Ioun, there's no writing on it.
Liam: There's nothing on it, nothing to do. I'm going to throw three daggers through the web. Is that the one-- so Percy's over there? I'm going to throw three daggers through the web over there.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Liam: 13. 30. And 17.
Matt: All right, what was it? Sorry, it was?
Liam: 13, 30, and 17.
Matt: All right, the second two hit, so go ahead and roll damage.
Liam: Ten and eight.
Matt: Ten and eight. All right. You throw two and it cuts a few threads and the path of it falls limp but the web stays up.
Liam: And I can't move any closer to the sphinx at this point, right, because of the fear?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: So I'm stuck here, am I?
Matt: Yeah, you can't move any closer to it right now. But you can make a saving throw at the end of your turn to try--
Liam: I will do that. I'd also like to take one step to the right.
Matt: One step to the right? All right.
Liam: This way, yeah. And no, I rolled an eight for wisdom.
Matt: Okay, so you're still in the fear effect. All right. By the way, Grog, go ahead and make a saving throw to resist the effect so it's gone, even though you--
Travis: Oh, at disadvantage?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Which saving throw?
Matt: It's wisdom.
Travis: (laughs) Five.
Matt: All right, you're still under the effect. And Scanlan, actually, roll it again.
Travis: Oh, but I'm raging.
Matt: Right, you resist, I mean, it doesn't affect you but it still persists.
Travis: Got you.
Matt: If you stopped raging then the fear would kick in.
Sam: Is this a saving throw?
Matt: This is wisdom.
Sam: And do I still get advantage or no, because the first time it's cast.
Matt: You would, I'd say, sure.
Sam: 12.
Matt: 12, yeah. The fear still strikes in your heart. All right. Vax, that's the end of your turn. All right. I need everybody in here to go ahead and reroll initiative as the time flux in the room all of a sudden flickers and time seems to shift and move. Everyone reroll initiative.
Marisha: What? Well, that's a better roll.
Sam: Are we time bandits now? Is that what's happening?
Taliesin: Oh my god. His name is the Doctor. (laughter)
Marisha: But Doctor who?
Taliesin: Doctor whom. That's always bothered me. Doctor whom.
Matt: All right, so. 25 to 20.
Sam: 20.
Matt: 20.
Laura: 23.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 22, that's a lie, 22.
Sam: Liar.
Taliesin: Liar!
Matt: Okay. 20 to 15?
Taliesin: 18.
Marisha: 18.
Travis: 17.
Matt: All right, we got Percy, Keyleth, Grog. All right. And then.
Liam: Ocho.
Matt: Ocho? Pike's before you.
Liam: Time slippage, man.
Matt: Yeah man, it sucks. All right. That ends that count. It is now its turn. The time shift actually managed to lose your turn, both you and Scanlan. You guys shifted through the top of the order.
Laura: Wait, but I still rolled a 22.
Matt: I know.
Taliesin: I hate time travel so much.
Travis: It screws a high roll.
Matt: Basically, Scanlan, you can go simultaneously now. You lose your turn.
Sam: That sounds cool.
Matt: I mean, it's time, it's shitty.
Travis: What's the Celestial word for time?
Marisha: I know, we were thinking about that time.
Matt: You know what? It doesn't specify. I'll say go ahead. It starts at the top of the initiative round, so you know what? Vex, your turn, go for it. Go for it. Doesn't specify, I could be a dick about it, but you know.
Laura: I take back my glare.
Matt: It's more fun to not have your turn lost.
Taliesin: There was a time jump so the glare never happened.
Matt: What you got?
Laura: Can I look up at the ceilings and see if there's any portals on the top of the ceiling like there were in the last room?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: 29.
Matt: 29. Nope, solid stone ceiling.
Laura: Is there anything to tie the Robe of Infinite Twine onto?
Matt: I mean, there's the brazier, but it's pretty close to flame and you don't know if rope will survive that.
Laura: Do I still have the Immovable Rod from before?
Matt: Yeah, you retrieved it, yeah.
Laura: Okay, then I put the Immovable Rod, I tie it in, I hold on to the rope, and I jump in the water.
Matt: Okay. You take the rod and you (click) in the middle of the air, you take the rope, tie it around real fast over everything, and the sphinx now looming forward being attacked and flanked by the two of them. You take the rope and jump into the water. There's no splash, you disappear into the water. You guys watch her vanish into the pool.
Marisha: Vex jumped in the water?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Cool.
Liam: The code is "critrole", and you will not have to pay for any kind of shipment in any way, shape, or form. The wood still costs.
Marisha: Also, look how attractive that map is. Dwarven Forge, everybody.
Sam: Oh boy. We'll be making an appearance--
Taliesin: Don't do that. That's weird. Stop that. God, every time you're off camera.
Liam: Travis is flexing his boobies.
Sam: Guys, we're going to die because we can't think of the name Steve.
Taliesin: It'll be fine.
Marisha: Yeah, there's a correlation with blue.
Taliesin: I have theories. I have lots and lots of theories.
Marisha: I have lots of theories, too.
Taliesin: I have lots of theories. There's lots of theories here, we have to be fast enough to try them out.
Sam: Test them out.
Liam: And then time shifts and we're back in.
Taliesin: I can only move so fast through the room.
Matt: Do you pull yourself out?
Laura: Yeah, I pull myself back out.
Matt: Okay, you guys, there's a breathless moment and suddenly Vex comes out from the rope, drenched in water.
Laura: Oh my god.
Sam: What?
Laura: K-A. Other door. But make sure there's a rope.
Sam: K-A? What does that mean?
Laura: Jump in the water. Make sure you can get out.
Sam: What?
Travis: K-A on the door?
Sam: What does that mean? What?
Matt: As you say K-A out loud, the sphinx goes-- there's a glimmer in the eye at you, and it continues on, looking over at Grog and Scanlan.
Sam: You got part of the name? Part of the name.
Marisha: Oh, son of a bitch! All right.
Sam: Which water did you go in?
Laura: The little brazier that I'm next to.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: But don't jump in without a rope.
Marisha: You're on the one on the left. Yeah?
Laura: Yeah. Make sure you can get out.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Well, shit. I want to go diving, but I don't think I'd make it over there. Shit. For now, I'll just-- someone else is going to do the water thing, I assume?
Marisha: I can, I'm close by, I'm close by, I can handle it.
Matt: At the end of your turn, the water that's around you, it's freezing cold and you suffer eight points of cold damage.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: From the process of submerging into it. However, once that damage hits, your body heat manages to recover, and it turns back to normal water temperature, so.
Sam: I'm going to, I will attempt to cast Eyebite on the sphinx.
Matt: Okay. The DC is 20 on that?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: What is the saving throw for that one?
Sam: Wisdom.
Matt: Wisdom. Eyebite it is. That is a 27. Yeah, it resists the Eyebite.
Sam: What a dick. What a dick. Well, I can't do anything else, so I will-- hi. Who's around? Who's about to do something? I'll turn to Vax and inspire him.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Sam: That's it. I'll say, (singing) You are not throwing away your shot, you are not throwing away your shot, you're just like your sister, you're young, brooding and hungry, and you're not throwing away your shot. (laughter)
Matt: That's fantastic. Okay. All right, so. You take your d10 inspiration die. At the end of your turn, it goes to the lair count. Lair count's already happened this turn, so I'm not going to keep that going. However, the sphinx does take its turn. It's going to go ahead and loose a claw attack at both of you. Against Scanlan, that is--
Sam: I'm going to use Cutting Words.
Matt: Okay. All right.
Sam: To get out of it. I'm going to blow my shawm. (high-pitched lip whistle noise) (laughter)
Sam: To distract it.
Matt: Roll a d10. It rolled a 25 to hit, so.
Sam: He's still going to hit me. A d10.
Matt: Yeah, so roll a d10 and that's how much it reduces it by.
Sam: By eight.
Matt: By eight, that brings it to a 17. What's your AC?
Sam: 16.
Matt: So it still hits you. Hits you for 28 points of slashing damage as its giant claw (whoosh) rakes across you. The sheer impact almost throws you off the top of the platform, and you can feel the blood beginning to seep from the wound under your armor. It turns around and rapidly does a full-on claw attack towards you, Grog. That is going to be a 27 to hit.
Travis: Oh yeah.
Matt: You also take 28 points of damage. It is magical damage, however, you don't-- doesn't matter for you, being, it's a resistance against slashing, so you take 14 points of slashing damage from the strike. That's going to end its turn. That brings us to Percy.
Taliesin: Who's that?
Marisha: That's Ashley.
Taliesin: That's Ashley?
Marisha: That's Pike, yeah yeah.
Taliesin: I'm going to yell at Pike, first thing.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Look into the wind, look into the typhoon, tell me what you see!
Matt: "What?" She hears you, yeah.
Taliesin: I'm going to run to the little stone pile, and out of idle curiosity, I'm going to try to shove a bunch of stuff away to see if there's anything in there, look at the stones or anything.
Matt: Okay, so you take your action, you start pulling the stones away. As you rummage through, you pull apart and you begin to see there is-- where there was hard rocks, you're starting to find finer stones, until eventually you find sand. Just like the sand that you encountered in the previous room.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to take a handful, I'm going to grab a bunch of that and--
Matt: Okay, you reach in and as your hands disappear into the sand, there's no resistance once they hit the sand, they vanish into the sand.
Taliesin: I put on my mask and I shove my head in.
Matt: Okay. You shove your head through.
Sam: Whispers.
Marisha: Whispers!
Laura: So many whispers!
Travis: You know what this means, right? Jump in the fire.
Sam: Oh my god. Oh wait, we got to jump into all these things?
Laura: Maybe. I don't know. How long is his name?
Marisha: Yeah, how long is his name?
Sam: Mississippi.
Travis: Rumpelstiltskin.
Marisha: You already did water, I'm wondering if there's anything in the other one, or I might try fire.
Laura: Oh. You're right.
Sam: No, you've got to go for the water.
Travis: The element is going to be a quarter of the letters.
Taliesin: I pull out my head and I yell, J-I.
Laura: J-I.
Sam: K-A-J-I?
Marisha: K-A-J-I.
Laura: Kaiju.
Marisha: K-A-J-I. But it could be any fucking order. Wait, wait, wait! Did anyone take note of the order on the cycle?
Sam: It was a circle.
Liam: It was a circle.
Marisha: Never mind.
Matt: All right, Percy, that's your turn? You going to move?
Taliesin: I burned a whole turn doing that, didn't I?
Matt: Yeah, that's going to be the rest of it. All right, Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. Seeing Vex jump in and seeing Percy stick his head in a wall, I run up to the fire column.
Taliesin: Yeah! Yeah!
Marisha: Right there. And see if there's anything in the fire.
Matt: Percy, you also suffered seven points of damage from the crushing and bludgeoning on your head as it passed through.
Marisha: And I take the fire hand and I stick it, and I light up my fire and I stick it in the fire.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Does anything happen?
Matt: You put your hand in and your hand is still-- it's hot because of the flame that's on it. As you put it in, it is a scorching hot pain.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You take two points of fire damage just from placing it in there.
Marisha: Okay, I pull it out and I go fire elemental.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Travis: Do it, do it.
Taliesin: You're my hero.
Liam: Heat don't hurt.
Marisha: And I stick my head, go into the fire.
Matt: Into the flame?
Marisha: Into the flame! (cheering)
Liam: I think we should stop there. We should not go into the wind.
Sam: Where's the wind one?
Liam: Center.
Sam: Okay.
Travis: Why? Was that sarcastic?
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: (Grog voice) It was lost on me. Your subtle humor is lost on me.
Sam: What else can we plug?
Laura: I don't know.
Sam: Be sure to follow us at @CriticalRole.
Laura: Hey, we're on twitter, you guys! @CriticalRole.
Sam: @CriticalRole is on twitter.
Travis: Don't miss the beginning of the 50th episode.
Marisha: I pull my head out and I go, M-A-L. The letters M-A-L.
Sam: Kajimal. Kajimal. His name's Michael Jackson.
Matt: All right, that's going to be your turn there. At the end of your turn, he's going to go ahead and use a point to do a claw attack against Scanlan again.
Liam: His name is probably Jamal Porter.
Matt: Hm. That's a natural 20.
Travis: Natural 20?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: No worries. I didn't need to live anyway.
Marisha: Against Scanlan? Oh, Jesus Christ.
Matt: You take 38 points of slashing damage as the claw grabs you and slams you against the stone, and you can feel the claw actually pierce part of your throat.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Matt: And as it withdraws, you can feel the blood beginning to pour. It didn't hit anything vital, but it's a serious wound--
Sam: All the vital stuff's below the belt.
Matt: All right. That ends Keyleth's turn. That brings us to Grog. This thing is tearing into Scanlan.
Travis: Yeah. I run over to Scanlan. How jacked-up are you?
Sam: I'm all right.
Travis: Are you?
Sam: Totally fine.
Travis: All right. Then I run down the steps and I jump into the tornado.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. You leap into it.
Laura: Oh no, Grog can't read. (laughter)
Sam: Oh no, that's true!
Matt: Pike looks over and sees you whoosh into the cyclone and vanish.
Travis: (laughs) There's a couple of lines.
Liam: Squiggly lines.
Laura: It's like a--
Liam: Snake shape and a box.
Laura: There's a circle.
Sam: Two sticks and a snake.
Liam: (Grog voice) Six. It said six.
Laura: (Grog voice) Also ale.
Sam: Cake and a rope.
Marisha: Good call.
Laura: Was that O-I?
Taliesin: This is why I'm the smart one.
Marisha: You are. You are.
Taliesin: Arsehole.
Sam: Check out our 50th episode next week, guys, with special guests Vin Diesel--
Taliesin: It's going to be so fleek. Streets ahead.
Matt: Okay, you guys get the idea of what's going on, we're going to now bring this, because now shit's happening. So. Grog, after seeing this, though you cannot say to anyone what you found yet, you, having no tether, are drifting away from the portal and seeing it disappearing slowly away from you. What are you going to do?
Travis: Can I grab my earring and say what I see?
Matt: You grab your earring, you say it. There's no response. You guys hear nothing.
Sam: He's gone.
Matt: And you're about 15 feet away from it now.
Laura: Grog?
Travis: Can I take my Chain of Returning and attach it to Craven Edge and throw it through the doorway that I see?
Matt: You can. Go ahead and roll for an attack.
Laura: What if it hits Pike?
Taliesin: Should've had a breakfast!
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23. Whoosh. You fling it through, and it catches something. You feel it's taut, you start pulling your way in, pulling your way in, pulling your way in. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: It's Pike.
Marisha: It's Pike.
Taliesin: Oh.
Sam: God. It's fine.
Marisha: It's got to be Pike.
Travis: Damage, oh, damage. Sorry, damage. I rolled the wrong thing. Please don't let it be Pike. Nine.
Laura: Pike.
Travis: 14.
Laura: Plus 2d6 necrotic.
Matt: Yep, plus 2d6 necrotic damage.
Travis: 30.
Matt: 30. 30 points of damage. Okay. You pull the chain and you make your way to the portal, you put your hands out, pull through, and as you do, the chain in your hand-- you look and you can see now, grasping onto the edge of the wall, you see Pike, sweat dripping down her face as Craven Edge has embedded itself into her abdomen. She's holding it, and she looks at you with a gritted face and she goes, "It's okay, Grog. You're back, that's all that matters."
Laura: That's the saddest thing ever!
Travis: I crawl through the door. Can I run to Pike? That's my turn.
Sam: Did you get any of his name?
Matt: Doesn't have a chance yet. At the end of this turn, it uses the last two points of its legendary actions to Teleport.
Sam: I'm going to Counterspell that.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Don't know why.
Liam: Keep it away from Pike and Grog!
Taliesin: It's always the right move.
Liam: Yeah. Instinct, buddy.
Matt: All right. So now we get to go ahead and roll for this, I believe. Let me go ahead and check what level it is, I believe it's a-- all right, this is a 7th-level spell.
Sam: Jesus. I mean, I wrote down crazy things, but it says at level four, roll plus five, versus ten plus level. I don't even know what that means!
Matt: Here, hold on. So DC equals ten plus level, so it's DC 17.
Sam: Okay. So I have to roll?
Matt: Using an ability check. Roll d20 and add five, trying to beat a 17.
Sam: Ability check at disadvantage.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Yeah, that's not going to happen.
Liam: Yes it is, come on.
Sam: Well, that would've worked. The first one was an 11 plus five.
Matt: 16. One under. You go to Counterspell, but the image of its head, and seeing Pike wounded, it's too much for you and your hand shakes and you can't manage to clarify the Dispel Magic, as the whole sphinx vanishes and appears right next to Pike. All right. That brings us to Vax.
Liam: Can I try to make my wisdom save before I do anything, or does that come at the end?
Matt: At the end of your turn.
Liam: All right. Then I'm going to come around the corner.
Matt: It's not in your sight, by the way, you don't see it.
Liam: I know. Can I walk over, yeah, ten feet that way and see it scowling down at Pike.
Matt: You can, yeah, around the edge.
Liam: And put three daggers in its flank.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: First one misses, it's a 13. 24. And a 15.
Matt: All right. 13, 24, 15.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Middle one hits.
Liam: Eight. Eight points of damage. I'm going to try to shake off the fear.
Matt: Eight points. It does get sneak attack because it's adjacent to Pike.
Liam: But am I at disadvantage because of the fear? I thought I was at disadvantage.
Matt: Oh, you're at disadvantage to all the attacks, yeah. Wait, I'm sorry. I thought those were your three attacks.
Liam: I did three attack rolls, but I thought that to get sneak attack damage I need advantage, but if I'm afraid, I don't have advantage.
Matt: Right, but Pike's still adjacent. That's one of the ways you can get sneak attack, is either having advantage or an ally's adjacent.
Liam: All right. I thought that meant that, sorry. All right, I'll take it. Four, seven, 13, 25. Added to what I said before, which was eight, so 33.
Matt: 33. So one dagger, two of them you throw and they vanish into the cyclone, consumed and thankfully return with magic or they would be gone for good. Third one you throw. It stabs into the shank of the sphinx, who growls, turns back to Pike. All right, is that your turn?
Liam: I don't know what I rolled, so I'm going to roll again. 20.
Matt: 20. You manage to finally shake off the fear. All right.
Liam: Can I use the rest of my movement?
Matt: You can, yes.
Liam: I'm going to run up to the side of the sphinx.
Matt: You're there. All righty. Now produces two spiders. Jump out of the web. Both of them, the only thing they see, rush up to Vex. That is a natural 20 and a two. (laughs) So the second one misses you, first one you take 16 points of psychic damage, and that one vanishes on the impact. All right. That ends their turn. Up to the top, Vex, it's your turn.
Laura: Grog, what did you see?
Travis: Can I respond?
Matt: I would say make a wisdom saving throw. At the sight of what you've done to Pike and all that is happening, this is to see if you can shake from the stupor of what has happened.
Travis: Nine.
Matt: He's not responsive right now.
Laura: I guess I-- Jesus. Can I bring Trinket out? That's stupid. If I, well, I'm going to go and try to see what's going on over there with the sphinx.
Matt: Okay, so you rush over right there?
Laura: Can I see Grog?
Matt: You can, you can see Grog. As you rush around the corner, you can see the sphinx there, you see Pike with Craven Edge partially embedded in her abdomen, the chain now lax, as Grog is standing on the outside of the portal holding it in his hand, his eyes wide. The rage has faded now, by the way.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Can I run forward and cast Cure Wounds on Pike?
Sam: She's Pike!
Laura: She's got a fucking sword in her! Can I help her?
Matt: Yeah, you could cast Cure Wounds if you want.
Laura: I mean, does she still have a sword through her, can I pull her off of it and then cast it?
Matt: Sword is still inside of her right now, yeah.
Liam: Don't do damage to yourself.
Matt: You can try and pull it out if you want to. Make a strength check. Roll a d20, add your strength modifier.
Laura: I know, I-- oh, natural 20!
Matt: And for the one who normally can't find the physical strength of activities like this, through the inspiration of seeing--
Laura: It reminds me of what happened to Pike before.
Matt: Yeah. And that clear image crystallizes in your mind of when that glabrezu snatched her from you once. And with that, you find the strength to persevere, you reach out and grabbing the jagged blade take nine points of necrotic damage in touching the outside of the blade, but you pull, you can see the blood forming at the edge of your fingers as you yank it outside of Pike's body, and it clatters to the ground at the base of Grog's feet. Grog's still seeing this all before you, eyes wide open, mouth agape.
Laura: Grog, snap out of it! And I cast Cure Wounds on Pike's stomach.
Matt: Okay, what level?
Laura: Level three.
Matt: Level three. So 3d8 plus, I think it's-- what's your modifier for wisdom?
Laura: Three.
Matt: So 3d8 plus three. And that will end Vex's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Can I roll to see if I'm fearful?
Matt: That'll be the end of your turn.
Sam: Okay. Then I'm going to, as a bonus action, cast Healing Words on myself.
Laura: 17.
Matt: 17? Okay, good to know.
Sam: I'll heal myself at level two. 2d4 plus five. Okay. Seven points, great. And then for my action I'll Dimension Door into the tornado.
Matt: Okay. You Dimension Door into the cyclone. You find yourself on the outside of the wind before it grabs you and pulls you in. You step through a portal and you're now drifting out in an expanse of air and cloud. There's no up, there's no down, there's no left or right, you see various masses of land slowly rotating in place as you see different gusts of wind floating about. You drift by and see a single stone that has carvings on it.
Sam: Dammit.
Taliesin: You did this to yourself.
Sam: Great.
Matt: However, you have no anchor and you are drifting away from the opening you came through.
Sam: That's my action and my bonus. I have no movement.
Matt: Correct, so you were--
Sam: I'm gonna just do this.
Matt: Okay. You do that. There's, it's air, you're still drifting away. All right. That brings us to the top of the initiative round. Let's see. For this one, I need everyone in the room to go ahead and make another constitution saving throw.
Travis: So ready for a nap. 24.
Matt: 24. Vex, what'd you get?
Laura: Six.
Liam: Seven.
Matt: Keyleth?
Marisha: Do I use my fire elemental constitution? 14.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18. Okay. Pike makes it.
Laura: So hard to get these last two fucking letters.
Matt: Okay, so you rolled a 14?
Marisha: 14.
Matt: All right, so Keyleth, Vax, and Vex, all three of you guys suddenly feel the wind pulled out from you once again, and you all age, and now I'm giving you the specifics here, you're aging each time this happens. Ten years. All three of you. Bones are starting to ache a little bit. Not terribly, but a little more than usual. Your body's now starting to feel the wear of time passage.
Travis: If that's happened twice, they're 20 years older.
Matt: Yeah. 25 for those who got hit before.
Sam: Wait, the first time was 25 years?
Matt: The first one was 15, now it's an additional ten to those who were hit.
Laura: The first one was 15?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Wow. But as a half-elf you have a longer life, so really at age 50, you're not that far in.
Matt: It's not huge, it's not like a major difference. You know, 25 years to a human, to Percy, would be a lot harsher than it is to you guys. It's minor differences. It is now the sphinx's turn, the sphinx is now going to (roars) roar even louder this time. This roar echoes out with a shockwave. I need everybody except for Scanlan to make another wisdom saving throw.
Marisha: Fuck me.
Travis: Ten.
Matt: Ten? And you were still frightened from previously, right? Because you did not shake that.
Travis: Yeah, I never shook it, still in a rage, but never shook it.
Laura: But your rage ended.
Matt: You dropped the rage. All right. Pike. All right.
Laura: Natural 20.
Liam: 11.
Marisha: 24.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: All right, so. Vax, suddenly as the blast hits, the fear hits you again as the sound vanishes and you can't hear.
Liam: Mup.
Matt: There's nothing. You are completely deafened.
Travis: Deafened?
Matt: As are you and Pike. However, because you were previously frightened, you find your muscles tense up and you are both paralyzed as well. You cannot move, you cannot speak, you cannot--
Liam: And I'm not afraid, but I'm deaf.
Matt: You are afraid and deaf. Yeah. All right. Percy, it's your turn.
Travis: We've both seen it, we can't say shit.
Sam: Well, I'm floating to my death, so.
Taliesin: Bugger all, I got to fix this shit. Oh, what a clusterfuck.
Sam: Don't worry, I still have my lips. (blows whistle) (laughter)
Taliesin: Great. Okay. Where is-- can you point to Vex in that?
Travis: Wait, didn't I have Freedom of Movement?
Matt: This is Vex here. You do have Freedom of Movement. So you are not currently affected by paralysis. Look at you, remembering your buffs, buddy! So the fear still hits you, and your muscles tense, but you, looking over at Pike now frozen in place, you remember everything that's transpired and that holy divine energy that she imbued upon you glows from the inside, and your muscles return to you and you're still able to function.
Travis: Oh, Pike!
Matt: Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to turn around the corner.
Matt: Around here?
Taliesin: Grog, say the bloody words!
Matt: Make another wisdom saving throw.
Marisha: Come on, Grog. Snap out of it.
Travis: Nine. At a disadvantage.
Taliesin: Okay. All right, all right, all right. What the fuck am I going to do? I am going to hold my turn right here.
Matt: Okay, holding your action.
Taliesin: Until such time as someone says the fucking letters that we need, and I'm going to be ready to yell them out.
Matt: All right, Keyleth. Actually, at the end of Percy's turn, the sphinx is going to go ahead. It's going to use one of its actions to do a claw attack now against-- this is going to be against Pike. That is going to be a 15, which misses. The claw, even though she's paralyzed-- actually, no, he has advantage on the attack because she's paralyzed. Rolled a one on the second one. Manages to hit her, but the armor and the shield takes the brunt of it, not dealing any physical damage to it. There's now frustration in the sphinx's voice as it's growling with each one of these screams. Now it is your turn, Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay. Question  as a fire elemental, I can fly, right?
Matt: Does it say on the fire elemental? It should say movement: flight.
Marisha: It says that I can, oh, movement? It doesn't really say, it says I can move through a space as narrow as one inch wide without squeezing.
Matt: Well, for the elemental form here, which I have a list of your elemental forms just in case. Fire elemental, speed of 50 feet. No, it cannot fly. It moves as a flame across the ground.
Marisha: Can't fly. So if I go into that portal I'm going to be in the same fucking situation, I'm assuming.
Taliesin: Sadly, there is only one of us who can fly, and very busy right now.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to drop my elemental form--
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: You still have my Immovable Rod?
Laura: It's planted next to the water.
Matt: It's over there.
Laura: But my rope is attached to it and it's dangling next to me. I dropped it when I healed Pike. So it's right next to me, I pulled the robe over to there.
Matt: Yeah, the robe that produces the rope is on the ground right now next to Vex.
Marisha: Okay, before I drop elemental form I'm going to go pick up the rod.
Matt: What are you doing?
Marisha: It's so I can move faster. Pick up the rod.
Matt: 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, and then you drop your form to grab the rope.
Marisha: Drop my form.
Matt: And you're grabbing the what? The rod?
Marisha: The Immovable Rod.
Matt: All right, so you click the rod off. You now have the rod with the rope on the end of it.
Marisha: And do I still have movement now as myself?
Matt: No, you-- in dropping the form, you've used most of-- I'd say you have one more square of movement left.
Marisha: I'll step forward a square.
Matt: This way or this way?
Marisha: No, the other way. Yeah, yeah. And say, Vex, catch!
Matt: Okay, so you throw the Immovable Rod to her?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Make a dexterity check, easy enough for you.
Laura: 19.
Matt: Yeah, you catch the rod, no issue.
Laura: I know, it was really close.
Matt: All right. So is that your turn?
Marisha: I think so. I think that's all I can do.
Matt: All right, that ends Keyleth's turn. At the end of Keyleth's turn it's going to use another legendary action. This one, it's going to go ahead and reach out and strike at you, Vex, as you're now holding the rod.
Laura: Of course.
Matt: That's going to be a 29 to hit. You suffer 28 points of slashing damage as its giant claw rakes across the front of your body, almost tossing you off your feet from the sheer force of the blow.
Laura: 28 points?
Matt: 28 points. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: I look down at Pike. Pike, buddy, are you all right?
Matt: You've gotten your senses back now at this point. You look at her, and she's still frozen in place. She can't move and you can see the sweat's still pouring from her face. The wound has stopped bleeding, the wound is still fresh and visible.
Travis: And I call out, the letters inside the wind are O-R-I.
Marisha: O-R-I.
Laura: Maljikaori? Maljikairi?
Liam: Karimaljika?
Laura: Kaorimal?
Marisha: Malkaoriji?
Matt: Anyway. Anyway, before you guys start doing this whole thing, take your turns to do stuff. Grog. What else do you want to do on your turn?
Travis: I turn, I face the sphinx, and I don't do anything.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Craven Edge is on the ground, right?
Matt: Craven Edge is on the ground, yeah.
Travis: That's it. That's all I do.
Matt: Okay. Ending Grog's turn, it is Pike's turn. Pike cannot move, fails the saving throw, unfortunately is still paralyzed, still frightened.
Taliesin: I was holding my action for this.
Matt: Okay, what are you going to do?
Taliesin: Maljikaori?
Matt: No response.
Marisha: Hang on, wait, before you move it, before you move it, put it back, put it back, put it back. Okay, I want to write it down.
Taliesin: Maorikalji!
Matt: Nothing.
Laura: The order was fire, earth, water, air. That was the circle. So it could be in any of those orders, maybe.
Matt: You've got one more try before your turn's up, this is--
Taliesin: Malkaoriji!
Matt: Nope. That is your turn, however. In the six seconds, you shout out, you come up with and shout out those three things. That ends Percy's turn. At the end of Percy's turn, it's going to use its third legendary action to go ahead and make another strike at Vex holding the rod. 25 to hit.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Takes another claw and rakes you for 28 points of slashing damage.
Laura: I'm unconscious.
Matt: Vex falls unconscious on the ground from the blow, the rod clacks to the ground behind her. That ends that turn. All right. Oh shit, I did that out of order. It's fine. That's my fault. Percy shouldn't have got that turn, but we'll say it happened, it's fine. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm going to use my bonus action to disengage from the sphinx and I'm going to run around the whirlwind, and as I move I'm taking the rope which I already made a loop on, and I'm going to throw the loop over Grog's head on one end, and I'm going to jump into the whirlwind holding tightly-- I'm going to, into there, I'm going after Scanlan.
Matt: The rope clenches onto your neck and you feel like you're being choked suddenly. Without even realizing this, as you shout this out, all of a sudden a lasso is thrown around your neck and pulls back and cuts off your air supply.
Travis: (chokes) Okay.
Matt: And you vanish into the cyclone. The rope goes taut, pulling. You come through the portal and you can see, indeed, Scanlan's about 30 feet away and drifting.
Liam: And I was hasted and I ran at the whirlwind.
Matt: Right. Which is why you're gaining on him, but it's still going to take a moment as you're both still drifting, because he also leapt through.
Liam: It's really quiet in here. But then again it would be really quiet out of here as well.
Matt: Yep. All right, so. That's going to be the end of your turn, Vax. This spider now is going to leap over as two more, or sorry, three more leap out of this. They all rush up to Keyleth, she's the one visible person there, and all making strikes against you. That is 19 to hit.
Marisha: Hits.
Matt: Eight.
Marisha: Miss.
Matt: 23.
Marisha: Hits.
Matt: And ten.
Marisha: Miss.
Matt: All right, so you take 12 points of psychic damage as two of the spiders dissipate, leaving nothing but a psychic mist behind. All right. Top of the turn, Vex, I need you to make a death saving throw.
Laura: Six.
Matt: Six. Mark off one of your failed death saving throws. Scanlan, your turn, you're floating out in space and you see all of a sudden through the portal, Vax come rocketing towards you, hand forward, clutching a rope in one hand, arm outstretched towards you. What do you want to do?
Sam: Well, as much as I appreciate the gesture, I'm going to try to Dimension Door out of here.
Liam: I deftly roll my eyes so fucking hard.
Matt: You Dimension Door and you appear right at the doorway. You cannot Dimension Door through dimensions. But you make your way to the outside of the door. You are still drifting with the momentum you had going backwards, so you appear back at the door and start going backwards again.
Sam: Can I grab the door?
Matt: You can grab the rope.
Liam: I don't see or hear him, so I assume he is healing my sister right now, and I feel comforted.
Matt: You see him vanish. There's the rope there that Vax is carrying. You can grab onto that and wrestle through. With that, Scanlan manages to pull himself through the portal, landing onto the side right there. And you're fine now. That's probably going to take your full action, everything to get there, but you're out--
Sam: Bonus too?
Matt: I'll give you a bonus, sure, because your movement.
Sam: All right. Do I have time to assess and see that she's dead?
Matt: She's doing pretty rough, yeah.
Sam: I will heal her.
Matt: All right. Healing Word.
Sam: Healing Word at level--
Matt: What level are you doing?
Sam: I don't have many levels. At level three.
Matt: Okay. So that's 3d4 plus five.
Sam: I roll?
Matt: Yes. 3d4 plus five. Finishing up Scanlan's turn--
Sam: 11.
Laura: Hey, it's better than zero. Thank you. I'm alive!
Matt: All right. I need everybody in the room to roll another constitution saving throw.
Laura: (laughs) Oh no.
Matt: Except for you, you're not in the room.
Laura: This aging thing, is it permanent forever?
Sam: We'll find out later.
Marisha: Maybe if we ask nicely, he'll make us young again.
Liam: I probably look really good with ten years on me.
Travis: 16.
Laura: Nine.
Liam: I'm not here.
Matt: Oh, sorry. Keyleth?
Marisha: 17.
Matt: Pike succeeds. 17.
Taliesin: 24.
Sam: 21.
Matt: 21. All right. So.
Sam: Do I also have to roll for fear?
Matt: At the end of your turn you would, yes. Actually, no, I think that's gone off of you now. It's fine. So Vex, you come to consciousness, and you age another four years.
Liam: Aw, he softballed you with that one.
Matt: I rolled a four. It's a d20 every time. Yeah.
Marisha: Shit.
Taliesin: You basically just got Netflix, that's really all that happened.
Matt: It is now the sphinx's turn.
Travis: We're all laughing and one of us is unconscious.
Laura: We're seriously going to die.
Taliesin: We're not going to die, we're doing great.
Marisha: We're doing all right.
Matt: There. Next to Scanlan and Percy, two claw attacks against you. That is a 28. And 21.
Taliesin: I'm going to use my shield to glance off the 21. I'm going to use the shield of plus five AC.
Matt: Okay. Which reduces it to a--
Taliesin: Versus AC of 23. It gives me a temporary AC of 23.
Matt: Right, so the second one would miss. So the first strike hits you for 28 points of slashing damage, the second one scrapes across the arcane barrier that appears before you from the brooch, and resist that. That's the end of its turn. Percy, you got your turn last turn when you shouldn't have, but I'm letting that fly--
Taliesin: No, because I was holding my--
Matt: Oh sorry, you were holding it, yes.
Taliesin: It's all part of the plan.
Matt: I confused myself. So yeah. Now it's your turn.
Taliesin: I said Jamalkaori last time, if I recall.
Matt: You did.
Taliesin: Kaorijimal.
Matt: Nothing.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to, while I'm saying all these things I'm going to be running around the corner back towards the spiderweb. Make another one.
Matt: What have you said so far?
Taliesin: We said, Maljikaori--
Marisha: Maorikaji.
Taliesin: Jimalkaori.
Marisha: And Kaorijimal.
Matt: Right, okay. So. You have two more if you wanted to do anything, Taliesin.
Marisha: You should try that one.
Taliesin: Is that as far as I can move right now?
Matt: You can move up to there, I think.
Taliesin: Okay, I can't get any closer to the web?
Matt: Not for your full movement, unfortunately.
Taliesin: Kamaljiori?
Matt: At this point, all of a sudden the braziers flicker out. You notice as the wind cyclone begins to slowly drift to a minor wind curl. At this point in time, Grog, if you wanted to pull on that rope it would be a good time.
Travis: Yeah, I turn around and grab the thing that's strangling my neck like a dog leash and I yank it in real hard.
Matt: With that, you, as you're drifting off, you turn around and see the doorway where the rope goes taut, and the door begins to close.
Liam: Bye, guys.
Matt: You're pulling yourself in, and suddenly you're yanked through and come shooting out of it on the side. With that--
Liam: I can't hear you.
Matt: --the angry demeanor of the sphinx has entirely shifted. And now it goes from like this low, feral position to a proud, honored beast, putting its paws forward, its shoulders high. "You have earned a name."
Liam: What did you say?
Sam: Oh yeah, they're deaf.
Matt: It raises a paw like this, at which point all the paralysis fades, all the fear fades, all the effects fade.
Marisha: Are we young again?
Matt: The age is not dispersed.
Sam: Ever?
Matt: Hold on a second, let me see what it can do. Actually, no. It goes forward and looks at you, who's looking the worst for wear comparatively and says, "I can help but one of you." And his paw goes out and touches you, there's a warm glow, and the age vanishes from you. "However, that is the extent of my magic this day. Perhaps the little one could help a few at this. It is but a rather challenging restoration." Pike nods. "I can do that. I can do that."
Laura: I look at Vax and laugh at him because he's so much older than I am.
Marisha: That's true, oh my god, you guys are never going to experience this ever again.
Matt: "I apologize for the formalities, but it is a pleasure to meet you, Vox Machina."
Taliesin: Hello.
Marisha: Hi.
Laura: You too.
Sam: What was his name again?
Matt: "Kamaljiori."
Liam: Hahaha, good one, that was a good one. Hazing. Who doesn't love hazing, right?
Marisha: At about that time, I lift up my shoulder and I show him the Slayer's Take symbol.
Matt: He gives a nod.
Sam: Don't we get something out of this?
Matt: Looks to you and says, "I admire your impatience. The Vestiges that you seek. Some have been destroyed over this epoch. Others lie scattered across the planes. Some are sealed or hidden. Others have found an owner. You carry one now, I see." The sphinx backs up and turns around on the steps and lays down, crossing its paws, glancing at you all, shoulders high. And a smile, it's warm, it's this interesting contrast to when you first entered. "Well. I happen to carry a Vestige here, if you will take it."
Sam: I mean, sure, if you're getting rid of it anyway.
Taliesin: It is most gracious of you.
Matt: Gets up and turns around to the back of the platform. Takes the marble from beneath its fur and holds it up to one of the doorways, which switches--
Sam: What?
Liam: Dwarven Forge.
Laura: Secret doors.
Matt: It pulls something from within (shing), and you see this single thin blade that vibrates as he pulls it out. The door closes, it puts the marble away. The blade goes into its teeth, and it steps back down the stairs. Takes the blade from its hand as it stops, and holds it out. It's impossibly small in its hand, it looks very dinky. "Here I keep the Mythcarver."
Marisha: Mythcarver?
Matt: "Granted to me by the White Duke himself before his passing. We were friends long ago. It is yours." He takes the blade and sets it down on the stone. "But you seek the others that remain, yes?"
Sam: Yes, yes.
Taliesin: Very much so.
Matt: "Fenthras, the Wrath of the Feywarden, a bow that felled Titans. It was lost in the Feywild in the Calamity."
Liam: Obviously for Scanlan.
Laura: Obviously.
Matt: "It now acts as the heart of a cancerous tree, corrupting the verdant land there. The Plate of the Dawnmartyr, beacon of protection to the chosen of Pelor, gathers dust on a wall in the City of Brass, a trophy won by a fire giant in a card game from a Suutan bloodline that once donned it."
Marisha: What was that called again?
Matt: Don't worry, I wrote all these down for you guys.
Laura: Oh, thank you. I know, I'm like, there's going to be a test later!
Matt: I know. I got this for you guys. "Cabal's Ruin, a magic-devouring cloak once used by an assassin to eliminate the unscrupulous den of Druja. It is now worn by a merchant-warrior with a missing eye in the walls of Ank'harel. The Spire of Conflux, a staff born from Melora's very breath, was devoured, along with its previous owner, by a goristro named Yenk in the endless maze of the Abyss."
Sam: Let's go there!
Matt: "The Titanstone Knuckles were taken from the brutalized corpse of their proud owner, now worn by a terrible half-giant turned tyrant in Westruun. I sense you know this, tall one. I can taste your fear from here. Whisper, blade forged from metal pulled from the Far Realm, was a center to many a dark ritual. It now lies at the bottom of the Ozmit Sea, sunken with the lost ship, The Shrew, in a storm 300 years ago near an island of glass. Know that all life is connected on an impossibly small level, beyond the mind's ability to understand on your level. Ideas transcend distance, language. Many share dreams, thoughts, inspirations without knowing. The fact that you are now aware of these, others too may now be drawn to the search as well. Beware. Now go. You have earned the name, you have earned the knowledge. The race is on." And with that, sand begins to erupt from the two piles of rubble, swirling in a giant whirlwind of blasted stone and sand, you guys have to cover your eyes as it begins to completely consume the vision around you. You see the sphinx back up towards the top of the platform before the sand consumes even within 15 feet, ten feet, five feet of your vision. You lose sight of your friends around you, and for a second the panic hits you before the sand comes to a stop and drops to the ground. Looking around, you stand at the base of the triangular cavern entrance by the mountain range where you first entered the temple. And that's where we'll end tonight's game.
Travis: Fucking shit.
Laura: That got so much more intense than I ever thought it was going to.
Travis: I thought it was going to be like a gentle education, like a gentle ribbing.
Laura: Yeah, I thought we'd go and talk to this guy.
Liam: Hey, we're friends with your girlfriend, want to give us some stuff?
Travis: Matt, that was--
Matt: Well done, guys!
Travis: A crazy-ass puzzle.
Marisha: We can look at that list, so I can make some serious notes?
Matt: Yeah. There's a list for you guys.
Travis: I'll make a copy of it, I'll make a copy of it.
Laura: Do we need to go after all of them? We'll do it; we'll talk about it later.
Marisha: I think we each need to be outfitted with something. We need our legendary weapons, you guys.
Laura: We took the weapon off the ground before he portaled us out, right, Matt?
Matt: Yes, actually. In which case I will give this to you as you now have access to its capabilities.
Marisha: Fenthras? Is that what it was-- no.
Matt: No, the Mythcarver. It's a legendary longsword. This incredible silvered blade once belonged to the White Duke himself, and many more master bards before him. It resonates with nearby musical tones. It acts as a plus three longsword, and the weapon deals an additional 1d6 force damage upon a hit. Whenever you use your Bardic Inspiration feature, you gain advantage on attacks with this weapon until the end of your turn.
Travis: Advantage on attacks?
Matt: So if you were to give somebody-- use your bonus action before your attack, you would get advantage on any attacks with the weapon.
Liam: Percy, that was made for you.
Taliesin: I know, obviously. I'm so excited.
Matt: And whenever you use your Cutting Words feature against an enemy, the target also has disadvantage on its next saving throw.
Laura: Wow!
Travis: Holy shit.
Sam: Well, I guess I'll have to take it.
Taliesin: I've got a weird question I'm going to throw out there. Did you pick your sword back up before all this mess happened?
Travis: Yep.
Sam: Hey, the White Duke!
Matt: As Grog looks at his feet, the blade that still laid there before you, tethered to you by chain, still remains at your feet as you see the chain amongst the sand.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Matt: Still jagged, still extended, still in its full form. All right. So. Well done, everyone. We'll pick this up next week for the 50th episode, so excited. (cheering)
Matt: Thank you guys for sticking around for this very long episode.
Laura: That was long.
Matt: I know it was long, I wanted to try and get through this before we started the 50th.
Marisha: Oh my god, it's midnight.
Matt: Yeah, sorry guys. So long. Hope we're cool.
Travis: We're cool.
Liam: (singing) It's the last midnight.
Matt: All right you guys, well, thank you so much for watching. Have a good night, and is it Thursday yet?
Liam: Yes. Two more minutes.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors get together and play Dungeons & Dragons. Tonight, apologies for the slight technical issues, but we're back and we're going to be playing through tonight's adventure. Before that gets started, let's go ahead and get through a couple of quick announcements. First and foremost, it's our third week of our Loot Crate sponsorship. Thank you very much. (cheering)
Matt: Thank you for your interest in our show and our audience, so for those of you who are interested, Loot Crate is a really cool service where once a month they bring you themed boxes that have mystery contents within that are part of that theme. All generally pop culture and geek-centric.
Laura: Taliesin, you're so loud!
Matt: Taliesin, quiet!
Sam: Shut up, Taliesin. Jesus. (laughter)
Travis: Stop masturbating during the announcements.
Laura: It's so loud. What are you doing?
Taliesin: I think I hit my microphone.
Sam: Don't worry. You're not an audio professional.
Matt: That's okay. At least it wasn't during a very climactic and important emotional moment in the game.
Travis: (laughing) Yeah, that's right.
Ashley: You're welcome!
Matt: (laughs) Anyway, yeah. Loot Crate's awesome. We've gone with it for years. They send mystery items that are all geek and pop culture-related. They're a lot of fun, and if you go to their website at www.LootCrate.com/criticalrole and check it out. If you like it and you get a subscription, you can use criticalrole-- one word-- as a promo code to get $3 off a subscription.
Sam: I'm wearing some of the stuff from the crate right now.
Travis: And they've got a power crate coming out.
Laura: David Bowie! Labyrinth!
Travis: They have an Infinity Gauntlet oven mitt.
Marisha: That's pretty dope.
Laura: Is that giving something away? I feel like we gave spoilers.
Liam: It was already Periscoped.
Laura: Oh, that's true. Never mind.
Matt: That would be nice in the box. We're good? We didn't waste it?
Liam: What's in the box?
Ashley: (singing) A dick in a box.
Matt: I hope there is no dick in a box as part of this service. Or perhaps I guess you do, depending on-- that's a whole different box service.
Marisha: If there is, you should call your local post office. (laughter)
Matt: That's a love box membership. Anyway, so! Also, once again, I want to remind everyone, we are happily carrying along the torch of 826LA, a fantastic charity that's been with us from the very beginning. 826 is a wonderful charity that promotes creative writing skills and literacy in mostly underprivileged kids at a young age, at which they normally don't have access to tutoring and people to help them on that direction, so if you can and have the opportunity and you're feeling like giving to some awesome people out there, 826LA, and 826 in general in your area, is a great charity to take a look at, so please. You guys have been a tremendous help in the past and you may continue to be so, if you wish.
Travis: Absolutely.
Matt: Good times. Let's see. Taliesin is joining us from Hawaii. Where are you at, Taliesin?
Taliesin: Where am I right now? I'm in my hotel room. Somewhere-- which island are we on? Oahu. We're on Oahu. For Amazing Comic-Con.
Matt: If you're on Oahu and you're watching this, you should go say hi to him. Not right now, but tomorrow and Sunday. And the rest of the great folks that are out there with you. All good people. Big old Street Fighter troupe. Also, we have Travis and his nose goblin and Laura, you guys are attending Puerto Rico Comic-Con?
Laura: Yeah! We leave early tomorrow morning.
Liam: Ah, you can sleep on the plane.
Laura: Good times.
Travis: Yeah! If you're in Puerto Rico, come see us. We'll be there, totally sleep-deprived and bushy-tailed.
Liam: It's a good one, though.
Travis: It's a good one?
Liam: Yeah, I went to that one.
Travis: We're excited to go. San Juan, baby. San Juan!
Matt: That's pretty slick, actually.
Marisha: That's awesome.
Matt: Does anybody else-- you said you wanted to mention something?
Liam: Yeah, Sam Riegel and I are both in Fallout Far Harbor, which is the first big DLC story dump. "Fah Hahbah." Fallout is my favorite way to escape reality second to this, so I hope you come join me. I play a human guy, but there's also a synth. Look for the synth.
Sam: I think I play a synth. And there you go.
Liam: There you go. That's it.
Sam: Good plug.
Marisha: You can also build a Taliesin robot, which I did, and named it the Taliesin 2000.
Laura: Aw, that's awesome!
Matt: So you could take either a custom-build Taliesin or me as your companion to Far Harbor and talk to these shmucks. And have a full Critical Role after-the-apocalypse experience. That's awesome. Okay, we're actually going to be downloading that soon. Anyone else have anything they want to mention before we jump into the game tonight?
Travis: Let's do this.
Marisha: I don't want to die.
Matt: Let's go ahead and get this started, as we dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role!
Sam: Nothing's happening.
Matt: No intro.
Sam: Nothing's happening. (laughter)
Sam: Wait! Let's act it out.
Matt: Act out the intro?
Marisha: Okay! (imitating music)
Travis: (growls)
Marisha: (swishing sound effects)
Sam: Taliesin, do something!
Liam: Shoot from your screen!
Laura: Shoot, you're shooting your gun! Be Percy!
Liam: Then you got hit by a wang!
Laura: Oh, you fall over!
Matt: Well done Taliesin, that was great. Ashley picks him up.
Laura: She's healing him.
Ashley: I'll hold your hand! Eyes closed, holding my holy symbol!
Matt: And it got weird.
Ashley: Had to add it.
Matt: And now it swings--
Liam: Oh, Laura Bailey standing in for an orc! (stabbing sound) Ugh, gah! Now be yourself oh!
Laura: Pew pew!
Liam: And I'll go oh!
Laura: And then I'll go oh! Then I wink at you.
Travis: This was not the plan, for the love of god help us!
Laura: And then I shoot another one at you! [actual intro plays]
Matt: Welcome back to this majestic clusterfuck that is tonight. (laughter)
Matt: As open beta leaves its red and raw path, we rebuild! We stand up against the swaggering might of the new programming, and we stand tall for tonight's episode of Critical Role. Previously, Vox Machina, the band of adventurers walking through Tal'Dorei post-attack of the Chroma Conclave, an evil troupe of chromatic dragons that are currently holding power in this region and beyond, after tearing through many of the bastions of society in this countryside. They have gone on a quest to search for artifacts known as the Vestiges of Divergence, from ancient wars and heroes of old and yore, to use against the leader of the Chroma Conclave, Thordak the Cinder King. Now as part of this confrontation, they made their way to the city of Westruun, which was partially destroyed by the black dragon, Umbrasyl. While it was off and away with the rest of the Conclave, was then conquered by the wandering Herd of Storms that Grog once belonged to. After finding it occupied by these rather brutal barbaric individuals, Vox Machina set into the city, destroyed and tore down their leader Kevdak, to much fanfare from Grog's past. And through Kevdak's son and Grog's majestic might they decided to take the remainder of the Herd of Storms and take out Umbrasyl, the great black dragon. Half the Herd didn't like that and has decided to leave to their own devices, where the rest of the party possibly prepares to plot and plan a way to kill an ancient black dragon.
Travis: I don't like the way he said that. Why'd you have to say it like that? It's just a black dragon!
Matt: What else am I going to say?
Liam: Why the dramatic pauses?
Matt: Because it's fun.
Travis: You used the word 'somehow'.
Matt: I like it. You guys, having just finished this stroke of a conversation with Zanror in the Margrave's homestead, the dawn light is now beginning to pour over the mountain range in the distance. The day has officially begun. Zanror has stepped out and has begun to speak with a few of his trusted Herd members to stand down for the day, letting people know that the battle has been postponed for the time being while a plan is to be enacted, prepared for, and then sprung the following day. The rest of you guys have this day to prepare however you see fit. So I ask you: what would you like to do?
Sam: We have so many things that we need to do!
Matt: Where do we begin?
Sam: We need supplies. We need to parlay with our allies. We need lots of chains.
Laura: We need to trap the dragon obviously on the ground.
Sam: For that we'll need some bindings of some sort: chains, hooks, spikes.
Taliesin: I have a thought, I have a thought in that direction. When we're ready, I was thinking of basically building what is essentially a giant pressurized mousetrap.
Laura: Is there, how would you do that?
Liam: How much time do you need, Perce?
Taliesin: Do I have access to some people to help build it, and some perhaps broken homes and chunks of wood and chain?
Matt: You do have access to broken homes, chain, and scraps at your disposal. As far as individuals that can aid you, you have individuals that can help hold things for you. The Herd of Storms is not known for its ingenious use of tinkering tools, but--
Laura: What about blacksmiths in town? Are there any blacksmiths left?
Matt: You can check around.
Taliesin: This would be a blacksmith just to make a couple springs. This is not a complicated-- This is literally something you could make in the woods. It's a slightly more complex version of something you could make in the woods to catch birds. I'm just building a really big version. It's a whole bunch of systems like this that will have chains and weights on them that when you disrupt the weight at the center the whole thing goes clunk, throws a whole bunch of-- it's basically a netting system. It's an entanglement and will be an entanglement.
Matt: Okay. I'll tell you what. Go ahead and roll an investigation check, Percy, if you don't mind.
Laura: Can we help him at all?
Matt: Yeah, I'll say if you want to go ahead and aid to that, take advantage on that, Percy.
Taliesin: Thank god. Yeah, no, not very good.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: I rolled a six.
Laura: With advantage?
Matt: With advantage?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: So! After taking the better part of about three hours scouring the town, most of the remaining villagers--
Laura: He took three hours doing that?!
Matt: Three hours, so, from what he's doing with the aid of people that aided him, which would be Vex asking about, the few folks that have any experience with any sort of blacksmithy are the folks that make horseshoes, and that's the extent of the complication they can create. So they can attempt to, with your aid, craft some springs. They have the materials to do very basic metalwork and ironwork, but the people you encounter, two folks in particular, they're both a little confused by your overall design and are waiting for you to lead them in a specific direction.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm just going to take them and I'm going to start building one and see if they can follow suit then. Three springs will be more than enough for this design.
Matt: How big a spring?
Taliesin: I would say, how tall is this dragon?
Matt: Roughly 30 to 40 feet, depending.
Taliesin: About a two-to-three-foot spring, then. Three two-to-three-foot springs made of solid iron. Just enough to lift the system and toss. And it's just, you make them like chainmail. It's a process that exists. I'm not going nuts.
Matt: I'm not saying you're going nuts. You are a little stretched for supplies and manpower based on the circumstances in Westruun for a complicated task, but it's fairly possible, but it will pretty much take the entirety of your day and most of your night to prepare this. You'll be able to squeeze by with this, with the construction of the device, and have maybe just enough room for-- I'll let you squeeze in a long rest.
Taliesin: That'll be perfect.
Matt: But that's success or fail.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: Okay. What are the rest of you guys planning?
Liam: Three hours ago, back when we were still together, I pulled Scanlan aside. Listen, I want to talk to you. I have an idea.
Sam: Is this about Kaylie? Because I'm still worried about her. But I don't think that we should discuss her right now. We have other things! Why are you harping on this? She's my daughter. (laughter)
Sam: Just give it a rest.
Liam: You're right, I should have never dragged you down into the sewers, and I apologize. It won't happen again. But listen to me. I have an idea. It's a dangerous idea, and I don't want to lead with it. I don't want to fight this dragon, to be honest, but I think the group is going that direction. If we do-- Percival's run off to try something, maybe we're just going to run out. I have an idea that only you can do.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: We have a rod.
Sam: Yes.
Liam: Not the cube. A rod that cannot be moved.
Sam: We could use it in some way.
Liam: You can teleport, and I'm almost too afraid to even suggest it, but if shit goes south, how would you feel about teleporting inside of Umbrasyl's stomach? With that rod.
Sam: Well, what has he eaten? Because it could be nasty in there!
Liam: I assume it will. I don't know anatomy. I haven't talked to my sister about this. She might be able to give us input, and I don't want to lead with this. I don't want you to do it because I feel like you could melt in there.
Sam: Of course I could melt in there! I'm a little man and he's got acid on him!
Liam: I know. I'm looking for a way through this fucking clusterfuck and if there's nothing else to do, you could go in there and click that rod and give him the worst suppository ever invented!
Sam: Listen. If there's a man invented who can go to where shit is made and make some really good shit, that's me. So let's pursue this. As a plan B.
Liam: As a plan B. And I take him by the shoulders. You remember that little talk we had about a week ago, when you told--
Sam: Is this about Kaylie again?
Liam: No, we can talk about Kaylie in a couple of days, all right?
Sam: Okay.
Liam: When you told me how things were better now? Okay, you remember that?
Sam: Yes.
Liam: That was fucking insane. They are not better. Everything is terrible! Our lives are terrible. They are way worse than they were six months ago, way worse. I was with all of you assholes a year ago, and two years ago, they're way worse.
Sam: You're saying that, a sullen loner who is confiding in one of his closest friends while holding him on the shoulders. This you never had before.
Liam: I slap him on the cheek a little bit and say: you are a fucking madman, but I am glad you're here.
Sam: I'm glad to be with you.
Liam: And I love you. And I give him a playful slap across the face.
Sam: Six points of damage. (laughter)
Matt: Unexpected, sneak attack. 7d6 points of damage.
Sam: All right, so I'm going to go talk to Vex. An expert in dragons I hope?
Laura: I'm an expert on dragons.
Sam: And ask her how dragons work, how their bodies work.
Laura: What do you mean?
Sam: Where they're vulnerable, where they make the acid, where they have lungs, where they have stomachs, how many stomachs? Are they like a cow with eight stomachs or something?
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence check with advantage.
Travis: Cows have eight stomachs?
Marisha: They've got like two or three.
Laura: Shut up! 17.
Matt: 17. Yeah, dragons have the pieces you imagine they would have in the right vicinity. Their stomach is quite acidic, as it has been known to dissolve some of the hardiest of creatures, let alone break down some basic minerals and materials. So it's not a happy place to be, but it's not like instantaneous dissolution. It will hurt. Also know that the breath weapon, the acid that a black dragon, which uses acid as a breath weapon in a stream in front of it, much like your lightning bolt, does not come from its stomach. That acid is much more toxic, concentrated, and comes from a separate part of its body, a gland, a breathing mechanism that projects it outward.
Laura: Where's the gland located? Would I know that, like, in his throat?
Matt: It's somewhere in this vicinity, you're not entirely certain.
Sam: So if I miss, end up in that gland, that would be not good.
Matt: That would be really bad.
Liam: Don't roll a one!
Ashley: But that would probably be really hard to just get right into that spot.
Liam: But you know, you wouldn't suffer.
Laura: It would be instantaneous, at least.
Sam: Also. Vex. Vex'ahlia.
Laura: Oh. Getting fancy now, Scanlan Shorthalt.
Sam: Thank you. Your brother tells me that you have some sort of acid-resistant something.
Laura: The armor? That I took from him?
Liam: Yes, my armor. She has it.
Laura: Well-- are you here? Are you next-- are you next to me now?
Liam: No, I'm about five feet behind you rolling my eyes and doing this the whole time you're talking about dragons.
Laura: It's the armor that I won fair and square from him! Yes, I am wearing it right now.
Sam: Is that your primary armor?
Laura: It is.
Sam: How would you feel about me asking you to take it off? Doing a little unbuckling and giving it to me instead?
Laura: Scanlan, that's going to cost you a lot of money.
Sam: We could swap armor.
Laura: You think your little armor will fit me.
Sam: I have a pretty broad chest. These are pecs.
Laura: What kind of armor do you have?
Sam: I have cold snap leather armor.
Laura: Which is cold resistant?
Sam: Cold resistant. Maybe the dragon will throw snowballs at you.
Laura: I doubt that. What is it, is it plus two?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: Plus two on top of the armor, so it's four.
Matt: So it's armor plus two.
Liam: It's better overall.
Laura: Okay. Well sweet, then yeah, sure, give it to me.
Sam: Can we do that?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Strip on down there, Scanlan.
Sam: Well, ladies first!
Laura: No, you first, I want to see the cube and then I'll give you my armor.
Sam: Shall we make it interesting and play a little poker?
Laura: There's no time for that.
Sam: All right. I very slowly and sultrily unbuckle my armor, let one strap fall, let the other strap fall, just do a little shimmy and let it fall to the ground, sort of like The Crying Game. Just sort of, camera pans up a little bit and it's just, there's nothing underneath, it's just me and the cube. And I cry a little. (laughter)
Liam: During which I pick up Scanlan's shawm and start playing it terribly. No idea what I'm doing. Do you blow into this, are there strings? I don't know.
Laura: I try really hard not to start laughing.
Sam: Go with what your body tells you to do. How are you going to take off your armor?
Laura: That's a good question. Do you want to walk away for this?
Liam: Yeah, I leave the room.
Laura: I completely ungracefully take it off and throw it at you. Give me that armor. How is this going to fit me? I'm just naked trying to squirm into these extra-skinny jeans.
Matt: Actually, as you pull the armor pieces up, they shift and formfit to your size as part of their enchantment.
Laura: What color is it? Is it beautiful?
Matt: The cold snap armor is I believe dark browns with traces of white and silver along the edges as a cold winter motif as part of the enchantment.
Laura: Does it match my storm bow?
Matt: Yeah, I guess you could say that.
Laura: You might not be getting this back, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, really? Well. What does mine look like?
Matt: For a moment, it looks pretty haphazard and hanging off of you.
Sam: Oh, these are like C-cups up here. (laughter)
Matt: As the armor slowly retracts and finds itself to your form.
Sam: Oh! They went down.
Matt: In that moment, Scanlan learned a lot about himself.
Sam: All right. I feel good about this. Now we'll continue our dragon lesson I suppose.
Laura: Wait, why did you need to change-- are you going to be up close and personal with him?
Sam: Well, I think we all are, you know. He breathes acid.
Laura: Well yes, but.
Sam: Yeah, so we could get hit! Now I'm more protected than you are!
Laura: This was a really stupid-- why did I give that up?
Sam: I'm very charming.
Laura: Now you're not here?
Liam: You told me to leave! You took off your clothes. I'm Liam, I'm not Vax, what're you talking about?
Laura: Are you planning on doing something?
Sam: We're all planning on doing something, and I don't think that my part of the plan is any stupider than yours will be. So. Good luck to you. I'll keep your armor safe. Hopefully we can trade back. And if not, you can peel it off my dead body.
Laura: As long as you're not melted from all the acid.
Ashley: I'd like to attune to my frostbrand sword.
Matt: Okay, so you'll be putting aside the mace of disruption and taking on the frostband instead. Okay. Cool.
Liam: Oh, shit, I go running after Percival. I'm going to go find Percival.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah. Well. Does that take an hour, or do I catch up with him pretty quick?
Matt: You would know the direction he went, and thankfully in the awkward still-quiet that is the center of the town now that it's missing most of its populace, and those that are there are acknowledging the tension of what might be coming, and many of them are now packing up and leaving and getting out of the town, evacuating when they've been notified of the possible coming battle. The sound of metal clangs in the distance, and the gathering of materials from some of the rubble is not too difficult to discern over time. Takes you about half an hour or so to locate him.
Liam: Oh, there's that white hair. Percival!
Taliesin: Yes? Hello. Bit busy. What?
Liam: Yeah, I'm sorry, I don't want to take up a lot of your time. I reckon you're going to be busy with this all day, yeah?
Taliesin: Oh yes. This is quite a project.
Liam: Ah, and also tomorrow. You're probably going to be taking potshots at that thing, yeah?
Taliesin: Ah, that's my hope is to be, honestly, as far away from this as humanly possible.
Liam: That's probably not my plan. Can I have use of your blade?
Taliesin: Oh! The dragonslayer longsword, yes, of course, of course. I pull it off my belt and hand it off. Could help. I'm a little terrified that you're getting that close to it, but here it is.
Liam: It's just in case.
Taliesin: It's quite a piece.
Liam: Good luck today.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: Good luck tomorrow.
Taliesin: I am down to my normal sword now.
Laura: Can I be talking to Zanror?
Marisha: I'll join you in that. That was my next plan.
Matt: The two of you eventually find Zanror. Zanror and Warra are in the process of piling weapons and armor with the rest of the Herd into the center of the town where the battle outside of the Margrave's house happened. Most of the warriors there are in the process of steeling themselves, some of them are gathering their materials, some are in the process of doing some minor ritualistic scarring in preparation for the battle. There is very little conversation happening. It seems like there is this quiet understanding that this, for many, might be their last day. They're making peace with the coming glory of battle. You'd expect this sense of tense fear, this very Battle of Helm's Deep-type acceptance of doom, but this is a different personality amongst the Herd here. There is almost a brimming excitement with the idea of possible glory or at least a glorious end. And it very much befits the story that you've heard of Grog's past history, and very easy to see where he once came from.
Laura: I bring Zanror a big tankard of ale and sit down in front of him. MATT "Oh, good to see you."
Marisha: I stand behind Vex'ahlia.
Matt: "This for me?"
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Looks to Worra.
Marisha: Don't worry, we wouldn't try to poison you the night before a dragon-fight.
Matt: (laughs) "That would be rather stupid, wouldn't it?"
Marisha: It would.
Matt: And he just downs it all in one big chug. "Thanks."
Laura: Zanror? Did I hear you correctly before, that you have been the one speaking with the beast in the past?
Matt: "I have, aye."
Laura: So when it comes and gathers its treasure, it stops and talks, or does it just come and take it and leave?
Matt: "It has at times. More at the beginning. If it had questions and seemed curious. That wore off after the first few times. Now it just seems to come and take and find its way out."
Laura: So if the treasure looked different this time, it might stop and talk about it?
Matt: He stops for a second. "Maybe."
Laura: I'm curious because I know you said you are lacking in gold and treasure. What will entice the beast?
Matt: "Hm. Beyond that, I don't really know. That's what is forcing our hand right now."
Laura: What if we had a way of providing some gold? And maybe you provide an offering of a different kind? What if you say that your father Kevdak had been plotting against the dragon and you found out about it. Would you be able to offer his body and the body of his allies as tribute to the dragon?
Matt: "Huh."
Laura: Dragons are vain.
Matt: And you do know specifically white dragons, or sorry, black dragons, they're very cruel by nature. They actually enjoy messing with creatures they see below them, especially intended prey, torturing for extended periods of time before killing. They aren't comparatively as vain as other dragons per se, but all chromatics fall in some way shape or form on that same scale of self-love to the point of being a near-disease to many of them. Zanror thinks to himself for a second and goes, "We can certainly try. I mean, I've got no more use for it, though it's going to be hard to convince it without a head. I'm pretty sure Grog took that with him."
Laura: Well, we may be able to get that back. How are you planning on hiding your fellow warriors from the dragon so as not to attract its attention? Because we may have some ideas.
Matt: "We'll have to share ideas. Ours was to go ahead and plod up Gatshadow. Usually it's about noon when it comes down for the offering. We leave it what little we have left, possibly lose two men in the process of delivering it, and then when it returned to its place we'd be there waiting to ambush it once it returned, use that time when it was gone to go ahead and hole up inside its home."
Laura: Okay.
Matt: "That was our intent."
Marisha: We might be able to do one better.
Laura: A dragon's lair is not--
Marisha: Especially a black dragon's lair.
Laura: We wouldn't do much damage to it there, in fact, it's probably laid several traps against us already.
Matt: "Well, there's not much we can really do when we're all fighting with our fucking axes and swords, can we? In the lair at least it's stuck on the ground."
Laura: What if we could trap it onto the ground here?
Matt: "How do you intend to do that?"
Laura: We have a wonderful tinkerer. Quite talented. And he's creating something to trap the dragon.
Matt: "Really."
Laura: Plus we can provide several chains. Once it's on the ground, maybe your very strong goliaths could try to snare it, grappling-hook it, throw some chains up and over?
Marisha: This pile of weapons you have here, I see a decent amount of javelins. A rudimentary harpoon, in the hands of some of your strongest, could help wrangle him down.
Matt: He stops for a second and goes, "I just want to be clear we don't underestimate the sheer size, strength, and ferocity of this beast. With all 20 men, we might be able to hold it down, I don't know how long. I hope that contraption your friend is making is strong enough to aid us that last little bit, because I get the feeling that if our might is put to just keeping it on the ground-- well, that's a lot less of our strengths that we could be tending to. A lot less blades we could put into its hide."
Laura: Well, hopefully it would only be needed for a small amount of time before our magic users have their way with it.
Marisha: About that time I light up my hands.
Matt: "That's impressive. You know what else is impressive? Watching four of my friends melt in a matter of seconds."
Marisha: That is very impressive. You're not wrong.
Matt: "I just want to instill with you an understanding not to be brash, not to go ahead and run into this unless you're absolutely certain. Now. I've got chains, you've got chains. We've got strong men. If we put ourselves intent on just holding this beast down, I have the feeling, even with our weight behind it, it's going to be a difficult attempt. Do we have any other way of anchoring it down, something else we can put the chains to?"
Marisha: About that time I walk over to the-- is there a stone wall in here?
Matt: I mean, there are pieces of stone building in the vicinity.
Marisha: I put my hand against the stone and I cast Transmute Rock and I push my hand into the stone as it turns to mud.
Laura: And now turn it back, Keyleth.
Marisha: I take a spear that's on the floor, stick it in, and then turn it back.
Matt: All right. Let me look this up real fast.
Marisha: See? Magic. (laughter)
Marisha: Put my hand underneath the spear. Put my hand over the spear.
Laura: Ah? Ah? No strings!
Marisha: Where is it, where is it?
Matt: Yeah, mud to rock, yeah. Lasts for-- it's instantaneous. So when he looks at that, he goes, "So. What you're saying is if we can find a few places in which the rock is close to the surface, you could lock these chains in?"
Marisha: I think I could lock the whole dragon in.
Laura: Once it's on the ground, if we can pull it down enough, she may be able to lock its legs into the stone.
Marisha: Beyond that, if that fails-- And then I cast, for right now I'll just do Wall of Stone, I'm just burning through all my spells as a demonstration. And I bring up two pillows. Two pillows?
Ashley: And then we all lay down and go to sleep!
Sam: Pillow fight! (laughter)
Liam: Billy Mays here for the Ashari Tribe!
Matt: "Goose down. Unexpected tactic."
Laura: I like how we're walking through all of these ideas and none of it's going to work when we get there.
Marisha: I blast up two pillars, right next to Kevdak.
Matt: Not next to Kevdak. You mean Zanror?
Marisha: Sorry, sorry. Sorry, the other big goliath leader.
Sam: Whatever your name is.
Matt: That one, ohmygod.
Marisha: And trap him in.
Matt: Okay, you (rumbles). Warra's pushed to the side as the stone shoots up.
Marisha: (whispers) Sorry, Warra, sorry. So-- I know! Did not mean to lay a hand.
Matt: "All right, your point is made. We've got two others who can do similar magic as you, maybe not the same level, but--"
Marisha: Fantastic.
Matt: "Want us to put them at your aid?"
Marisha: That would be wonderful. Beyond that, in prep, I can dig a trench, hidden underground around our trap, so that whenever we're ready, your army can bust out of the ground.
Laura: Surprise.
Marisha: Without being seen.
Matt: "Without being seen, what, are we going to bury my men?"
Laura: Very lightly.
Marisha: Pretty much. To be fair, I actually did it on a trap to kill like eight of your men on the way in and it worked phenomenally. So you should trust me.
Laura: It was pretty great.
Marisha: It worked well.
Matt: "I think we'll take our chances above ground, please."
Laura: The only thing I'm worried about, Zanror, is that if this ugly beast flies in and sees, oh, how many of your men do you have?
Matt: "Currently we're sitting at 25 total, including myself."
Laura: 25 men standing around. Don't you think it's going to be a little curious as to why all of the sudden-- all of a sudden? There's a large number of people around, that's never been there before?
Matt: "You're asking me this, our plan was to go inside while it was out. But if you want us there, let's figure out a way to hide, then. I don't think my men are going to like to be underground."
Marisha: It'll be very spacious. It'll be a nice big tunnel, it's not going to feel like you're buried alive.
Matt: "And what, they just leap out one by one through an opening?"
Laura: It'll be super shallow. Just enough that they can come on up and out.
Marisha: It'll be awesome, it will look like they're coming out of the grave. They'll look like badasses!
Matt: "I don't think that's going to really get a dragon shaking in its claws, y'know?" (sighs)
Laura: Not a lot is going to get a dragon shaking in its claws.
Matt: "Let me talk to my men. We'll see what we can do, we can muster as far as these chains go."
Laura: A surprise attack is going to be one of our best shots at grounding this thing.
Matt: "So, am I to tell my men we're going to bury them in the ground?"
Marisha: Not bury them, that sounds so dramatic when you say it like that, I mean I'm going to make a tunnel, there'll be stairs, they'll be able to walk freely, they'll have air holes, it'll be just like when you moved through the sewers to not be seen.
Matt: "I'll talk to them. I certainly hope your magic stone-shaping is as strong as it is. At the very first moment that dragon looks like it's going to go ahead and break free, we're weapons out. You do understand that."
Marisha: We would appreciate that, actually.
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: We want it to land, then we strike. We just want it to hit the fucking ground.
Matt: "Okay. And what's our bait? You say you have some gold to give?"
Laura: Some gold to give.
Matt: "Try for Kevdak's corpse-- I hope that's enough. I'll see what else we've got left in our coffers." He turns around and him and Warra walk away, a couple of the men join them and they--
Marisha: Oh, I actually-- I go over to Warra real quick before she walks away? Just to her side, and say, you look well. Have the Seers told you if it's going to be a boy or a girl yet?
Matt: "Not yet. But if we survive this, I have a feeling I'll know. The strength and glory of this fight will confirm."
Marisha: If you survive this fight, I'm pretty sure you'll bear the strongest child anyone has ever known.
Laura: The stallion that mounts the world, for sure.
Liam: There it is, there it is. It's in all our heads.
Matt: Nothing ever goes wrong when that title comes up. (laughter)
Matt: What could possibly go wrong? She looks over her shoulder at Zanror as he's walking away and goes, "Could be." And she just turns and starts walking with him.
Laura: So we really need to dig a trench.
Marisha: Yeah. I'm going to start digging a trench.
Laura: Around the area that the treasure is going to be.
Marisha: How far is it?
Matt: You guys scope it out, it's northwest of the town, you saw it on the way in, and it's very easy to make out at this point because there have been large claw-marks in the ground, there are broken pieces of wood, there's a shattered cart, there's some barrels that are partially destroyed to the side, there's a little bit of leftover ends and pieces that fell out of whatever it picked up as it took off as well as a smattering of copper, silver, and gold pieces that you rummaged through before when you first came to the town. But there's a definitive place that you recognize where this drop point is, it's out in the open in the field, there's going to be a couple of nearby rocks, a handful of trees, but they're all very sparse and spread apart. Other than that, it's just open field, so.
Marisha: How far away is the nearest tree cluster?
Matt: To that, it's about-- tree cluster? I mean, most of the trees that are here are singular, there's two trees that are within ten feet of each other and that's maybe 80 feet away from it.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: When you dig the trench, can I use my perception and my ranger ability to camouflage things and make sure that from above the ground, from the height that the dragon will be looking at it, that it's not seeable at all? I don't want this trap to be seen-- I guess I should wait until we find out if Percy finishes his trap and gets it in place to do all of this.
Matt: You can do that if you'd like to. Yeah, as far as the camouflage ability--
Laura: I know Hide in Plain Sight is for myself, but I feel like as a ranger I'd be able to hide tracks and stuff.
Matt: I'll say we can certainly give you--
Laura: We can use a little Dust of Tracelessness or something?
Matt: We can make something function a little bit there, you know, illusion magic is also helpful. If you have anything illusion-based that could even just help tidy up before. You do know that dragons are very perceptive creatures and are very-- are not very trusting either. They're paranoid. That is part of their narcissism, so anything you can use, whether it be illusion, camouflage, anything to hide any sort of possible chance of it not trusting this scenario you're going to want to do, otherwise this thing might fly overhead and notice one thing and be like ah, peace! So. Be warned. Miss Dragon Specialist.
Liam: That was all knowledge in your head.
Laura: I know all of these things! All of a sudden!
Marisha: Did he just say dragons have really high perception so don't fuck with anything and make it look weird?
Laura: No, he said if we're going to do it, make sure it is hidden.
Marisha: Right. Make it look real good. Right.
Travis: Can I go up to some of the guards outside and say, oi. Where do you keep your prisoners, hostages, meat shields?
Matt: I mean, there are no real guards of Westruun anymore, most of the guards that--
Travis: I meant like the goliath, the Herd guards.
Matt: Yeah, the Herd guards. They're a little sparse right now, there aren't any towards the outside of town, most of them are gathering towards the center as the rest of the folks are leaving the town, finding their way out south of Westruun to be away from the battle. But you do find in the Margrave center, similar area to where they were talking to Zanror, there are gathering warriors that are getting their weapons ready, some of them armoring up to just see how easily they can get it on, some of them might even sleep in their armaments, it's not a huge thing. But as you approach and ask this question, one of them turns to you and goes, "Well, there's-- the Iron Stocks is where we generally keep our prisoners. The ones who were before and the few we did keep, well, those we chained up or executed, but there were a few that were thrown in there."
Travis: Are there any still in there? Or are they all clear?
Matt: "Oh, there's plenty of prisoners still in there, we didn't touch the prison, mostly."
Travis: Hm. All right, thank you. (whispers) What was Reginald's daughter's name?
Laura: I don't know if I wrote it down.
Sam: I wrote it down.
Travis: I'd like to make my way over to the Iron Stocks.
Matt: Okay. And you've been here before, you know the Iron Stocks, although you weren't sure if it was being used as still a prison. And seemed loosely, just throwing a handful of people in for use later on that never quite came to fruition.
Marisha: I don't know her name either. We might not have known a name.
Travis: I thought we knew her name. Reginald's daughter's name?
Matt: Do you remember her name?
Travis: Are you asking me?
Marisha: What Sam wrote, he just wrote down 'Reginald's daughter'.
Sam: Maybe he never told us her name.
Matt: (laughs) All right, you make your way to the Iron Stocks. And it is currently unguarded, there is nobody there, the Herd has lost interest in it, the door's partially ajar, and as you walk inside you can already smell the place just reeks of refuse and decay. It looks like everything left in the middle of a workday. There are still ledgers open on the front desk, you can see what looks to be a small group of-- a barracks-type scenario to the left of the entrance that is just completely abandoned and looks like some cases are left open, scattering various keepsakes and bottles that are shattered on the ground, a lot of people left either to go into battle to defend against the dragon, to lose their life in it, or just to get the hell out of Dodge.
Travis: Can I walk up to the ledger and pretend to read it?
Matt: Yeah. You pick it up and leaf through for a few pages, lotta great squiggles.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Some pretty handwriting, you can tell--
Travis: Any squiggles that look familiar?
Matt: Um, no. No, none that-- I mean, some look familiar, some are more rounded--
Travis: Oh, this poor bastard right here, yep, I remember him, good chap. Hello? Is anyone in here?
Matt: There's a slight pause. Then you hear a voice echo from the right side of the room, down a hall just through the stone, you can barely make it out because the distance it's at, because you're hearing the echo protrude from quite a distance, but a voice just says, "Hey! Hey! In here! Need food please!"
Travis: Oh, shit. So I go in that direction. Open the door and try and make my way that way.
Matt: You charge down the hallway and there are a number of cells that are immediately here. Some of them are open and abandoned entirely, there are a few that you look off to the side, looks like a few individuals just passed away inside the cell. You come to a set of stairs that leads down into the next subterranean region and you hear the voice again, much closer, be like, "Hey! Hey! I hear your footsteps!" And you see a hand reaching out from behind some of the bars.
Travis: Put your hand back inside.
Matt: The hand retracts as you look over.
Travis: That's a good lad. What's your name? Before I approach. Still far enough away.
Matt: "Ah. Orn. Orn Finch at your service. Been in here far too long and very thirsty. I will be happily at your service, fair muscled man, should you see fit to relinquish me from these binds." And you look at him, he looks like a lowly beggar, longish tattered hair, wearing just general tattered and soiled clothing, no shoes, feet look blistered and black.
Travis: Ugh. I'm going to call you Orn Blackfoot.
Matt: "Blackfoot it is, Orn Blackfoot at your service, if you could just--"
Travis: My name is Lord Grog.
Matt: "Lord. It is my pleasure." And he reaches through and grasps your hand, his fingers are bony and thin, and he takes it and shakes it with what little strength he has.
Travis: Man, you are looking a little rispy-- Pour out a little ale into a goblet, and I give him a goblet of ale.
Matt: He snatches it from you and slurps into it, extremely thirsty.
Travis: Ah-ah, not too fast, not too fast, don't want to get the bubbles. And I reach into the Bag of Holding and I have a dry food ration. I have three left. Now I have two. And I give him some dried food ration.
Matt: He takes it and eagerly starts jamming it into his mouth. As he's eating, he's not even talking at you, this is just sheer hunger, the need to survive has taken over and he's just cramming it in there, choking a couple of times, keeping himself okay.
Travis: Pace yourself, lad. Tell me, why are you in here, Orn Blackfoot?
Matt: "Ah, well, this is-- everyone just started yelling and they abandoned us all here. It's been terrible hearing the moans and screams going silent. I thought they abandoned us all."
Travis: No, they did, to be clear. They totally abandoned you. You are really the only person I know of that's in here. All the other mates around you, they're either sleeping or, you know.
Matt: "I appreciate the food and drink, you've certainly done--" At which point a voice comes from about two cells over behind you that goes-- "Did I hear food and drink?"
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: "Food-- food and drink, please. Please."
Travis: Orn, did you kill all those dried food rations just now, did you just--
Matt: You see him very discreetly pocket some in his robe. "Oh, everything you gave me is gone, I'm sorry, friend."
Travis: Man, what an appetite. Do you mind regurgitating a little like a momma bird into my hand?
Matt: "What?"
Travis: Never mind. Orn, don't, heh, don't move. And I walk over to see where the other voice is coming from.
Matt: Okay. As you turn around the way, there is the next set of bars, you see behind there a man in his forties, also extremely thin and gaunt, reddish long thin beard, long unkempt brownish red hair that is just crimped up around the base of it, like it's just gone almost into dreadlock territory from how long he's been in there and mistreated. You can see dried blood at the corner of his mouth. He looks up at you. "Sir, if you would be s-- Grog?" And the moment of recognition hits you, this is Abjurist Noja, whom you previously-- (yelling)
Travis: Abjurist is a very powerful-- he has knowledge of the arcane and stuff, right, he was--
Laura: He was the guy who saved us! He saved us when the white dragon came to Westruun.
Liam: I was frozen in ice. That guy!
Travis: I found us Boba Fett, sweet!
Matt: He looks pretty wrecked right now.
Laura: Oh shit, give him food, Grog!
Travis: Abjurist Nosebleed, hold on real quick, look. And I take the other, the second to last dry food ration, I give him that, and I give him a thing of ale, I'm like, I'm sorry, it's really dry.
Matt: "Thank you, friend, thank you very much."
Travis: Oh, yeah, you're very welcome! Hold on. Is there anybody else in this hallway before I give away my last bit of food?
Matt: You hear two voices simultaneously down the end of the hallway come in, one of which is a very weak female voice, the other is a very loud kind of-- "Hey, bring me food this way, please!" The other one is like, "Please, I ask of you, I'm starving." And you see these two hands come out of the two cells in the distance.
Travis: Right, I'm going to pick a number between one and ten. Ready? Go.
Matt: There's an awkward pause. "Three?" "Seven! Definitely seven!"
Travis: I lean over to Abjurist Noja, I say, I actually don't know any numbers, so. Y'know what, we're going to deliberate and we'll be with you in just a moment. (whispers) Abjurist, how old y--, why are you in here, who put you in here?
Matt: "I've only been in here for about a week. Got in an altercation in my store when these brutes started walking in. Threw me in here, didn't even let me take my spellbook."
Travis: Oh, that is a crime. I love b-- I can't even say it. Hold on, stay right there, I'll get you out-- And I walk back to Orn Blackfoot, I go, look, hey, so I gave you food, can you do anything, like, special?
Matt: "What?"
Travis: Like, can you make your hands turn to flame, can you disappear, are you really good with a bow and arrow?
Matt: "No! No." And he reaches out and grabbing at your clothes though and starts pulling you--
Travis: Hey! Orn, chill!
Matt: "But I have friends in many places, though. I can, I can get you things. I can make connections--"
Travis: Yeah, but most of the people in here are dead, right, like they're probably not--
Matt: "Not even here, Emon! I can get you anything you need from Emon. I can get you from Stillben. And Lansway, just name it and get me out of here and I can--"
Travis: How long has it been since you've been to Emon?
Matt: "Few months?"
Travis: You got any loved ones there?
Matt: "Why?"
Travis: I don't know, just asking, like, do you want me to take a note from you to them or something, you know.
Matt: "No, if you can release me, I'd be more than happy to take it myself if you don't mind."
Travis: Yeah, no, I'm still deliberating, sorry. Enjoy the food that you snuck in your jacket pocket. And I go back towards the front desk area. And I try and find any-- is there a lever on the wall to release the cells or can I look for keys?
Matt: You-- make an investigation check.
Travis: Fuck me.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Your fate is in excellent hands. Oh shit, you're not dead! (laughter)
Travis: Minus two for a 17!
Matt: Ah! All righty. So. After spending the good part of an hour or so clamoring through, just throwing bookshelves over and (crashing) taking the desk and actually throwing it onto its back and pulling drawers out, this is Grog's method of investigation here, you're just--
Travis: Yeah, just trying some splinters of wood in the locks just in case.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. You break off a few forks in some locks.
Travis: (laughs) Forks, yeah.
Matt: In practice, yeah, whatever looks small enough and should fit, though it doesn't, but you make it fit. And it doesn't help. You do eventually find in one of the cells, closed and locked as you look by, there is one person in guard armor, in Westruun guard armor, that is in the cell. Not moving.
Travis: Hey. Hey, you. I kick him in the back a bit.
Matt: No movement.
Travis: I kick him harder.
Matt: No movement.
Travis: I look down the hallway. I back up a few steps. And I really run up and kick him really hard.
Matt: He just lurches over onto the side. Not moving.
Travis: Yeah, you're dead. Can I pat him down?
Matt: Yeah, you reach in and you can smell the decay starting to set in. And as you get close you can reach through the bars and see him, the actual area is closed and the door appears to be locked, and inspecting the body very quickly you can see that he was stabbed multiple times from behind and probably left in here to bleed out.
Travis: Low perception.
Matt: But you do find on him what appears to be a ring of keys. Not directly on his body, but underneath the corpse, like he was-- you gather best you can, someone probably grabbed it, got their way out, used that moment to stab him and escape.
Travis: Nice! I take the keys and I jauntily run by Orn Blackfoot and I go to Abjurist-- Hey, do you know who those other two voices are at the end of the hallway? Like, did you have anyone with you when you got put in here?
Matt: "No, no one with me. Although-- been plenty of angry discussion from that dwarven fellow down the way."
Travis: Yeah, he's got a really rough accent.
Matt: "I can hear you!"
Travis: Shit. My voice carries. Are you all right here for one minute? I have to go perform an interview real fast.
Matt: "I'm all right." And he just finishes eating the little bit of the ration that you gave him, like dried meats and bread.
Travis: All right, sit tight. All right, you two, put both your hands outside the cell where I can see them.
Matt: They both put their hands out. The dwarven man you can see puts his hand out, the skin is very wrinkled and you can see the varicose veins on it, the arm hair that you see on the dwarven arm is white, like bright white. The female hand comes out is thin, but the skin looks a little softer and younger.
Travis: Female elven, or is this female--
Liam: The daughter.
Travis: Who said three?
Matt: At this point, the dwarf voice goes, (incoherent semi-cursing).
Travis: I know, look, it's always lucky number three, right? That's what they say. Who says that?
Matt: "Racist little-- peh!" And the arms just withdraw, and the woman, "That's me, that's me."
Travis: Oh good. Hi. You look nice.
Matt: Look down, you see a young woman, maybe in her late teens, early twenties, long brown hair, tangled, covering one half of her face. You can see the edges of her lips are cracked from just dryness and lack of moisture. She's wearing, both of them actually are wearing just these long, simple cloth drape-over robes that are just, y'know, for any prisoners in here that need to not be wearing their normal clothing.
Travis: I've got three other goblets left, can I both give them a goblet and some ale, just to wet their lips and get a drink in?
Matt: They eagerly take it and begin scarfing it down, the dwarf's like, "Oh! That's nothing!" You can look at the dwarf now, he's elderly, crotchety, half-blind, one clouded eye, but for being a man who's been stuck in prison and slowly dying, he's got this wry grin on him at all times.
Travis: You're turning away good ale. Looks like you've seen many a moon.
Matt: "You're telling me that. But no, seriously, that's like half full. Come on, don't be stingy!"
Travis: I like your gall. And I pour more ale in.
Matt: "That's the ticket!" It's like spilling on the sides and getting stuck in his bright, bushy white beard, and each bit that dribbles down, he goes-- catches it and then pushes it back in, not wasting a single drop.
Travis: Beautiful. If you don't mind, ladies first, love, what is your name? Why are you in here?
Matt: "It's Amelia. I was taken because they were-- the beasts were dealing with an uprising from some of us farm folk and, well, they took me as leverage in the argument. Stopped their-- stopped their arguing."
Travis: You're-- you're farm folk?
Matt: "Yeah."
Travis: Do you have any family?
Matt: "I do."
Travis: What are their names?
Matt: "There's my father Reginald."
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: Sorry, I had a bit of split pea soup that's just disagreeing with me, it's all right. Yep.
Matt: "Are they okay, have you seen them? Have you seen any of the people out there?"
Travis: No, I-- we should get you out of here, there's really bad stuff going on outside, we're trying to get everyone out of the town.
Matt: And you hear a voice down the way say, "Everyone out of the town? That sounds like a great plan." And the dwarf behind you is like, "Well then, get us out! I'm sick of this cell!"
Travis: Yeah, just a minute, hold on. And so like. Hold on. Can I try the keys on Amelia's cell?
Matt: Mm-hmm. You go through the keyring, which probably has a good 40 or so different keys on it.
Travis: Shit.
Matt: And so you go through one, two, three, four, yeah.
Liam: Six, six, six.
Matt: (laughs) And what would be the late teens, and for what to you seems like forever, one key does (squeaking) in the lock and it opens. She, who's been like sitting down the whole time, stands up weakly and grabs the bars and pulls herself up and waits for you to let her through if she does, just being patient.
Travis: Amelia, if you would, please stay with me. Funny, I believe I heard of a man named Reginald. Very brave. Not sure where he is, but we're going to get you out of the city, just stay put for a moment.
Matt: "Okay."
Travis: All right, you, you salty bastard, what's your name?
Matt: "Old Davin. What's your name?"
Travis: Lord Grog. Emphasis on the Lord.
Matt: "Lord Grog."
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Lord of?"
Travis: The Vales of Strongjaw.
Matt: "I'll take it, that's fine. Get me out, please?"
Travis: Right. Oh, keys. Can I take the keyring and can I pry the metal keyring-- is it like one solid piece or is it the kind that I could maybe bend it open?
Matt: I mean, it is one solid piece that has been looped twice, but it has been-- the iron itself has been bent around itself to make it nice and tight, form-fit on one end. Go ahead and make a strength check.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Ping. (laughs) Like, you were preparing yourself for a full pull, and with but a minor twitch of your muscles it just bends open.
Travis: Can I take half the keys and give them to Amelia and say, love, would you go and let out the kind gentleman with the reddish beard and the little blood on his mouth named Abjurist, would you try these keys and see if his cell will open? Not yet for Mr. Blackfoot across the way.
Matt: "Right. I will, I will." She rushes off and starts fumbling through the keys, and you hear in the distance her making her way through the keys as--
Travis: I take the other half and start trying to get Da-- what was his name?
Matt: Old Davin.
Travis: Old, I like old.
Laura: Have we met Old Davin?
Matt: You have not met Old Davin, no.
Travis: Okay. Davin, what did you get put in here for?
Matt: "Right if I know! Got real drunk and woke up in here, everyone started screaming and running away, and I'm like ahh, run away you pansies, and they did, ran away, they never came back. Some packed fire, but not a problem now." And yes, the one snowblind eye doesn't move at all, the other one glances around, that one's completely stuck in a forward position.
Travis: Is that magic?
Matt: "I mean, certainly gets the ladies."
Travis: Yeah, it does.
Matt: "But no, it's a reminder to not, well, to not mess with your people."
Travis: Oh. Well, I'm sorry to hear that. But they do make you look very young.
Matt: "Much worse, say I."
Travis: Now if we let you out of here, right, which we're actually in the process of doing, what is your weapon of choice?
Matt: "Oh, oh." And he thinks to himself for a moment. "I would have to say my weapon of choice would be Bloodvine ale. Aye."
Travis: Bloodvine ale?
Matt: "Aye, if we're picking poison, that's my favorite."
Travis: Yeah, no, my-- He's a dwarf, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah. Obviously we are brothers of the beard. Like, to fight with, right?
Matt: "Oh, that kills, eh?"
Travis: Yeah, stab, poke, enchant, whatever.
Matt: "Once upon a time I was quite a duelist, so if you got something pointy and prickling I can spear 'em with the best of them."
Travis: I do have a Greatsword of Frenzy, but it's a two-handed weapon.
Matt: "Ah, that's not my preference."
Travis: I do also have one regular, just a regular longsword. About the best I have.
Matt: "Yeah, that'll do, certainly, I'll take a longsword."
Travis: All right, so. Have I got the door open yet?
Matt: Not yet. But at this time there's an awkward pause and now you're like, don't have any more conversation. But you still have to finish the-- about a minute later, he's sitting there going, "Come on, come on, come on." Eventually-- tink!-- it opens up. "Yes!" And he pushes it open as you pull it open.
Travis: Before I give you this sword--
Matt: "Aye?"
Travis: --are you up for the fight of your life?
Matt: "Yes?"
Travis: Can I insight check him?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Travis: This is going to go really well. Eight! Nine!
Liam: Go Tarv, go Tarv.
Matt: He seems a little--
Sam: Scottish. (laughter)
Matt: He seems a little malnourished, and a little confused.
Travis: Right.
Matt: But nothing sets you off as untrustworthy.
Travis: Look, your expression says a lot. What if I put an excellent meal in your belly, sharpened that sword some more, would you like to fight for some glory come the morrow?
Matt: "Sure. Why not?"
Travis: That's what I thought. If you would go join Amelia, I have to get my good friend Abjurist Noja out of his cell and then we're going to go have a meeting, because there's going to be a big feast tonight, it's going to be delicious.
Matt: "Oh, great, I'll be there for that, aye. Where's it happening?"
Travis: You know, it's very secret, yep. Secret location, TBD.
Matt: "Right, right. I'll wait for you." And he walks out, taking the keys from you as he runs off toward Amelia.
Travis: Now, has she gotten Abjurist out?
Matt: At this point, yeah, Noja has stepped out of the cell and is putting an arm on her, you see he's actually having a hard time standing and she's helping support him, even though she's having a hard time standing. (Skype noise)
Matt: There goes Taliesin.
Travis: Man, I know a lot of people that are going to be really, really happy to see you.
Matt: "Ah. Really? Well, I'm very happy to see these people, anybody really, that're not the inside of this blasted prison." (coughs) (Skype rings)
Liam: Oh, get him, get him!
Laura: Quick, answer it!
Liam: Stupid tinkerer.
Sam: I'm trying, I'm trying!
Liam: Percival and his technology.
Matt: There we go. Welcome back.
Laura: Hi Percy.
Taliesin: Hi.
Travis: Could I ask you a question? So I have this new axe, right, it's really nice. I got it off the leader of goliaths, real prick. It's really strong and I've known about it for years, there's nothing, like, funny about-- Actually, if I give this to you, would you just tell me if you, like, hear anything?
Matt: "Ah, they took my spellbook when they threw me in here."
Travis: Oh.
Matt: "If we could find that, maybe I can help you."
Travis: That makes sense.
Matt: "Otherwise, I'm out of tricks, friend, sorry."
Travis: All right. I turn around to Orn Blackfoot and I'm like, "All right, mate. Last chance. Why should I let you out?"
Matt: "Because I can be a good friend and help you out. I can get you money and women and travel anywhere you wish."
Travis: I've done all three of those things more than most men do in three lifetimes.
Matt: "And you can have a fourth! Please, just let me out of here."
Travis: I'm thinking of a number between one and three.
Sam: He's not.
Matt: "Two."
Travis: Shit. (laughter)
Travis: That's like only one of a couple that I know. All right. You get to come out.
Matt: "Ah, wonderful. Thank you, thank you, thank you. And I'm a man of my word, don't you worry."
Travis: Can I insight check if he's a man of his word?
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Roll better. Shit fuck balls ass. Three.
Matt: Three. Seems legit. (laughter)
Travis: You have a face that is truly trustworthy. And I start looking for the key to his cell.
Matt: Okay. At this point, you've run through the ring enough, you can go ahead and take it from Old Davin. Over time you eventually get him free, and as soon as you do, he stretches, cracks his back a bit. "All right. Thank you kindly. So. Let's be off." And he charges up next to Noja and then breezes past them and you guys all exit the outside of the Iron Stocks.
Laura: Look for Noja's book, look for Noja's book.
Travis: Oh, yeah, well. Noja, Noja, is there a location where your spellbook was last? (belches)
Matt: "They took it from me when they arrested me. I don't know where they would have put it."
Travis: Yeah, well, goliaths are awfully fond of books. Let's go find out, shall we? And we go back towards where I guess everybody last was.
Matt: Okay. On the way there, Noja's like, "I do have one of my older spellbooks, wouldn't have all of my materials, but that would be back at my shop if we ever have a chance to stop by."
Travis: Well, we could go there now if you'd like.
Matt: "Certainly."
Travis: How far is it from here? I forget, it's been a few years.
Matt: "Oh, it's about-- just due east of where the temples are, about 25, 30 minutes up that way."
Travis: Hold that thought. I grab my earring and I say, can anybody hear me?
Sam: Can we?
Matt: At this point, yeah, the Stocks aren't too far. Whoever's--
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: What's up, Grog?
Travis: Right, so. What if I told you I found somebody's name that rhymes with Daburish Koja?
Liam: You found Dabney Coleman?
Laura: Dabdrist Cojo?
Travis: It's Abjurist Noja.
All: Oh!
Marisha: Man, I didn't realize 'til now how many people we actually know whose name rhymes with that.
Travis: Yeah, we're like really important.
Marisha: Yeah, we know a lot of people.
Travis: So I'm going to take him to find his spellbook, because I feel like he could be a great--
Taliesin: I don't recall this person.
Travis: You don't?
Marisha: Weren't you with us, Percy?
Matt: Yeah, Percy met him.
Taliesin: Was I?
Marisha: Yeah, remember the guy who saved us at the first Winter's Crest festival?
Taliesin: Oh yes, no, he was quite lovely.
Marisha: Yeah, he's very nice.
Travis: Yeah, I found him. I'm going to get him a spellbook. Does anybody want to come with, or are you all good?
Marisha: I'm about to dig a trench, so I'll pass.
Liam: Keyleth, where are you right now?
Marisha: Heading northeast towards, northwest, northwest. Sorry. It's noon, it's hard to tell in the sky right now. Northwest.
Laura: Are you with us, Pike?
Ashley: Yeah, yeah.
Laura: Pike's with us.
Ashley: I'm done attuning?
Matt: Yeah, the attunement takes about an hour or so, half an hour to an hour.
Ashley: Yeah, I just found you guys, just hanging out.
Laura: Hey, what's up. You want to help us clear some stuff?
Ashley: You need some help? Yeah, let me help you, I'm so strong.
Sam: Um, Grog, I can come with you, Grog, if you need some help.
Travis: Yes. The cube is always welcome.
Liam: My. Goodness. Gracious.
Travis: Please. It's more like a Coke can. Okay. Um.
Liam: A what?
Travis: What? So, Scanlan, if you want to come meet us, we're over by the Iron thing. How would I tell him where we are?
Matt: Iron Stocks, you can describe it to him and eventually he'll find his way there.
Travis: I'm over by this thing balalalala.
Sam: Excellent description, I'm on my way.
Matt: (laughs) And you've been to the town before, you guys have spent some time in Westruun, so you know the basics around. So you manage to meet up with these fellas and you make your way northward into the outskirts of Noja's shop. Noja's shop is untouched by the battle, it seems, still stands.
Marisha: Oh, shit. Really?
Matt: He walks up and the door's open and looks inside and just sighs heavily, as the interior of this place has been picked clean.
Marisha: Ah, son of a fucking-- looters!
Sam: Noja, were there any hidden compartments or secret safes where you kept the good stuff?
Matt: "Well. Follow me." And he heads towards the back of the shop, heads into a room in the side which contains his bed and his personal setup. That door's kicked in, there was a lock on it, the lock's still hanging as part of the door contraption as the actual door was just kicked inward and the wood splintered and left open. He steps inside, feels above the doorway. There's a panel of wood that he pulls aside and brings out. There is a singular book, where he pulls it out and sighs, blows dust off it. "Ah, this is a bit rudimentary for what I require, but it's something, it's better than nothing." Puts it aside, manages to find some pieces of his clothing that have been tossed onto the floor as a heap or, you know, raiding the room and gets out of his prison robes and puts them over that to just go ahead and not be as tattered as he looked. He does pull what looks like a small jug from it and sets that aside, and he looks around his room, (sighs) "I guess let's see if there's anything in the shop that still remains." Steps around the way. Oof. All right. Yeah, most everything of worth appears to have been taken or broken.
Laura: Search around, help him search!
Travis: Yeah, is there anything we can help you find that you're looking for?
Matt: "Anything intact, really."
Travis: Yeah, can we help him look for any vials, or--
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Better. 17.
Sam: 16.
Matt: 16, okay. Looking around, most everything is ruined, destroyed, or missing, however you do find what looks to be two unspoiled, undestroyed vials that were part of a display set that has been tossed over the side. Most of the fluid contained in these vials, like corks have been left open, glass and crystal have been shattered, and the contents had just stained the floor and dried over time into little sticky pools of different colors. You do find two, one of which is a yellowish fluid that's streaked with black swirls, and there is one that it's like a clear liquid that has a-- the liquid itself fills the vial and then shrinks down to a tiny bead and then expands again to fill the vial, like a very, very slow heartbeat. Those are the two that you find.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Yellow with black swirls, and then a clear potion that--
Sam: Oh, he'll just tell us, I assume. Sir, we're about to embark on a deadly adventure to try to clear this town so that you can once again live here safely. Might we trouble you to borrow these potions if they can be in some way helpful to us?
Matt: "You've done me great service by getting me out of that hellhole. You are welcome to take these with you for now. I guess I have to start from scratch..."
Sam: Do you know what they are?
Matt: "Oh, yes, I'm sorry, I'm sorry." And he takes the vials and looks at them. "Ah, this is a Potion of Diminution. It shrinks you to a smaller size."
Sam: Oh, I could be small! Oh, wait.
Matt: "It only lasts for a few hours, depending, the magic isn't perfect, but it does make you smaller. This other one, this vial contains a liquid that will make you quite speedier. It will increase your metabolism for a short time, the world around you seems to slow, it's quite effective."
Sam: Thank you so, so much.
Travis: Yeah actually, have you ever seen this shrinking potion work, like, how small does something get?
Matt: "Pretty small. Like, if on your size--" And he makes a shape of about that big.
Sam: So teeny-tiny.
Matt: "For you, yes. For you, you'd be about his size."
Travis: That would be the best thing ever. Now that you've found-- I'm sorry, go ahead.
Sam: No no no. This is most helpful. Do you know anywhere also around here where we might pick up some chains, hooks, spears, javelins?
Matt: "Ah, those are not my forte, my apologies."
Sam: All right.
Marisha: Should've took those from the prison.
Matt: "I mean, check a general goods store, perhaps?"
Sam: Oh no, this is so helpful, thank you, let me go get those.
Matt: So here are your potions.
Travis: That book that you got, it's not your favorite, right, the one that was hidden above the door?
Matt: "No, no, but it'll do, at least. Do you wish me to inspect that weapon for you?"
Travis: Yeah, would you mind? I've never done that before, but the last one I had talked to me.
Matt: "That's... unsettling. That's very unsettling."
Travis: Yeah, among other things.
Matt: The dwarf and the woman are still waiting at the door, they've picked through things and they're finding bits of broken glass and over time they can't find anything else. He takes the hour to rest and regains, after some quick preparation, the use of at least his Identify spell. Takes the axe, holds it for a moment, chants some incantation that you don't understand. There's a brief glow on the weapon, and around the outskirts of his fingers, a brief glow around his temples. As it fades, he goes, "Hm. Well, if what you worry about is the presence of some sort of sentience, I can assure you, you need not worry. This is merely a tool, and a powerful one at that." And he begins to tell you what it does, which is exactly what you already know after attunement.
Travis: No long card coming? (laughs)
Matt: No.
Travis: Son of a bitch. Thank you, Abjurist, you are as wise as you are. Old.
Marisha: Old? (laughs)
Matt: "I'm only 48, but thank you."
Travis: That's lost on me. Do you need anything else?
Sam: Oh, oi, oi, I was just-- I'm enthralled by these potions, they're fantastic, and I'm enthralled and so happy that we met you again and all that. I totally remembered who you were. (laughter)
Matt: "It's good to see that you're all doing fine, considering the circumstances. Stay safe. I'll pick up what pieces I can."
Sam: Should you get-- should we tell him to get out of the city or fight with us?
Travis: Well, I was going to ask, you do know what is beset upon this city, right? The horrible calamity that's coming?
Matt: "I saw the dragon tear through, yes."
Sam: We aim to finish the dragon, maybe even tomorrow, and make Westruun free once again. Would you have any interest in aiding us in this fight, or are you past the point of putting up a brave battle?
Matt: And you see him standing there, even just standing here this time, his knees are wobbling a bit, and he goes, "I'm afraid I wouldn't be of much aid at this moment without my proper spellbook. I have a few child's treats at my disposal." And he sifts through a few pages and he seems to-- the book looks like it's pretty old, like probably his training manual when he first began to study as a practitioner of the magical arts. "I don't know how much use I'd be, unfortunately."
Travis: The day's still young. What say we give, like, a solid effort to finding your bigger books, and then if you can't find it and you can lend no aid to us, we'll make sure you find yourself safely on your way?
Matt: "All right. All right, fair enough. Well come, let us look. Perhaps we should give another once-over of the rather seemingly destroyed interior of that prison."
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Looks like Amelia and Old Davin have nothing else better to do, they begin to aid you for a bit, although Amelia is eager, and mentions the possibility of going and checking in on the farmsteads on the outside of town.
Marisha: Yeah. About that.
Matt: Orn? Orn Blackfoot? Gone.
Marisha: Yeah, figured that much.
Matt: He has peaced.
Travis: He left.
Matt: Yeah. You guys take a moment, and when you start deciding what to do, and you look around and he's just gone.
Sam: I thought you had him.
Travis: I thought you had him. I clearly said when you came up, watch the guy with the black feet. What'd you do?
Sam: I was watching you, you have disgusting black feet. You walk around barefoot, you're disgusting.
Travis: I really can't argue with that. (laughter)
Travis: Well. Whatever. I saved a life, go me. I'll take it later. Yeah, so can we go back to the prison, not to take away from everything else, and maybe look for chains, like some hooks, maybe some broken bars?
Matt: Yeah. The two of you guys, make one more investigation check, this'll signify the next few hours of looking for the things you want.
Laura: Oh god, roll really good.
Sam: 22.
Travis: 19.
Matt: Between the two of you, working into and past dusk, you manage to acquire quite a number of chains. It's funny, a prison seems to have a lot at their disposal. They have a queue of chains that are used of various lengths, some of them may have to be put together to make the length of which you're looking for, but between ramshackle manacles to just lengths of chain that are used to opening gates and used to seal elements of the subterranean portion of this prison, you manage to acquire quite a bit. You do, towards the end of the evening, manage to find partially destroyed remnants of Noja's spellbook. He seems a little disappointed as soon as he sees the state it's in, a lot of the pages have been burnt and torn out of these--
Travis: I am sorry.
Matt: "Ah, it's all right, there are some here that are of use to me. And if I can be of any assistance tomorrow in this fray, hopefully at a distance-- How big is this dragon, you said?"
Travis: Oh, it's like seven feet.
Matt: "Oh, well then I can definitely be of help there, not a worry, all right. I'll prepare myself best I can."
Travis: Yeah. We'll make sure, we'll keep you on the outsides with those that are not, you know, can't take a good walloping.
Sam: Do you have any healing potions or anything, or I mean, I'm sorry, healing spells?
Matt: "That's not my specialty, I fear, and the potions I had are now soaking in the floorboards of my humble shop."
Travis: Not that I would understand, but could you tell us what your specialty is?
Matt: "Abjuration, of course. That's the school of magic of which my--" (laughs)
Sam: I'm familiar with that.
Travis: Abjur--yeah. Mm-hmm. No idea what that means.
Liam: Like Claymation.
Travis: Oh, like puppets. I'm a big fan of puppets.
Sam: All right, well, we'll get some rest, try to put the pieces of your place back together.
Matt: "I will. Come to me when the time is ready to face this fiend, this foul creature, and I'm happy to help."
Sam: Good night.
Travis: Oh yeah, we should probably make him a part of the feast.
Sam: Oh. All right.
Travis: We'll come get you later tonight.
Matt: "All right."
Liam: I'm going to track down the women after talking to them over the earring.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Straight from Percival, once I catch sight of them, can I talk to you for a minute?
Marisha: Sure.
Liam: Just a minute, I know you're busy. Um.
Laura: She's super busy, brother!
Liam: Yeah, two minutes. Two minutes. Um.
Laura: So busy.
Liam: Thanks, Stubbs. You're way more powerful than I am, and I don't know what I'm going to-- (Skype noise)
Sam: God dammit.
Liam: What's that sound?
Marisha: So many noises happening.
Liam: You're going to be doing a lot more damage than I am tomorrow, it's not like I'm going to run up and stab the thing in the back. I feel like you're probably going to be too busy to be using Fassbender--
Marisha: Yeah, do you want Fassbender? I was actually going to offer him to you, 'cause I feel like you might--
Liam: I think I want to be of use, so yeah.
Marisha: I'm pretty sure you don't have to worry about that.
Laura: (gagging)
Liam: So it just goes on the head, then how does it work, what do you, what do I talk to it or do I think it or what do I do?
Marisha: So you give it a command, it takes your full concentration to give it a command, and then once you do that it will enact that plan until it's complete or until you tell it otherwise.
Liam: All right.
Marisha: And if you wanted to cast a Slow spell, just, you have to focus and tell it to do that.
Liam: Okay. Do I say like, slow?
Marisha: You know, I don't know. Just wing it. I kept talking to him like it was a person and I don't think that's necessarily the way to go.
Liam: Maybe I'll prac-- where did you park him?
Marisha: It's still in Scanlan's mansion.
Liam: Oh.
Laura: Is that still there?
Sam: Yes?
Matt: Well, based on the time that spell was cast, the 24-hour duration has expired. All things in the mansion have been jettisoned from the doorway.
Laura: Including your grandad!
Marisha: So he's in Wilhand's house, with Wilhand.
Liam: Great, well, I'll take that.
Marisha: Yeah. Hopefully Wilhand's watching over him right now, actually.
Sam: It might have destroyed the house.
Marisha: It might've destroyed Wilhand's house. Yeah.
Liam: Kiki.
Marisha: Yes? (Skype noises)
Liam: What is that?
Marisha: This is the weirdest field. (Taliesin makes noises on Skype) (laughter)
Liam: Percy. Tinker quietly, please. (Taliesin makes louder noises on Skype) (laughter)
Liam: I think he's eating popcorn, or maybe opening a butterscotch candy in the theater.
Taliesin: I can't even see you guys, are you like?
Laura: Oh, he went away! Aw, this is just not--
Liam: Okay, really quickly.
Laura: Okay. Well, at least he started.
Marisha: Yes? This seems to happen all the time, every time we try to talk to each other. I don't think I've really, continue, continue. It's hard to have a conversa--
Taliesin: Hi.
Matt: Continue, please.
Liam: Hello, yeah, Percival, I'll talk to you in a minute, all right?
Marisha: Shut up, Percy. Thank you.
Liam: Ah. I've been confused. I am confused. But. And I take her by the hand.
Liam: It wasn't fair, last week. It wasn't fair to you. And I'm sorry.
Marisha: What are you talking about?
Liam: In your room, in your room. Me leaving wasn't--
Marisha: When you left me, right--
Liam: --wasn't fair.
Marisha: Yeah, no, that I remember. Yeah, that. Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.
Liam: That's it. I'm sorry.
Marisha: I'm sorry if I dropped that on you, and put any more undue stress, that's not what I want--
Liam: This is awful, all of it is awful.
Marisha: This is awful. Yeah, no, this is pretty bad. You know, I've actually been wanting to talk to you. I wasn't entirely planning on now. I know you've been struggling. I know you feel like you're drowning, and I'm sorry that the Raven Queen chose you, but she did choose you. You know, as druids, I was raised to have an interesting perspective on the gods. We are taught that nature is the one true powerful force. I have yet to see a god control the sunrise and the sunset, so therefore it's hard for me to sometimes have the same faith in these gods. Personally, I believe that just because you're immortal doesn't make you infallible. These gods can be great ambassadors of their virtues and what they represent, or they can be horrible disgraces to their domains. And just because some self-proclaimed person or deity decides that they want control? Doesn't mean that they have to have control over me. Now, this does not mean that I do not respect the gods and the power that they wield, but, I mean, for the love of Sarenrae, we have seen Pike do many a powerful thing. So, therefore, I do not respect the gods any more than I respect the living people who are standing beside me at this moment. So I've also been coming to terms with the fact that it seems that, whether we like it or not, we are going to have to employ their services. Looks like we're going to have to be working with them in some way or another, myself included, if we are going to overcome this. So maybe you should start rethinking the way you look at your relationship to the Raven Queen. Maybe this can be a fine partnership. A fine endeavor to do with her, and then once we save the world and we retire and some other young prodigies come forward to save the world again, then we can thank her for her services and move on. I don't think we'll always need her. I don't think you will always need her. And, keep in mind, the one true thing that gives these gods their power are their worshipers. So I guess I'll let you choose what you want to be. And I walk off to catch up with the ladies.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Did you guys make out? Was it really fun? Lots of making out there?
Marisha: Vax. Vex. Vex.
Laura: I understand you have him on your mind. You can't get our names straight.
Marisha: You know, I was talking to him, so-- Hey. I love you a whole lot.
Laura: Do you still think you're talking to my brother?
Marisha: I know who I'm talking to.
Liam: Really similar.
Sam: She's the ranger.
Ashley: Did you ask him if he's going to help us?
Marisha: Who? Vax? Oh.
Ashley: Vax. Is he going to help dig the trench?
Laura: I turn around and see him. Is he just standing there?
Matt: Just standing there lost in thought, yeah.
Laura: Um, hey.
Liam: What?
Laura: Hey, what are you doing? Are you coming to help us, or are you just standing in the middle--
Liam: Yeah, we gotta kill a dragon tomorrow. We gotta kill a dragon. What do you need?
Laura: Do you want to help build, I don't know, a trench? Set a trap?
Liam: I mean, I'm really weak, but I think I can use a shovel.
Laura: What time is it? We haven't even started digging the trench yet? What fucking time is it?
Marisha: It'll take me like an hour. It's fine. What time is it?
Matt: For you guys, at this point, it'd probably be mid-afternoon, late afternoon. Percy. I need you to go ahead and make three tinkering checks for me, if you don't mind.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Matt: The first one is using your intelligence modifier.
Taliesin: That's intelligence modifier plus proficiency bonus plus tinkering?
Matt: Well, proficiency bonus is what you get with tinkering.
Taliesin: Yeah. 24. (cheering)
Matt: All right, so, initial designs and describing with your lackeys, for lack of a better term, that are helping you develop these springs, you manage to explain, lay out, and develop the proper materials, the process, and they seem to acknowledge and understand what you're trying to do, and you guys begin the work. Second check is going to be with your dexterity modifier.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, baby.
Sam: No one can help him on these things?
Laura: We're not there.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: You spend the better part of the day helping them take the metal, strengthen it, bind it, pulling it into the springs that are required. You complete one, you get partway through the second one. Make a final check if you don't mind.
Travis: With dex?
Matt: This is also with dex, yeah.
Laura: Come on.
Taliesin: That's 23.
Matt: 23?
Taliesin: Yeah, it's the dexterity, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: So yeah, that's right, 23.
Matt: 23. As the evening comes into about ten or 11 o'clock at night, after hours of aching work, sweat beads dripping down the foreheads of the three of you, forcing the furnace to work overtime. The room's heat and darkness eventually almost puts you to a point of exhaustion and passing out. However, you do manage to complete the springs. They seem to be functional, the structure of your trap is set. We shall see on the morrow if it is as functional as you hope it is. You do take a point of exhaustion through the work that will consist throughout the next day.
Taliesin: Okay. What does a point of exhaustion do?
Matt: Disadvantage on ability checks. So, essentially, any skill checks or ability checks you make-- not attacks or saves, but ability checks you make for the next 24 hours will be at disadvantage.
Laura: Did he work all the way through the night?
Matt: No, this is just the physical activity involved in getting it done in that short period of time.
Taliesin: Just double-checking, because I have no brain currently, dice roll, dex modifier, proficiency bonus?
Matt: What?
Taliesin: Just because I have no brain, dex modifier, proficiency bonus, dice roll?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Okay, good.
Matt: You're good, you got it. As you guys find yourselves resting for tomorrow's trap incursion and hopeful defeat of Umbrasyl, we will take a break for the rest of you and come back here.
Laura: Oh, god! There's more we have to do!
Sam: It's okay, we'll do it during the break.
Matt: We'll come back in. We need a pee break. Quick one, guys. [break]
Matt: And welcome back. So, as you're preparing for this, what else do you guys need to do before the morrow?
Marisha: I dig a trench.
Matt: All right, so you dig the trench.
Marisha: I want it to be far away to where there's a tunnel and then make a circle around it.
Laura: We need to get Fassbender into the middle where the treasure's going to be.
Liam: I walk Fassbender out and I lay him down on his back, face-up.
Marisha: We have to do some stage-setting here. We have to set the scene.
Matt: Okay, as a note, when you return to Willhand's house, Fassbender and Willhand were both ejected from the doorway. Fassbender doesn't fit in that large room and wrecked part of the staircase from underneath but is fine. As soon as you acknowledge Fassbender to start moving, Fassbender, who has been inert this entire time, since left there for the evening before, takes a step and the area where the crack that you sealed earlier reopens. It looks like there is a minimal magical effect that was more of a cosmetic effect in the healing, but being a construct, it does not actually heal damage from it.
Marisha: Okay. Can I go ahead and take this time to do--
Sam: You're not there.
Marisha: Oh, I'm not there yet? Oh no, I'm building a tunnel. You're getting Fassbender. Never mind.
Liam: Yeah, I'm walking Fassbender out to where Keyleth is.
Matt: Okay. (stomping) Fassbender follows you out to that area of the town. As night has come now, the sun has gone, you guys are working in darkness. What are you guys doing?
Ashley: Vex, can I have one of your arrows? I want to make it real special.
Laura: You're speaking my language.
Ashley: Okay, so I grab one of her arrows and I cast Glyph of Warding on one of her arrows.
Laura: How many arrows can you do that do?
Ashley: I think just one.
Sam: Matt's checking his e-mail.
Matt: Within an object that can be closed, such as a book, scroll, or treasure chest. So yeah, it would have to be on something that, like a doorway or--
Marisha: Like a treasure chest? If-- can you cast it in like a barrel that he's going to break open?
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Thanks. I really enjoyed the idea of that.
Ashley: I thought it was going to work. It was going to be real cool.
Matt: So, you decide what triggers the glyph when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed in a surface, the most typical triggers include touching or standing on the glyph, removing another object covering the glyph, approaching within a certain distance of the glyph, so you could place this in theory on the ground near where the treasure's being left and give it the specific trigger for it to go off.
Laura: It can be maybe in a chest above Fassbender, 'cause he's going to be buried, and then it can be triggered maybe when the dragon lifts it up.
Marisha: What exactly does it do, the Glyph of Warding?
Matt: You can choose explosive runes--
Ashley: An explosive rune.
Marisha: Oh, so it, (explosion). That's cool.
Matt: 5d8 acid damage, cold damage, fire, or lightning or thunder damage. Your choice. Everything within a 20-foot-sphere radius around it.
Laura: 20 feet is really big. Oh my god! You know what you could do? You could make a trigger if he gets a certain height off the ground, and that way if he's over 20 feet above the ground, then it triggers and he's the only thing that would get affected.
Matt: Well, it triggers as a glyph, so whatever's near the glyph would be affected.
Ashley: So can we hide it in the loot?
Matt: You can, you can definitely choose some sort of a small chest or the ground underneath the loot if you want to.
Ashley: Okay. I'll find something in the loot, some little chest or something that I can put it in.
Matt: Okay, and what's your trigger?
Ashley: When he gets-- if he starts to fly away.
Matt: Okay. So if a creature-- the trigger would be, if a creature--
Liam: Pulls the glyph up?
Matt: That's up to you. What would you like the trigger to be?
Sam: Specific.
Ashley: If he removes something on top of it. But also if he grabbed it.
Laura: What if it gets above a certain feet in the air? Can it trigger then?
Matt: You can say if a creature flies above it at a certain height it can trigger. I'll give you that, yeah.
Ashley: Okay. So if it flies--
Matt: If it flies 20 feet above it?
Laura: I thought it meant if the glyph lifted in the air.
Matt: We'll make that one of the triggers if you want it to be lifted. So, if the glyph is lifted by a creature--
Ashley: So it can't be if he just touches it?
Matt: You could do that, yeah.
Laura: But it might be better if he lands and then we spring the trap. It could be a thing, if he tries to leave it explodes.
Ashley: If he tries to leave.
Matt: Okay. So, if the object is lifted off the ground, it triggers.
Ashley: Yeah. Even like this much? If it's just moved.
Matt: Okay, and you're doing explosive rune. What type of damage?
Ashley: I want to do cold damage.
Laura: Would I know, is a black dragon-- does it have any weaknesses?
Matt: You would know, with your knowledge and specialization, it does not have any weaknesses.
Laura: It has no weaknesses.
Matt: It is immune to acid damage, of course. But that is the only real information you have.
Travis: Make it acid damage. (laughter)
Ashley: I'm going to go cold damage.
Matt: Cold damage. All righty.
Laura: What about Fassbender? Is he immune to any damage?
Marisha: I'm pretty sure he's immune to most kinds of damage.
Liam: No, it's hitting and slicing. I'll check.
Ashley: I'm going to cast it at fifth level.
Matt: Fifth level? All right. That brings it to 7d8 cold damage. And what's your spell DC?
Ashley: 17.
Marisha: If we lose Fassbender--
Liam: He's expendable. Hopefully he survives. If not, good cause.
Laura: Can we fuse some chains into Fassbender so that he can be attached to the ground?
Marisha: I can. Can I do that? Right now?
Matt: Using what?
Marisha: I want to take and cast a Stone Shape spell, and then I want to open and almost make him a chain harness that's embedded into his waist? And then while I'm at it, can I patch him up?
Matt: Stone Shape is instantaneous. So whatever you want to do, it happens immediately. So, essentially, you could, with one casting of Stone Shape, seal the wound. With another casting of it you could then go ahead and have the chains--
Laura: Ready to go (squishing).
Matt: Yeah, just embed them in and have it seal. How many chains are you embedding in it?
Laura: Two big ones?
Matt: Two big chains? Okay. So you get two of the heaviest chains that you can find, which you probably got from the prison.
Marisha: All right, well, how about this? Vax, Vex, grab a chain.
Laura: All right. These are heavy.
Marisha: Okay, ready? On my go.
Laura: Wait, where are we putting it?
Marisha: I'm going to shove them in his abdomen. Okay? I'm going to make a spot and just--
Laura: You take left. I'll take right.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: Ready?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. As she does that, suddenly the chest wound opens up into these two big cavities. You take the chain edges and put them inside as they seal around them. There's now these two giant, heavy, door-holding chains that are now dangling for about 70 feet on each end from his abdomen.
Laura: Where do we attach these chains to? The ground?
Liam: One to the ground. Put the other one in a goliath's hands with a harpoon or a hook on the other end. Snag our prey, and then we have a Fassbender hanging from the bottom of a dragon.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You can find some metallic hooks just through general construction materials in the town if you want to.
Liam: I think we should do ten or 15 feet to the ground of chain and ten or 15 feet to the dragon, so that it's, thunk, and he's caught on the ground.
Laura: Just ten.
Liam: Yeah?
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Yeah, we'll sever the chains with Grog's muscles. We need to get 'em the right distance.
Matt: About how long?
Liam: Ten feet into the ground, which we can--
Marisha: Do it right now. Ready? I'm going to do another Stone Shape spell into the ground.
Matt: You have to go around and find an area, because a lot of it's dirt. You have to find an area that has actual stonework in the ground. Otherwise, it's just earth that's pulling it. Go ahead and roll a survival check.
Marisha: Not bad. What's my survival? 24.
Matt: 24, okay. You take some time. It's about 60 feet out from where the drop point is, is the nearest piece of near-surface stone. It's about 15 feet beneath the surface, but it is viable.
Marisha: Negative. I will cast--
Laura: Why can't it be 15 feet below the surface?
Liam: But he's going to go up like a kite now because it's going 60 feet all the way over there, where stone is.
Marisha: I'm going to burn-- I did that earlier, but I'm going to burn my last 5th-level spell to do Transmute Rock again?
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So you said there was dirt? All right, let's dig a little bit of a hole real quick. So we dig a hole ten feet down.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Put the chain in there. Cover it back up. Transmute. Turn it into rock.
Matt: Okay, and with that, the earth-- Okay, what is the radius of that one there? Let me see.
Sam: We have to cover this up.
Liam: With dirt?
Marisha: And treasure.
Matt: Transmute Rock-- 40-foot cube. You turn that into a solid fucking subterranean block of stone. All righty. Now you have Fassbender just there, stuck to the ground with the chain at its side.
Liam: Fassbender, lie down. Lie down?
Marisha: Can I take my last little bit of Stone Shape residual energy and take that mustache Vax drew on--
Matt: Stone Shape does not--
Marisha: And make the mustache permanent that he drew on with charcoal?
Matt: Sure, I'll let that slide. With the remnants of the spell magic fading, the now-lying-down Fassbender staring up with his vacant sunken blue-glowing eyes towards the night sky and the stars above, your hand reaches across the face, and with that suddenly the--
Marisha: I like this, I want to keep it, there we go.
Matt: --the once-charcoaled curly mustache recedes into the face, carved permanently to his face.
Marisha: You look much better now, Fassbender. High-five.
Liam: Give Keyleth a very soft high-five, please.
Marisha: Yeah! Isn't that cool?
Matt: That'll probably bruise tomorrow.
Marisha: It's okay. It's cool.
Liam: I quickly take that same charcoal out and I write in Common on his chest: Conclave or bust. (laughter)
Sam: I'm going to go to Keyleth and ask if I can borrow the rod of immovable rodness. How big is it?
Matt: It's like that long. It's like the rung of a ladder.
Sam: Got it.
Matt: It's got a little button on the side.
Sam: Button on the side? Cool.
Taliesin: Like a Tron lightbike.
Sam: I love it.
Laura: When are we going to set the trap that Percy made?
Liam: As soon as he finishes it.
Marisha: Yeah, we should set the stage.
Taliesin: In theory, it has to be laid down underneath all the treasure so that it just is nothing, and then we put everything on top, and then basically it's set, and then pins get pulled so that it's set. And you don't disturb shit again.
Marisha: Hey Percy, we're ready to fly in the trap whenever you are.
Taliesin: Yes, let's do that, gentlemen. Let's move it. Good work, ladies and gentlemen.
Marisha: While you guys set the trap, I'm going to turn into a raven. My job is done here. I'm going to just go and circle while they're setting the trap and setting the stage and do patrol and make sure we're not being watched.
Matt: Okay, make a perception check.
Laura: Why this creepy music?
Sam: It's random, guys.
Ashley: Why is he doing his eyebrows up and down?
Laura: Because the fucking dragon's going to see us right now.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16?
Marisha: No, sorry. 15.
Matt: 15. You circle for a while and keep watch. So far, nothing seems to have caught your attention that's out of the ordinary. About half an hour passes before you see a group of civilians, along with Percy, wheeling on carts this large ramshackle construction made of support beams from houses, metal joints that were used as basic construction elements, as well as these large metallic springs on multiple sides with hooks and elements of a chain-based net that has been piecemealed together. Eventually you guys bring it over. You clear out the area.
Laura: Fassbender will lay on top of the trap.
Matt: Fassbender will lay on top of the trap?
Laura: Right? He can't lay under the trap.
Sam: Well if it's like a mousetrap, can't he lie in between it? Taliesin, how does it work?
Marisha: Let's just keep him right off to the side because if that trap triggers--
Taliesin: In theory, he should be able to fit right at the sides of it, because it's got an armature spring system. As long as you're not in the way of the armatures, you should be fine.
Matt: So you set it up and away, laying the sides down, precariously putting the pins in, holding it in an open position. You begin to take dirt, dust, and gathering up the area, trying to hide it to the best of your ability. Who is in charge of camouflaging this piece?
Marisha: Go ranger, go ranger, go!
Matt: Make a survival check.
Travis: "Which dice will I use? There's no way to choose."
Sam: Can I aid her in this bit of camouflage?
Laura: You want to sing me some inspiration?
Sam: Can I inspire her?
Matt: Sure, what do you want to sing?
Sam: (singing) R-r-ranger, turn and face the strange! R-r-ranger, looks like you're going to have to hide this shit! Time may save me, but I hope you-- also do-- (laughter)
Laura: 31.
Matt: 31. You guys take a good portion of the next hour or so, under her guidance and tutelage, hiding this entire trap, getting dirt, the top layer of sand to cover it so it looks like it hasn't been recently disturbed--
Laura: Little Dust of Tracelessness.
Matt: Little Dust of Tracelessness to fill in and smooth out any of the ripples of any possible passage that has come through. Fassbender has been-- (crash)
Matt: Killed. Buried beneath the surface, just to the point where he's pretty much flush with the ground of where it is. Contraption set, the objects placed back inside with some of the barrels and some of the leftover pieces of wood, the one overturned cart. You go ahead and take the chest and you place the glyph onto it. It takes a while to cast that spell, about an hour, but you complete it without an issue.
Laura: Make it look like there's treasure on it. I take some of the gold that we have and--
Matt: Place it onto it?
Laura: A thin layer, where it looks like a lot of gold but it's really just a thin layer of gold over top of rocks.
Ashley: If it's a chest, can we put some coins sticking out of it? So it looks like it's full?
Matt: You can do that. It does cost you about 200 gold worth of components to do this glyph, so mark off that from your personal gold supply.
Laura: Grog.
Travis: Yeah?
Laura: Question. We sort of thought maybe we could use Kevdak as a tribute, like we sacrificed him to the great shitty Umbrasyl. Is that his name?
Matt: Umbrasyl, yes.
Laura: But it doesn't quite have the same effect without his head. Do you still have that head? In fact, I think I might have the head. Did I put it in my bag of cold?
Matt: You did, I believe. You gave it to her to put in there?
Laura: Would that be all right with you, Grog?
Travis: No.
Laura: Don't you want to kill this dragon, Grog?
Travis: I want that head.
Laura: I don't have the head. I only have the gross bear tattoo off Kevdak.
Travis: That's right, I put the flayed skin. I don't have the head.
Laura: Grog, I can tell when you're lying.
Travis: I don't have the head.
Laura: You're lying. Grog, can we maybe-- you'll be able to get it back, because we're going to kill this dragon and then you can just go and pick up the head and keep it again in your Bag of Holding.
Travis: What's the head for?
Laura: So we can make it seem like we sacrificed Kevdak to the dragon.
Travis: What if you sacrifice me?
Laura: Well, what?
Travis: Yeah, use me as bait!
Sam: We'd have to chop off your head.
Marisha: No, we could just tie him to a chair or something.
Travis: Or I could just put my hands behind my back.
Marisha: Make it look-- wrap some rope to make it look like it's loosely tied.
Sam: What if he bites and kills you?
Travis: Well, I don't know, but it's better live bait than dead, right? At least when you fish.
Sam: Nope.
Travis: Pretty sure that's true.
Sam: Nope.
Laura: Do you want to be bait, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Does that sound fun to you, or--
Laura: There's exploding things around here. Are you sure you want to be in this area?
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: No, you don't.
Travis: (laughs) No, I don't. I will give you the head of Kevdak.
Marisha: Oh my gosh, it took a look from Pike!
Sam: Wow, that's a powerful look.
Travis: I want it back.
Ashley: You'll get it back.
Travis: You better promise.
Laura: I promise.
Travis: All right. You can have it.
Ashley: With a bow on it. You'll get it back.
Travis: I don't want a bow on it! He didn't ever wear a bow!
Ashley: No, I'm just saying you'll get it back.
Travis: I take the skull and roll it to her feet. It's still got flesh on it, right?
Matt: Yeah, it's a little soft, but it works. So you have the head of Kevdak at your disposal. Trap is set. Percy, who's pulling the pins, what's the trigger mechanism?
Taliesin: The trigger mechanism is any weight shift. It's the same as a mousetrap. It's like you put pressure on it, you take pressure off of it, doesn't matter. As long as there's immediate weight shift in the platform, where the booty is, it just goes snap.
Matt: Okay. So very carefully and very precariously, you all have set this trap as the final element, aside from the camouflage. Is there anything else you would like to add with this very sensitive large situation being finished?
Sam: Where are we hiding?
Laura: We're going to hide in the trenches, yes?
Marisha: It depends on where you want to hide, I guess. (caws)
Taliesin: As long as I'm within range for my guns, I'm going to hide way off in the treeline.
Marisha: Yeah, there were two trees that were 80 feet? Or 60?
Matt: Which, Ryan, can I get the box of tree materials? Thank you.
Sam: You know, that box of trees that you have.
Ashley: Are we near any structures or any houses?
Matt: No, this is outside of town. It's an open field other than a handful of trees. Just to give you guys perspective right here, this is the setup right now. This is the central area where most things have been dropped. There are pieces here. If you want to put it into perspective here, the glyph lies over in this area. Most of the treasure's been placed in that area. The trap we'll say is set about in that area, with the central piece being the triggering mechanism.
Laura: And the trench is all around that?
Matt: The trenches are down in this area. Oh, now you say the trenches, are you saying they're covered or not?
Laura: They are covered.
Matt: So they're tunnels. They're not trenches. Where is the opening for the tunnel? Where would you like it to be?
Marisha: Far away.
Laura: There, on the other side?
Matt: This side over here?
Travis: Make it 50 feet at the most.
Marisha: I want it to be more than that, I'd like it to be 100 feet away.
Travis: You want them to get there in one turn, right?
Laura: You want to be able to get there right away on surprise attack, spring right out of the ground as soon as that trap triggers.
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: In theory, if the trap is sprung it'll make enough ruckus that anyone in those trenches should hear it.
Matt: Right, but it's more about the proximity of the exit to the trenches.
Marisha: Yeah, what I'm thinking is I've got a circle that I've carved around it. And then there's like a tunnel that shoots off this way and there's an entrance that they can walk in and get into their places.
Matt: You want them to just burst out, then?
Marisha: I've made it really thin like I did before, carved it nice and thin--
Matt: Okay. So the entrance is back here, then.
Marisha: I don't know what that means.
Travis: I thought we were all filing out of one hole.
Matt: That's what I was getting at beforehand. The intent is for them to push up and out?
Marisha: Unless you guys think it would be better?
Laura: No, I feel like they've gotta burst out, yeah.
Travis: I was confused.
Marisha: It's going to be cool, like night of the living dead-style! Orcs coming out of the ground! In my mind, it's really awesome.
Sam: In your mind, so many things--
Marisha: So many things.
Matt: There we go. All right. We have entrenched areas in this vicinity with you around it. What's the last things you need to prepare before the evening is done?
Laura: We need to have a feast.
Sam: Heroes' Feast.
Liam: I have a couple of questions. One, so I asked this outside but I just want to make sure. It says in the rogue section that longsword is something that I'm proficient in, but there's a rule somewhere that I can't find that says I can't use that for sneak attack? On page 95, it says I'm proficient in longswords.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: But somewhere else that I'm unaware of-- no surprise, motherfucker?
Matt: The attack must use a finesse or ranged weapon.
Liam: So it's not a finesse weapon.
Matt: A longsword, I believe, is strength.
Taliesin: No, wait! This longsword was being used as a finesse weapon.
Marisha: It has been used?
Taliesin: We had this discussion at one point. We decided that this longsword was a finesse weapon. Or it could be used as a finesse weapon.
Sam: Aloha.
Taliesin: Aloha!
Liam: In Hawaii, the longsword is a finesse weapon.
Taliesin: There's a beautiful view out this window.
Liam: Just want to know in advance.
Matt: I would say-- stretching it thin. We had agreed it was a finesse weapon for use, meaning as a dex-based modifier for you to use in combat specifically. When did this discussion happen, I'm trying to recall?
Taliesin: This happened when we were doing sword tricks. We were discussing whether or not I could actually use a sword. And what that would be like. Because we were having the conversation about whether you should take strength with the sword. I've obviously been using it as a dex-based sword, but-- I don't remember if that was specifically for me, or--
Sam: This is a tough decision. But you know, it's not a tough decision to subscribe to Loot Crate.
Matt: I would say because it is part of the intent of the weapon that the longsword, while it may be circumstantially used as a dex-based weapon for that purpose, it is out of your realm of expertise when it comes to using the sneak attack ability. It would not be able to sneak attack.
Liam: Lovely. I'm going to take off my Boots of Haste and my cloak. See if anyone else wants it, and I'm going to start attuning-- Can you use this?
Laura: What is it?
Liam: Circlet. Would you be able to control Fassbender?
Laura: Instead of shooting arrows?
Liam: No, Keyleth said you just say "zap," and he just does it until you tell him to stop.
Marisha: Yeah, it takes your concentration, so it takes--
Matt: Well, it takes an action to--
Marisha: I'm trying to speak in character, all right?
Taliesin: What do your Boots of Haste do and what does your cloak do, out of curiosity?
Liam: I want to see how much I'm giving up here. Haste will let you double your speed, you'll be able to do one more thing when you're doing things. Scanlan showed me some sort of potion.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm assuming that was a Potion of Haste.
Sam: I gave the Potion of Haste to Grog. We both found these two potions. Grog has the Potion of Haste if anyone else desperately needs it, and I certainly don't need to be any smaller, so I've given the potion of reduction? Reducement?
Matt: Diminution.
Sam: Diminution? To good old Vax here.
Liam: It's funny, because part of my idea was to go in with you. But I know that you have to do it to folk of your own size, but if I were little Vax, I could go with you.
Laura: Why can't you keep your boots on for that?
Marisha: Honestly, spellcasters, it's not as beneficial for us to have Haste.
Liam: That's true, but I'm wondering if anyone wants Fassbender. If I'm going in, I'm not going to be able to concentrate on that.
Marisha: Well, depends on when you're going in.
Sam: You don't know. Give it to Vex.
Marisha: If you focus on Fassbender and tell him to just attack or to cast Slow, he will do that until that dragon is dead. He will just continue without you having to focus on him.
Liam: I know. I just don't want to miss a shot to go into the belly of the beast with my little buddy here.
Marisha: That's so trite.
Sam: We were born to do this!
Laura: Does it have to be attuned?
Matt: Yes. So if you already have three objects attuned, you'd have to take one off.
Laura: No, I can't wear the circlet, dude.
Liam: All right, I'll wear it.
Taliesin: I could, definitely. If you could take the Haste Potion then I might take the boots, because speed would not be a terrible thing for me to have because then I get to shoot more.
Liam: I'm going to take this sword and I'm going to leave the Deathwalker's Ward on, that can't come off anymore, and the circlet, so the boots are up for borrowing and the Displacer Cloak is up for borrowing. Displacer Cloak makes you very hard to hit.
Laura: That's good.
Liam: And the haste will Haste you.
Taliesin: What does the cloak do, again?
Matt: Disadvantage on physical attacks against you. Until you get hit, and then once you get hit, it fails to work for a turn.
Travis: I might take that.
Marisha: The cloak?
Travis: Yeah. Oh my god, I'm going to take the belt off.
Sam: You're going to lose your beard!
Travis: You don't know that! This shit's in there tight. I take the Belt of Dwarvenkind, and I put it in the Bag of Holding. I put the Displacer Cloak on.
Matt: You will be losing 26 hit points to your maximum hit points.
Travis: What? Wait! Really?
Matt: Your constitution-- or no, it's plus two, so you'd be losing 13 hit points on your max hit points.
Travis: Never mind, no. Nope.
Matt: Because your constitution will go down without it.
Laura: I can take off my Bracers of Archery, too, and put something on--
Marisha: What do those do?
Laura: They just give me a plus two to damage rolls.
Liam: You're wearing a cloak, so if you wear the boots, you can click them and you've got more movement.
Laura: All right. Give me the boots. I'm putting the boots on.
Matt: Boots of Haste?
Marisha: Then I'll take the cloak, I guess. I'm going to take off my spell slot ring. And I put my goodie but my oldie circlet on.
Sam: Let's have a feast! Let's have a feast!
Matt: You guys prepare for the evening. You make your way back to town. Where are you having your feast?
Sam: Isn't there a central place that we killed Kevdak at?
Marisha: The mayor's? The big mansion.
Sam: Whatever that place is called.
Marisha: The Margrave's house.
Matt: All right. So you find your way to the Margrave's town square there, you can see a number of the remaining Herd of Storms are sitting around small fires in the center of the cobblestone. They're all war-painted up, you can see there's smears of various dark charcoal and/or crimson liquid smeared across them in patterns. There is a brimming tension of coming battle. You may do your Heroes' Feast if you wish. You can feast up to 12 creatures as part of it.
Marisha: I can also do a feast if I cast it at seventh level. But, fuck it, I'm going to sleep, so it doesn't matter.
Sam: You're going to do two feasts?
Marisha: Pike and I are both going to cast Heroes' Feast, so that way we can feast 24 people total.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: So tell Kevdak. Sorry, fuck! Tell Zanror his finest warriors, his druids--
Laura: And Abjurist Noja.
Travis: And Old Davin.
Liam: And his wife.
Marisha: So make sure we have Zanror, his wife, his druids that he mentioned; there were like two to three druids?
Ashley: Are there any magic-users in the room?
Travis: Magic-users or clerics.
Marisha: Magic-users or clerics.
Travis: Abjurist and Old Davin included.
Matt: So. That being the case. You guys have your meals in the center of town, summoned forth a grand Heroes' Feast, two side by side. The chosen soldiers step up and you all begin to feast upon your meal. The taste is great but you're all distracted as the energies of the divine enchantment of these food items fill your body and steel you against the coming fear, there is still the concentration in your eye as you all look off listlessly in the distance as you finish your food. It's now just pushing past midnight.
Laura: We need to sleep.
Matt: Everyone seems to go and find themselves to rest, a tense sleep before them. Anything else you wish to do before you go to bed?
Marisha: Rise at sunrise? Rise at dawn?
Travis: Wait, before we do that, didn't you do something that gave us an extra amount of hit points before Kevdak?
Ashley: I have Shield of Faith that I can put on somebody.
Laura: Will that last for 24 hours?
Ashley: It's up to ten minutes. I can do it tomorrow.
Matt: What you're thinking of is Aid, and that lasts for eight hours. That's the one that gives the additional hit points he just mentioned.
Sam: Does the Heroes' Feast give us additional hit points?
Marisha: 2d10, and you're immune to poison, fear--
Matt: As temporary hit points, should mention that too. It's a separate pool. So 2d10 additional hit points. You want to roll, Keyleth?
Marisha: Oh jeez. Don't let me fuck this up. Oh, that's not bad. 14.
Travis: 14? That's not bad.
Marisha: 14 from me.
Ashley: 12.
Matt: Okay, we'll say the 14 goes to your group, the 12 goes to the rest of them for the purposes of this. So that's a separate pool, the 14 hit points come off first before anything else.
Travis: If it's midnight, I would take Aid, just in case he comes in the morning, and if he doesn't, no harm done, you rest up anyway, right?
Ashley: Say it one more time.
Travis: I wouldn't mind taking Aid in case he comes in the morning. If eight hours pass I lose it anyway, but you rest up again.
Ashley: Do you want to have it for the night?
Travis: Yeah, just in case he comes in the morning.
Ashley: Sure.
Marisha: Well, when do we want to be at the trap? Dawn?
Sam: At dawn!
Liam: Just before.
Travis: Yeah, before first light.
Laura: He comes normally around noon, he said.
Marisha: So we need to be in our places by 5AM.
Ashley: So each target's hit point maximum and current hit points increase by five for the duration.
Matt: For each level of the spell, so if you cast it at higher levels, it's more.
Travis: How high do you want to cast it?
Ashley: Cast it at-- fifth is the highest that I have now.
Travis: Rock out. Go for it.
Ashley: Yeah, let's do it.
Travis: Five times five?
Ashley: That's, yeah.
Sam: You'll lose it when we wake up.
Ashley: Yeah, do you want it for tonight?
Travis: It'll hold for eight hours, right, or, but I lose it--
Matt: Eight hours, yes, but a long rest is eight hours, so.
Ashley: Yeah, it'll go away. Let's wait.
Marisha: What time of year is it?
Matt: It's winter cresting into spring--
Marisha: Okay, so we have long nights right now.
Laura: We need to go the fuck to sleep.
Marisha: So let's sleep for a good six hours?
Matt: Six to eight hours.
Laura: Set our alarm clocks.
Matt: You run on a pretty consistent schedule, being a ranger.
Liam: I wait until everyone falls still, and then I scrabble over to you. Are you awake? Yeah, you're awake.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm staring at you.
Liam: I don't know if it's the food you made or the fact that we're going to die tomorrow, but I want to kiss you. And I kiss her. For a while. Good night.
Laura: Did you use your tongues?
Travis: You're asleep.
Marisha: How does she see everything?
Liam: She's a witch.
Marisha: She's a witch?
Liam: She's a witch! Did you see the broom?
Matt: The evening's rest comes to fruition. You guys wake up as the very distant, dull blues of first morning light begins to crawl across the distant mountain ranges. Dead silent is the morning as the rest of the Herd begins to rouse and armor up. You hear the gentle clank of metal against metal as armor and weapons are gathered. Food is being prepared, cooked, and eaten without a word being spoken between them.
Sam: I just want to make sure that we're going around, passing out all the chains, attaching little hooks and jabby things and grappling hooks.
Laura: They know the plan. As soon as he lands on the ground, everybody springs up and--
Matt: Everyone springs up and hooks him.
Sam: If the trigger for that, they're going to be underground--
Laura: The trap should go (snapping).
Sam: If they hear a big clank, that's go.
Laura: Get up and out. Yeah, regardless.
Sam: Will they know that that's a big clank?
Laura: I'm sure it'll be pretty loud. There might also be an explosion.
Matt: All right. With that, Zanror, after having this discussion at the Margrave's makeshift war room in the front foyer, agrees. "Not to worry. I'll make sure the men have known. We'll sharpen the hooks sharp enough to dig into dragonhide, hopefully. We'll hold taut, and the moment that creature breaks free, weapons are to fall on it. Very well." He puts on the rest of his armor. Everyone's feasted for the morning. We've lost Taliesin.
Sam: Don't worry. His work is done. He made his trap good.
Matt: It's like he's on the internet in Hawaii or somewhere.
Sam: Let's do this.
Ashley: Right when I wake up, I am going to try Divine Intervention.
Matt: Right now?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Hold on just a second.
Travis: Yeah man, it's as good a time as any.
Sam: Does it last for a while?
Ashley: I don't know.
Laura: You used it before.
Ashley: No, it's never worked.
Laura: Yeah, the guy showed up.
Ashley: That's something else.
Laura: Oh really?
Ashley: That wasn't intervention.
Laura: I thought that was Divine Intervention that made the guy show up.
Ashley: It's never worked.
Matt: So Divine Intervention, there are elements of it that could be preparatory. By the nature of it, it's more of a sudden prayer of desperation. It's one of those things where the effects can range. It can be something that's immediate; it can be something that's more long. Understanding that, acknowledge when would be the good time to use it, whether it be now or later. Depends on what you're requesting, what you're praying for.
Ashley: To come help us kill a dragon. So that.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll a percentile dice, then.
Ashley: What do I have--
Matt: Roll 2d10. You may have a die that has multiple numbers on it.
Ashley: I do. Is this the percentile?
Matt: Yes. Roll that first. What'd you roll?
Ashley: What do I need to roll?
Matt: I believe you need to roll under your level. What did you roll?
Ashley: I rolled an 80.
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: It never works!
Matt: So, as you call to Sarenrae, the boundaries and barriers that keep the gods from directly interfering with this realm are particularly strong this morning. While you feel her glow upon you, her warmth and protection guiding you to victory, there is not more within her strength or sphere of influence she can grant you at this time.
Ashley: Dammit. I don't feel her warmth, though.
Matt: What else would you like to do?
Ashley: Just go eat.
Matt: All right, so the sun has come up, the hour hits to eight, nine in the morning, you're looking at about three hours until the dragon's--
Marisha: Wait, what time is it?
Sam: It's nine.
Marisha: Son of a bitch, we overslept.
Sam: No, we've been up since dawn.
Marisha: I thought we were trying to get in places before dawn.
Sam: Well, we're moving now. It'll be fine.
Marisha: I hate it when I oversleep.
Matt: All right. The rest of you and the rest of the Herd make your way north. The few people that have stayed behind in the town, the few stalwart, stand outside as you all march by, and they all acknowledge, bow their heads, some get down on their knees and pray for you as you pass. As you quietly make your way outside of Westruun into the plains between the dotted treed landscape towards the drop point. The Herd makes its way under the tunnel beneath the ground.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: All right. So they are now beneath the area. They are situated. There is the entrance tunnel off to the side that is currently visible and open from that portion. Do you wish to close or hide that tunnel?
Marisha: Sure.
Travis: I'm going in that tunnel, too.
Liam: Scanlan. Where do you want to go?
Matt: Grog, you have hidden--
Sam: I don't want to go underground.
Liam: Are we going in a tree?
Sam: We're going to go up in a tree. Let's go 200 feet away.
Ashley: I'm going to run up to Scanlan and I'm going to cast Death Ward on him.
Sam: What's that do?
Travis: If you drop below zero, you come back to one.
Matt: Once.
Sam: I don't need it. I'm okay. I know that you're very worried about me because of our love, but--
Matt: So Scanlan, you have Death Ward on you. You are now up in this tree here.
Sam: I don't need it. It jinxes me.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Protection from Energy, acid, onto Vax.
Matt: Vax actually already has resistance to acid because of his armor.
Ashley: I'm going to cast it onto Vex.
Laura: Thanks.
Matt: Okay. So Vex. Currently you have resistance to acid as long as concentration remains.
Marisha: I also cast Protection from Energy, resistance to acid, on Grog.
Matt: Grog, you also have resistance to acid.
Marisha: I'm going to stay in this cluster of trees with Scanlan.
Matt: Scanlan over here, okay.
Laura: I'm going to be up in a tree.
Matt: You're going to be up in the tree.
Sam: Different tree?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: I don't think we should all be in the same tree, guys.
Laura: No, I'm going to be in a different tree. Can I use my perception to see how hidden everything is?
Matt: We'll say up in this tree. You want to be up in this one over here instead?
Laura: Yeah, something far.
Matt: There we go. You'll be in this one.
Laura: I think Percy wanted to be in a tree, too, at a distance.
Matt: All right. We'll say Percy is over at this one here, watching his trap hopefully spring.
Liam: Vax is with Scanlan. Stuck like glue.
Matt: Is Trinket in your necklace?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right. Where do you want to be? Did you want to cast your Aid spell on anybody before this happens?
Ashley: Oh, yeah. Yes.
Sam: Matt, we're more than 150 feet away, yes?
Laura: Some people.
Matt: Some people.
Laura: Like the trees are 80 feet away from the stuff.
Matt: This here?
Sam: I would like to be more than 150--
Matt: About 70-ish feet away is right here where these trees are.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You're about 50-ish feet.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Aid on Keyleth.
Matt: At what level?
Ashley: Fourth.
Matt: That's 15 additional hit points to Keyleth.
Marisha: Additional or temporary?
Matt: Not temporary, additional. Keyleth, who else?
Ashley: Scanlan, again.
Matt: Scanlan, and--?
Sam: Why don't you do it on yourself?
Ashley: Okay, I have low hit points. I'll do it on myself. 15?
Matt: Yep, 15.
Sam: Keyleth, can you help me?
Matt: Do you cast it again, or are you just happy with those people? You can cast it multiple times if you have the spell levels for it.
Ashley: I'm going to save my spells.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'm going to need help. I know a little bit about dragons. I don't know a ton. Can you help my knowledge of animals in any way, shape, or form? For some sort of a check, I don't know. I just want to make sure that I know everything I can know in the moment when checked.
Liam: Can bards inspire themselves?
Matt: No. At higher levels, he can.
Marisha: Theoretically, I could enhance your ability, but it's a concentration spell and I've already protected from acid against Grog.
Sam: Never mind. I'm fine.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: What does your cloak do? That I put on?
Liam: Disadvantage on attacking you.
Marisha: Like, melee?
Liam: Until you get hit, and then it's gone for the round but resets for the next round.
Marisha: Only melee, not spells, yeah?
Liam: That's right.
Matt: So, at this point in time, Kevdak approaches.
Sam: Zanror.
Matt: I did it again. Zanror and two of his goliaths stay there waiting, with the offering placed at its designated spot.
Marisha: Shit. I can't believe we're doing this.
Matt: Any last-minute preparations?
Ashley: I'm going to-- wait, Grog, where are you?
Travis: I'm down in the tunnel.
Ashley: Is that where I am?
Matt: Well, wherever you want to be.
Ashley: I want to be in the trenches.
Matt: In the trenches? All right, so you make your way into the trenches, pushing past all the rest of the Herd members.
Laura: I hide the hole.
Matt: All right. We'll say for the purposes of this spread so everyone knows where they're all hidden currently--
Laura: Everyone knows they need to not move at all and be completely--
Marisha: Quiet.
Travis: I'm down over here.
Sam: Pike, you're in the middle of it? Oh, shit.
Ashley: I'm just going to hide. I'm not going to be a hero.
Travis: I'll throw her out of there if something goes wrong.
Liam: She doesn't clank if she doesn't move.
Ashley: They'll see me shining with my shiny armor.
Laura: You're right. We need to be stealthy up in the trees.
Marisha: I come over the earpiece in the calm of battle and I say: if things go terribly wrong, rush to this cluster of trees. I have ways that can get us out. I feel like I should say something inspiring, but I don't have anything, so--
Travis: How about fuck shit up?
Marisha: Fuck shit up, as Grog once said. About two days ago.
Matt: Hiding off in this tree beneath you is Noja, invisibility spell and vanishes behind. Beneath the ground here, off to the side is your good golem friend hidden in the dirt. Quiet sets in, gentle distant wind as the midday sun begins to stroll through. It's quiet and quieter still. You can hear the gentle bristling of high grasses against themselves. The tension causes the muscles in the back of your shoulders and neck to knot up. Watching the sun slowly crawl to its zenith. (wingbeat noises) You look up, those of you who are able, and you see a dark shape, a shadow dart off from the top of Gatshadow. Circles around, past you towards the city. Comes back. Growing larger and larger as it does. As it comes within the vicinity, it drifts up with one large beat of its wings. And (impact sound) lands into the center of this vicinity. As it hits the ground, there is a tink! (creaking sound, impact) As giant claws made of wood, metal, and rotten, angry hooks slam up out of the dirt, sending a giant cluster of dust just filling the vicinity. It woosh-- wraps around, you hear the smashing of metal and wood and low, guttural roaring. Dust has filled the area, and, for a brief moment, you have no visual on what's happened. As soon as that hits, everyone around you in the tunnels bursts through the floor, smashing through as the tunnels begin to collapse inward. Also, I need everybody to go ahead and roll intiative.
Ashley: Did he move the treasure?
Laura: Not yet.
Liam: Come on meteorite die, don't dick me.
Marisha: Green, lucky jade. That's okay.
Liam: Matt Colville, this is on you.
Sam: It's not you, Liam, it's me.
Marisha: Fucking shit.
Sam: Not good. Liam, yours doesn't matter. Mine does.
Marisha: Is yours not good?
Sam: No.
Laura: What did you roll?
Sam: It's okay, we got this. Pike's going to win the fight for us.
Liam: Hey, can I use Luck for initiative?
Matt: What does it say for the ability?
Sam: It doesn't matter, Liam.
Matt: I'll find out here. It counts as an ability check. I don't see why it wouldn't.
Liam: It's up to you. You're the boss. I love you. You're the all-seeing eye.
Sam: The feast gives us advantage on all initiative checks, right?
Matt: Ability check or saving throw-- technically, you get plus two to ability checks, correct? I'd say, sure, you can reroll initiative if you want.
Liam: (laughs) It was the exact same number!
Matt: You use the Luck point, and your initiative is what it is. Starting at this point in time, everybody--
Sam: It's a fight.
Matt: We have 25 to 20.
Laura: 22.
Travis: 20.
Matt: All right, 22. Vex. The Herd actually rolled really well.
Sam: Good, we need that.
Matt: Grog. All right, 20 to 15.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19 for Percy. Is that it? So we have-- Noja. 15 to ten?
Liam: Big ten, which if you think about it rounded is like 100.
Marisha: Also big ten, which if you round it twice is like a thousand.
Ashley: 13.
Matt: All right. Ten to five.
Sam: Big five.
Matt: Big five, right there. Scanlan holding up the rear, there we go.
Liam: Gosh, plan B indeed.
Matt: At the top of this surprise round, I need Vex to go first.
Laura: Am I first?
Marisha: You've got, no, he has Fassbender.
Laura: He has Fassbender. I guess I'm just going to shoot it. I mean, what else can I do right now?
Liam: You do you!
Laura: All right. My Boots of Haste have been clicked.
Matt: All right, so you are now hasted. You may now have an additional attack action per turn.
Laura: Badass. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Wait. Yeah, because I'm still hidden in the tree, right?
Matt: Correct, currently. As far as you know. Hunter's Mark on Umbrasyl.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him. I'm going to shoot him with my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel. So I'm going to roll.
Matt: Go for it. Now, he is surprised, so you actually have--
Laura: Advantage.
Matt: Well, you have advantage because he doesn't see you, so yeah.
Laura: Okay, so the first one is 12 plus 15 is 23.
Matt: 23?
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27 hits.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25 hits.
Laura: And 23.
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: So. Okay, those are regular attack plus lightning arrow attack, right? I all of a sudden forget how it works. Plus 1d6 per arrow. 1d6 for the Hunter's Mark. And then 1d6 on the first one for the sneak attack. Okay. Plus the regular.
Matt: Herd's up next, and then Grog.
Laura: 31 on the first arrow.
Matt: 31 damage?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Nice!
Liam: Seven plus five is 12.
Laura: 12. Plus nine.
Matt: 21. You're not getting additional sneak attack for the other two hits, by the way.
Laura: Right, I know. I lost my-- 18, I think. 18 was the last one.
Matt: All right. So that was your Sky Sentinel attack.
Laura: That was my first attack.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: For my second attack, I'm going to shoot him with one of my dragon arrows. Should I waste it on him?
Sam: Of course, he's a dragon! This is it!
Laura: I have two of them. I've been saving one, but I'm going to use one on him.
Matt: All right.
Laura: This is still advantage because it's still surprise round, right?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Okay. 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Laura: Okay. That's still my Hunter's Mark, and then-- I have a Jelly Belly in my thing-- And then that's 10d6 additional damage for the dragon arrow.
Matt: Okay, surprise round doesn't give you advantage, but you were hidden from the top of the round, so you have advantage.
Laura: Oh, okay. So an additional 10d6 damage for the dragon arrow.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage on that.
Laura: No. 6d10. Sorry, my mistake.
Matt: There you go.
Sam: She's going to one-shot the dragon.
Laura: 6d10. (counting)
Sam: Matt, can I turn around and see Keyleth and Vax making out in the tree behind me?
Matt: They are not.
Liam: We're not making out! There's a slow trickle of wizz going down my leg right now, man.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm hyperventilating.
Laura: Sorry. 24 plus ten is 34 plus Hunter's Mark is another four. 38 on that attack.
Matt: 38 points of damage on the dragon-slaying arrow.
Laura: And then my third attack, I'm going to use the Blazing Bowstring.
Matt: Just so you guys are aware, this is over 100 points of damage in one round.
Liam: Enjoy those boots.
Laura: Do I still get advantage, because I'm still hidden?
Matt: No. At this point in time, I'll say you've definitely made yourself known.
Laura: 20?
Matt: Technically you shouldn't have had advantage on the other ones, but--
Laura: 20?
Matt: Pssh, arrow splinters across the hide, no effect.
Laura: Okay. Wow.
Matt: All right. Staying there?
Laura: I'm going to sink down into the leaves, yes, and try to hide better.
Matt: You have no actions to hide, but you're in a tree.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. Finishing your turn, the Herd now is going to go. Shot from here, he's going to stay back. All move in, he's going to stay back here and aim. They can't even get in; there's so many of them.
Laura: I'm trying to duck behind some branches so he doesn't have direct line of sights on me, okay?
Matt: That's fine.
Sam: Man, what if this was all a trick and they actually work for him? Oh god, we're all going to die. It was all a trick! They work for him. They're going to kill us all!
Travis: If I were near you, I would slap you. Get a hold of yourself, man!
Matt: Throwing chains up, some of them leap up and jab the actual hook into the side and try to pull back. Having a hard time piercing hide. It's real strong.
Laura: Some of them can try to like swing the grapplings around the ankles--
Sam: Shh, don't distract him, he's adding.
Matt: I got this, don't worry.
Liam: Don't piss him off.
Matt: All right. We'll say about eight of them manage to actually get it into the hide. The rest either bounce off or can't find purchase into its hide and it just scrapes down, but the rest of them are trying to hold it down. "We got him! We got him!" And they're holding back. The archers all take aim. Misses, misses, misses, misses, hits.
Liam: Question. Did we give the chain attached to Fassbender to one of the goliaths?
Sam: No, it's buried in the stone.
Liam: To the stone, but one has to go on the dragon.
Sam: If that's what we planned, sure.
Liam: I don't know.
Matt: You didn't tell Fassbender to use it.
Liam: Oh, no. Okay. Cool.
Matt: That's two hits for all the arrows. All the rest of them are just smashing against the hide of Umbrasyl. No effect. That is seven points of damage and eight points of damage. They actually make it through. That's their round. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I go into a rage, and I would like to run up behind him with my Bloodaxe and make two reckless attacks against him.
Liam: He's got it. He's got a whole strategy. He's street-smart, this guy.
Sam: Intelligence of three.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Travis: That's really good. 28.
Matt: 28 hits.
Travis: So, that's 23 with three points of necrotic damage.
Matt: 23, three points of necrotic damage added in or on top of that?
Travis: Oh, that's part of it, yeah.
Matt: 23. All right.
Travis: And then the second one-- 22 with one point of necrotic damage.
Matt: Gotcha. Whack! Whack! It's a tough hide to cut into, but you're making small hacks into it. You can start seeing that damage is possible, though it's a lot to cut through. This is a very hefty, very old beast. All right.
Travis: With my bonus action, could I drink the potion of fast nuts? Potion of speed.
Matt: Well, isn't it a bonus action to go into a rage?
Travis: I believe you're right. Never mind.
Matt: Pretty sure it is. Let me double-check real fast.
Travis: I think you're right.
Matt: It's fine, yeah. Bonus action. So that's your turn? Percy, you're up. You're way behind the dragon, hiding by the treeside.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to cast Hex on the dragon.
Matt: All right, Hex on the dragon.
Taliesin: With a disadvantage to all strength checks.
Matt: Strength ability checks, okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to hold my turn until the dragon's turn.
Matt: Okay. You're just going to hold until it does something?
Taliesin: I'm going to hold until it does something, and if it does nothing, I'm taking my attacks, and if it gets away I'm taking my attacks. I'm just taking my attacks after him.
Matt: Okay. It is now Noja's turn. Noja is going to step out from here and is going to attempt to Lightning Bolt. From the side, he just reaches out, hand forward. Arcs upward in its direction. It fails its saving throw because it is held in there. It is currently considered grappled. It doesn't have disadvantage or anything, but I'll say from this standpoint it can't really move around a lot. It's going to take the damage.
Sam: (laughs) What was that face?
Matt: Terrible roll. 21 points of lightning damage.
Sam: That's 8d6.
Matt: At the end of his turn, it's going to use one of its legendary actions to make a tail attack against you. We'll say that'll be 27 to hit.
Travis: That'll hit.
Sam: Can I use Cutting Words on the attack or to reduce the attack?
Matt: If you want to.
Sam: I would like to.
Matt: Okay, so 27 to hit. You take, from the slam of its tail behind you--
Sam: No, I mean to, I'm sorry, I can't reduce the--
Matt: Oh, I thought, to reduce the attack not the damage.
Sam: The attack.
Matt: Okay. Go for it. Roll your d10.
Sam: Okay. (slide-whistle) A d10 is this one. Ten.
Matt: Ten. 17. What's your AC?
Travis: It's a 20.
Matt: 20. With that, the tail-- whack!-- slams into the ground. You manage to push out of the way just in time as Scanlan shouts up to the dragon.
Sam: Oi! You're so ugly you entered an ugly contest and they said no professionals! (laughter)
Matt: Just enough of a distraction in the settling dirt for the dragon to turn its head over and its tail swings just a little wide of you, Grog, as you sidestep, no effect. We'll say for this, it's less of a surprise round. I use surprise round liberally. Surprise was it grappling and everyone getting out of it and preparing for the actual assault.
Liam: It's more of a surprising round.
Matt: Correct. Umbrasyl does get a turn. Umbrasyl, very frustrated and angry at the circumstance, is going to attempt to break free. With disadvantage on the athletics check to try and break out of the grapple because of the Hex. All right. That is--
Sam: Is that a save?
Matt: No, it's not a save. It's an ability check. However, the strength-- (struggling sounds) cannot seem to break free from the grapple of the communal might of all the goliaths there. So that is unhappy.
Sam: Meaning Matt is unhappy.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: And three more dragons.
Marisha: Why the book?
Laura: Oh no, what are we looking up?
Travis: What's in the book?
Matt: Nothing's in the book, guys.
Laura: We're literally going to finish off this bag of Jelly Bellies.
Liam: If an ancient black dragon takes one hit point of damage, it cowers and dies.
Ashley: I'm looking for the popcorn ones.
Marisha: Thanks to whomever sent these Jelly Bellies, by the way.
Matt: That'll end Umbrasyl's turn. That brings us to Pike, you're up.
Taliesin: Oh no, that's my turn now.
Matt: Percy's up, then.
Taliesin: I'm going to take just a standard shot with Bad News.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Ooh. 28 to hit.
Matt: 28 hits.
Taliesin: 18 points of damage, with four necrotic. 18 points of damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: And I'll take another shot with Bad News.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: 20 to hit.
Matt: 20 does not hit.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: Second shot just goes wide, firing off into the distance over the city of Westruun.
Taliesin: All right. Turn's up.
Matt: All right. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to Guiding Bolt.
Sam: Be beautiful! Be good!
Laura: At what level?
Ashley: I'm going to-- at third. Let me see this.
Liam: Is this an attack range thing, or does it automatically--?
Matt: Spell attack roll, so you roll--
Ashley: And then I add that? That would be a 29.
Matt: 29. Damn, what did you roll?
Ashley: I rolled a 19.
Matt: That's nice. That'll hit.
Ashley: Okay, so now I do--
Laura: 4d6 plus two more d6.
Ashley: 26.
Matt: 26 points of damage.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: All right. And the next attack against it has advantage. So Pike, you're staying. You popped out of the trench and you're up on the ground. You hit it with the Guiding Bolt. You can see the blast of divine energy streaks up and slams into Umbrasyl's side. The darkened black scales now have this shining beacon across the torso. Anything else you want to do with your turn, or is that it? You want to move?
Ashley: Yeah. I'm going to stay.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: But I'm also going to put a Spiritual Weapon, just a sword again. Can't think of anything right now because I'm nervous.
Matt: We'll say right here in this area around Umbrasyl. The magical light sword of Sarenrae once again forges itself underneath Umbrasyl, swings up towards-- Let's see, you did Guiding Bolt at what level?
Ashley: Three.
Matt: Third level. And Spiritual Weapon is second level. So that works. Lasts for a minute. Make a spell attack. Roll again.
Ashley: 19.
Matt: 19 total? The blade swings up and as it strikes against the dragon's armor, sparks of divine energy versus the scales streak, but no damage is done. The blade is unable to strike through the hide. Does that end your turn, Pike? Are you staying where you are?
Sam: Did you add your spell attack bonus?
Laura: Yeah, she did.
Matt: All right. You going to move, stay where you are?
Ashley: I'll stay where I am.
Matt: Ending Pike's turn, Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm going to hold my turn until Scanlan, no. Yeah, I'm going to-- Fassbender, slow the fucking dragon down now!
Matt: Okay, at which point suddenly dust streaks upward as Fassbender steps up out of the hiding place there. Fassbender focuses his arms out as the slow magic effect seems to take on towards it. What's the DC on it?
Liam: Oh, dear god. That's a good question.
Sam: Who has the Fassbender stats?
Liam: I've got it. Slow-- 17.
Matt: 17. And that's a wisdom?
Liam: It is wisdom. And Fassbender, just slow until the end of tomorrow, just keep going.
Matt: It rolled a ten plus nine, succeeds in the save.
Sam: Wisdom disadvantage save. I have Cutting Words-ed him.
Matt: That's true. Rolled even higher.
Liam: Question  he'll just keep doing that until I tell him to stop, right?
Matt: Yeah, but it has to recharge. If it doesn't, he might just start hitting it.
Marisha: He's got to roll to see if it recharges. It'll recharge on a five or a six.
Liam: Okay. With my bonus action, I drink that potion and I'm a tiny Vax.
Matt: Okay! With that, you have shrunk down to a small-sized creature.
Liam: (high-pitched) Do it, Scanlan, do it!
Sam: I think this is the first time I've ever been taller than you.
Liam: (high-pitched) Hey, buddy! I love ya. Let's go in that dragon's gut.
Sam: I don't particularly like small people.
Liam: (high-pitched) Do you think Keyleth will think less of me?
Sam: Yes, I do.
Matt: Is that the end of your turn?
Liam: Yeah, action, bonus action. Done
Matt: So Vax is actually like a few inches shorter than you. You're now towering over him.
Sam: I tousle his hair.
Liam: I'm like eight inches tall, if that's true! He's so small!
Matt: (laughs) You're like two feet. He's about two and a half.
Liam: (high-pitched) These are still sharp.
Sam: You're so cute!
Liam: (high-pitched) Heeheehee.
Sam: My turn?
Matt: So, it's your turn, Scanlan. Oh no, Pike, Vax, Keyleth, then it's you. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Oh dear god. Okay. I'm going to transmute the earth underneath him. Right? That's what I'm doing? That's part of the plan? So if I can do right underneath Umbrasyl, that would be fabulous.
Matt: Transmute Rock--
Marisha: It's a 120-foot range.
Matt: Yes, and a 40-foot cube in the range. So what are you doing?
Marisha: I want to do the area just directly under Umbrasyl, if I can, so that I'm not sinking the Herd around him.
Matt: Turning what into what?
Marisha: I want to turn the ground directly underneath Umbrasyl into mud.
Matt: Okay. The only piece of rock is the piece of rock that you put beneath where the chains were there. The area right beneath Umbrasyl is dirt, it's earth.
Marisha: Okay, I thought it had spread, because it's 40-foot, so I thought it was under Umbrasyl, but I could do something else--
Matt: A 40-foot cube, part of it would be under Umbrasyl, possibly, but for the placement of where you put that, it's going to be hard for you to do it without it pulling everybody else into it.
Marisha: Okay. Plan B.
Matt: You can do it still, but it'll probably take some of the Herd with it.
Marisha: Should I go with pillars? Yeah. I'll go with--
Sam: No.
Marisha: No?
Liam: Just do what you're going to do. Ignore the gnome. Go.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to cast Bones of the Earth, which I think I can pop up six pillars around Umbrasyl.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So, Grog, you want a boost? You want to stand on a rock?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Pike, you want a boost? Do you want a boost?
Ashley: Yes.
Marisha: Okay. Here's what I'm going to do. I want a pillar here, Grog. When you're ready.
Matt: All right, so you're putting Grog on a pillar.
Marisha: Grog on a big stone pillar, bam! And then, where's the button? Pike on a pillar over here, bam. Let's go ahead, I'm trying to trap him in here. I want to pin him as these go up, so let's do one here. Can I get whoever that is up on a--
Matt: Which one?
Marisha: Right up here.
Matt: All right. If I'd known you were going to use this spell, I would've brought the pillars.
Marisha: Oh. Surprise! We were trying not to tell anyone our plan.
Matt: I know, it's good. Now I know.
Liam: We wanted to keep you off-balance, Matt.
Matt: That's good. All right.
Marisha: Let's do another one over here. Bam. Pinning him in. One, two, what is that, three, four. One on the opposite side, over here. Umbrasyl's a big fatty so I can't get my laser pointer over there.
Matt: Where do you want it? Right there?
Marisha: Over here-ish. On the other side of this one. Can I raise a pillar through his wing?
Matt: Not through his wing, no.
Marisha: So flanking this pillar on the other side over there, if that makes-- flanking this pillar. So wait, move that one that you just placed over a bit.
Matt: This is like a summoning spell.
Marisha: You know, it's fine. You get the idea.
Matt: That one there.
Marisha: Let's do one up here.
Matt: You have one more.
Marisha: Knock him in the chin.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Hopefully that contains him a bit.
Matt: All righty. That finish your turn?
Marisha: Yeah, guess so.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. Here we go.
Liam: Here we go.
Sam: I turn to my little buddy and I say  are you ready for a ride, little man?
Liam: (high-pitched) Come on, big guy!
Sam: Before we go, I yell as loud as I can to Pike to inspire her with my bonus action first.
Matt: The range? Pike is quite far away.
Sam: Can't hear me, or it won't work?
Matt: What's the range, I think it's 60 feet, so yeah. She's too far away.
Marisha: I'm behind you.
Sam: Well then, am I within 60 feet of her?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Oh. Then I will sing her some inspiration and I'll sing. (singing) Westruun town a dead-end world, east-end boys and Westruun girls, Westruun girls. (laughter)
Matt: Take your d10.
Marisha: Fuck yeah, d10.
Sam: And then I sort of link arms with good old Vax. Actually, I hug him tight because we've gotta be tight together to do this, and I hold up my hand cone and I cast Dimension Door and I'm going to aim right for the belly of the beast.
Liam: And I say  This is so fuuuu--
Matt: Scanlan. You are not fully familiar with the physiology of a dragon.
Sam: No, I am not.
Laura: I gave him as much information as I could.
Matt: And you did. I would like for you to make an intelligence check.
Sam: Just an intelligence check.
Matt: This is your ability to ascertain based on what you've seen, your knowledge of the dragon, where possibly in its body its stomach may be.
Sam: Okay. Why not?
Laura: Is it advantage because I told him where it would be?
Sam: Nope. 12?
Liam: Can I give him my Luck?
Matt: (laughs) No.
Sam: It's just intelligence, right, there's no other--
Matt: Right, you add your intelligence modifier to it.
Sam: Yeah, it's two.
Matt: You would add two to that because of your bardic ability. Plus two to any skill check.
Sam: Okay, 14, then.
Ashley: Is there anything extra from heroes' feast? No?
Matt: No. So. Both of you grab hands and vanish. The darkness that hits your eyes upon vanishing doesn't go away as darkness still hits you. All of a sudden, you are plunged into a thick, wet, crushing interior. You have finished your Dimension Door spell. You are in darkness. You are being crushed between what feels like two layers of musculature. Both of you.
Sam: Hi, dude.
Matt: You don't know where each other are. You don't see the other person. There's no sight. You can't hear anything.
Sam: Are we touching at all?
Matt: Nope. The trajectory of the spell and the unfortunate circumstance put you guys on two different sides of a membrane, and you don't know where you are.
Sam: It's going great.
Matt: All right. Does that end your turn?
Sam: Yeah, that's all-- I'll use my movement to go--
Matt: You are both considered restrained, so your speed becomes zero, attack rolls against you have advantage, you have disadvantage on dexterity saving throws. Also, you suffer eight points of acid damage, reduced to four.
Sam: Awesome.
Liam: Who's got the other gatestone? I have one.
Ashley: Oh, I have one.
Liam: 60 seconds.
Matt: You also both currently have no air. At the top of this round, Umbrasyl goes (disgruntled noises).
Liam: Suck it, bitch!
Matt: "I will eat all of you!"
Liam: I'm a two-foot-tall rogue, you motherfucker.
Laura: I'm up?
Matt: You're up first, top of the round.
Laura: Oh my god. Okay, I'm going to cast Conjure Animals and I'm going to conjure two giant eagles right in front of his face.
Matt: I'm really hoping we can put more things on the battlefield, guys. I think that would be a cool idea.
Laura: (laughs) Sorry, Matt.
Matt: It's not like I don't have enough to concentrate on up there.
Laura: I'm sorry.
Matt: It's fine. I don't have two giant eagle miniatures, so we'll say, for the time being, this air elemental is a giant eagle.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: I'll say, with no facetiousness, this is all I ever wanted in my life.
Sam: To be trapped in the spleen of a dragon with me?
Matt: We'll say these are up in the air.
Laura: Okay, right in front of--
Matt: Because I've used all the height things for--
Laura: And Conjure Animals is an action, or a--
Matt: It's an action.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to tell them to attack his eyes.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: They get their own--
Matt: Own initiative, which I just rolled. What's their dexterity bonus?
Laura: You sent me a thing-- let's go with that. Hold up. Giant eagle, dexterity is 17, plus three.
Matt: So it would be plus three, that puts them at 11, so they are just above Keyleth and Vax. All right.
Laura: And then for my bonus action, I'm going to-- I can't cast two spells, even if one's a bonus action?
Matt: As long as it's a level two or lower.
Laura: Oh, okay. For my bonus action, I'm going to hide a lot? I'm going to hide.
Matt: You didn't start the round hidden, so you can't do that.
Laura: I wasn't still hidden?
Matt: No, you have to spend a bonus action to attempt to hide at the end of your turn.
Laura: Can I attempt to hide?
Matt: You'd have to be a level two rogue to do that as a bonus action on your turn.
Laura: But on my boots of haste I can use it to dash, disengage, or hide.
Matt: Oh, you're using your bonus action-- so your extra action, not your bonus action.
Laura: Okay, my extra action.
Matt: You can do that, yes. Go ahead and roll a stealth check.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: You vanish into the foliage.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Great. Finishing your turn, the Herd now goes. They're going to attempt to put the rest of the chains up to increase the DC of the grapple. There we go. So four more chains get latched on so they're holding. Each chain increases the DC of the grapple. All right. So as they're all holding it down, the five in the back that are going to take attacks on it are going to do so. That's a hit, miss, miss, hit, miss, miss, miss, miss, miss, hit. Three hits. So four damage, five damage, and eight damage.
Laura: Wow, these guys hit real hard. How come they were hitting us so hard?
Matt: They're rolling really terrible. They get two attacks each. All right. And with that, the tribal druid is going to cast Blight on the creature. However, it does make its saving throw, so for the purposes of speed on this I'm going to use my dice-rolling app. That's a lot of dice to roll. That comes to 18 points of necrotic damage. That brings us to the end of that round. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Could I go into a frenzied rage?
Matt: You may.
Travis: Excellent. I'm on top of a pillar, and I'm not within striking distance, right?
Matt: You can hit it.
Travis: From up there?
Matt: Yeah, it's pretty tall.
Travis: (laughs) I would like to use all three of my attacks against his backside, reckless.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Natural 20.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: These are just regular. They're not great weapon master. 23.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Sweet. So the first one was the crit.
Matt: The crit. So go ahead and roll damage on that plus two additional d12s.
Travis: Right. That's a d12. 21 and two additional d12s?
Matt: Yep, 21 plus?
Travis: Ten, 31.
Matt: 31.
Travis: Seven, so 38.
Matt: 38 points of damage on the first strike. Next two strikes, roll for it.
Travis: That was awful. 13.
Matt: 13, all right. Last one.
Travis: That was also pretty crap. That's 16.
Matt: 16, okay. At the end of its turn it's going to use a legendary action to attempt to wing attack you. It's going to cost its last--
Travis: Oh, I did not add the necrotic.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: On all three of them. Three, six, eight.
Matt: Total of eight?
Travis: Total of eight.
Matt: All right. Expending two of its actions to use a wing attack, it's going to go ahead and start beating its wings as hard as it can, even with the chains amongst it. Each creature within 50 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 23 dexterity saving throw. Make a dex save.
Travis: (singing) I believe I can fly--
Matt: The only one of the party within-- what did you roll?
Travis: A nine.
Matt: Nine. All right. You take 15 points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Reduced to...
Matt: Reduced to eight. Go ahead and make one more dexterity saving throw, just for my own sake.
Travis: 16.
Matt: 16. You are thrust off the pillar, pushed, falling, and hitting the ground, prone on the ground, the pillar remains there. You take an additional eight points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to four, from the impact. But you are knocked prone. The rest of the Herd here, we'll say for the sake of that, they do not save. Oh, man. They are all knocked prone, knocking much of the chains free from their hands as they're thrown onto their backs. Then it is still technically grappled, so it cannot fly half its speed, unfortunately. It does seem to have knocked a majority of the chains off its back. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Holding my action until its action.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Noja. Noja's going to attempt another Lightning Bolt. It's the best thing he has at the moment. Oh, a natural 20 on the saving throw. Nope. Not bad. 15 points of lightning damage to Umbrasyl. Noja's then going to dart back behind the tree. Ending Noja's turn, it is now Umbrasyl's turn. Umbrasyl is going to go ahead and attempt to break free of the final chains that are there.
Taliesin: With disadvantage.
Matt: Correct, with disadvantage. But even so comes out to a 22. (crash) The rest of the chains that were holding Umbrasyl down break free.
Laura: What about the trap? Is he out of the trap then, too?
Matt: Well, the trap that's currently holding it in place is part of the whole setup. The trap is what's keeping it there, starting the grapple, and the chains are just there to increase the DC. So with that, the actual metal structure of the trap that held it in place is shattered. You can see pieces of iron go flying, wood splintering in this cloud of dust that is kicked up from the movement of the wings. Currently right now there are still hooks and chains dangling from Umbrasyl, but some of them have broken and most of them are unmanned at the moment. The dragon is going to (wings flapping) go ahead and--
Taliesin: Can I take my action?
Matt: You can, yes.
Taliesin: I'm taking a shot at him at the joint at his wing and I'm going to attempt to ground him.
Matt: Attempt to ground him? Okay, go for it. Roll for the attack.
Taliesin: Natural fucking 20. (cheering)
Taliesin: Oh no, oh my god, right now.
Marisha: He's taking a photo?
Travis: He's taking a photo.
Taliesin: Photo taken. Ha! Natural 20. It still doesn't necessarily mean he's grounded. It means he has to make a strength saving throw or he's prone.
Matt: Correct. So roll the damage first.
Taliesin: Roll damage. Oh yeah. That's double dice, so that's-- 23 points doubled is 46 plus--
Matt: Plus the modifier. So 46 is--
Taliesin: 46, yeah, plus the modifier now is 52 points of damage total.
Liam: That bullet came from the center of the Pacific Ocean!
Matt: Strength saving throw.
Taliesin: I rolled really well.
Matt: That's amazing. All right, so. Strength saving throw to try and resist the effect. That is a failure. It's going to use one of its legendary actions to automatically succeed, one of its legendary resistances. So succeeds. Rising up from the ground, because of all the guys that are knocked prone--
Taliesin: Wait!
Matt: What was that?
Taliesin: I was going to pop off a couple more shots.
Matt: You held your action, okay. So you fired, loaded, fired last round.
Taliesin: I was going to blow an action surge.
Matt: Oh. It's weird to do-- Out of turn action, it is a little strange to do that.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: He held his action. That's something you do on your turn as a burst. I'll say, probably have to wait on your actual turn to do that full bit.
Taliesin: No, it's okay. Go ahead.
Matt: Umbrasyl does rise up about 40 feet.
Liam: Here we go, Scanlan.
Matt: It's actually going to move back this way.
Ashley: Did he never land on the glyph?
Matt: He landed in the trap immediately and the trap set off, but he never grabbed the stuff.
Ashley: It was if he landed on it.
Matt: You said it was to--
Liam: Pull it off.
Travis: Yeah, we said to lift it off.
Matt: All right. Flying back at that point (flapping wings) just growling, absolute anger. Squeezed in its insides, you guys both feel this heavy contraction within its body as you guys watch this flow of greenish bile spittle begins to fill up and spray out in a line from its mouth.
Liam: Look at all those people.
Laura: Are they all going to die?
Matt: Everything there-- Okay.
Laura: The birds were up in the air, though.
Matt: Right, but the stream sprays down, it's not just a single bolt. It vomits it out and it lands over everything. That's how it works.
Sam: Pike, are you in there?
Travis: No.
Matt: All right, that comes to 15d8 acid damage.
Laura: 15d8?
Sam: I think a lot of those people will be fine.
Matt: So that's 81 points of damage to all those guys. They all just dissolve in horrible agony.
Laura: Oh my god, you guys, we're going to die.
Sam: No, just me and Liam. Both of the eagles just screech in pain as they're entirely ruined.
Laura: Good job, you fucking wastes of space. They didn't even get to fucking go.
Matt: Sorry. That's going to end Umbrasyl the Hope-Devourer's turn.
Marisha: The Hope-Devourer?
Matt: That is the full name.
Sam: So his middle name is The Hope? And his last name is Devourer?
Matt: Devourer. Married into it.
Sam: It's hyphenated?
Matt: Hyphenated, yeah.
Travis: Marriage fucked everything up.
Marisha: Yep, Umbrasyl the Hope and then marriage fucked everything up.
Matt: You guys have both entirely vanished, you both are inside the entity. All right, so. Keyleth, the line just stops right before you. It smacks into the ground five feet from your feet and you watch as the earth and grass beneath you just immediately turns black and seems to almost coalesce into this death-sludge in this long line. It just barely misses you. All right, that's going to end Umbrasyl's turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: All right. So. I'm going to Guiding Bolt him again.
Matt: All right. You're now up on a pillar facing this giant flying dragon. Standing above the rest of the battlefield, your shield up and your Frostbrand to the side, you reach up and grab your holy symbol and go ahead and roll for your Guiding Bolt attack.
Travis: How high is he?
Matt: 30 feet. He went back.
Ashley: 28?
Matt: 28 hits.
Travis: Fuck him up, Pike.
Marisha: Come on, Pike. Can you bring him down any?
Ashley: I'm rolling what again? Sorry.
Laura: What level are you casting it at?
Ashley: Four again.
Matt: How many 4th-level spells do you have left now? Because you cast--
Ashley: I have two more.
Matt: Two more? Because you cast Death Ward, which is 4th-level, I believe, right? On Scanlan?
Liam: Well, what did you do? You did Death Ward. And is that it?
Ashley: The last Guiding Bolt.
Laura: Yeah, so that's only two you used.
Matt: Right. So you have how many more left at 4th-level?
Ashley: Two. Because the ring gives me one extra.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll that. That is going to be 4d-- how much do you get Guiding Bolt damage on that then?
Laura: 4d6 plus an additional two or three?
Ashley: At fourth level, that would be seven, then.
Matt: That would be 7d6 radiant damage.
Ashley: 22.
Matt: 22 points of damage.
Ashley: But I'll also-- never mind. We're good, 22.
Matt: You're good. Okay.
Ashley: And then I'm going to move my Spiritual Weapon.
Matt: Okay, Spiritual Weapon, which is technically on the ground over here.
Ashley: And I'm going to move it to the back of his neck.
Matt: Let's see. Spiritual Weapon, can move it 20 feet and repeat the attack. It is more than 20 feet away.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: It's down there, so it can begin to shift upward in that direction. So we'll say that it's partway floating in midair.
Ashley: Can it get his feet?
Matt: No, it can't. It's too far away, unfortunately.
Ashley: All right, well, it'll start working its way up there.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn, Pike. All right. It would be the eagles' turn, but they got dissolved.
Laura: Thanks, Matt. Thank you for pointing that back out.
Matt: Oh, I like to. I also want to point out that you guys held my dragon to the ground for two rounds and hit it like a goddamn pincushion.
Liam: You'll feel better once Scanlan and I have dissolved.
Matt: I will. All right. End of Pike's turn. Vax, you're up first. At the top of your round--
Liam: I'm just going to take the dragon blade and I'm going to as best as I can drag it in front of me.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm going to cut the insides of this--
Matt: First, you take eight points of bludgeoning damage as it is crushing you, muscles tensing on the inside are just-- You're in between musculature right now and just being crushed.
Liam: Yes. Probably its sphincter. Now what?
Matt: You are restrained, so go ahead and make your attack at disadvantage.
Liam: At disadvantage.
Laura: But it can't very well avoid it.
Matt: It's about him being able to actually move and get it.
Liam: Well, I'm using the dragon longsword, which I've never used before. It's a plus one sword, so I get what?
Matt: Plus one to hit.
Liam: With strength?
Matt: It would be strength, but we've agreed that it can work as finesse for the purposes of a dex bonus, you just can't sneak attack.
Liam: I just can't sneak attack. All right. So.
Matt: Be grateful I'm being--
Liam: Whatever you want to do, you are the deity here. So this is a 17 to hit.
Matt: 17, you pull the blade and it's just unable to cut through this tense muscle and tendon.
Liam: Use Luck.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Nothing.
Ashley: Wait, what is this? Is this an attack?
Matt: He's trying from the inside.
Ashley: Can I cast War God's Blessing?
Matt: Does War God's Blessing require you to see the creature?
Ashley: Probably not.
Matt: We'll find out.
Sam: Yeah, probably.
Travis: Probably not.
Matt: When a creature within 30 feet makes an attack roll-- So, using the Guiding Bolt, you can see shifting somewhere in the body of Umbrasyl-- (laughs) You see this form moving in there. You know, based on what you guys have discussed before-- I hope you discussed this plan before.
Liam: We discussed it so much.
Matt: That's a plus ten bonus, is that what it is?
Ashley: Plus ten.
Matt: That hits, go ahead and roll damage with the longsword.
Marisha: Is this sneak attack?
Matt: No, he doesn't get sneak attack with a long blade.
Travis: But against dragons it does specific damage.
Liam: Yeah, it does plus 3d6, if I remember.
Matt: Let me look it up here just to be safe.
Liam: 15 from the inside.
Matt: 15 damage from the inside.
Liam: Hopefully that cuts me a little breathing room. And a question that only you know, Matthew--
Matt: The extra is 3d6, you are correct.
Liam: Am I within five feet of Scanlan?
Taliesin: An extra 3d6, not just 3d6.
Liam: I got 15 damage. Am I within, I'd like to use my bonus action to sneak attack if I can, if I'm within five feet. If Scanlan is within five feet of the creature, that's up to you. I don't know. It's crazy circumstance.
Matt: The reason that you would get sneak attack for having another creature within five feet is because it is harrying and the opponent is distracted--
Liam: The heartburn is not distracting it?
Matt: Not enough.
Liam: Not enough. Okay.
Matt: There's not a lot of threat to Umbrasyl.
Laura: You get a d8 plus your d6.
Liam: Yes, I know. I did it.
Laura: Then you did the additional 3d6?
Liam: I did, darling.
Laura: And you only got 15?
Liam: I only got 15. I would like to use the dagger to cut into him as well.
Matt: All right, go for it. Disadvantage on that attack.
Liam: Disadvantage?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Oh, that's no good. That's, nah, it's 12.
Matt: You can't even get your dagger out of the sheath. It's too tight in there. You are cutting through muscle, and you feel the body and the muscle just tense based on the reaction of the interior pain. You watch the dragon, but it's still keeping up in the air.
Liam: I'm okay. Okay.
Matt: You are beginning to suffocate.
Liam: All right.
Sam: Oh, jesus.
Matt: I mean, you can hold your breath for a little while here, but just letting you know, there is no airflow. You're not suffocating yet, but you know there is no air to breathe currently.
Liam: I understand, Matthew. I'm fucked. It's fine.
Matt: All right. That's your turn. That brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: I'm so scared. Okay, hang on. What the hell is the range on that? I'm going to just take a few steps forward, here-ish. Matt.
Matt: Right there?
Marisha: There-ish, move up a little bit. Just so I can-- Yeah, just ahead of the tree. And I'm going to attempt to cast Earthbind on him. He has to make a strength saving throw.
Matt: Strength saving throw. That is a failure. It's going to use its second legendary resistance, succeeds.
Marisha: Fuck, I knew it. Well, we've burned off two of his legendary resistances.
Liam: Also, I have no idea what the initiative order is, but Fassbender keeps doing Slow until I tell him to do something else, right?
Matt: If it recharges. Go ahead and roll a d6.
Liam: A d6.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Two.
Matt: Two. It does not recharge Slow. Fassbender is too low. Fassbender is just standing there now.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to take the remaining of my turn. Oh shit, I actually didn't want to move. It's okay. I'm going to turn into an earth elemental.
Matt: Okay. All right.
Marisha: And I'm going to take the remaining of my movement to move up--
Matt: Up?
Marisha: Well, he has 60 feet of movement, but I moved, what, like ten feet earlier, so.
Matt: 60 feet of movement? His speed is 60?
Marisha: No, I'm sorry. His Earthglide is-- Yes, 30, so he moves up 20 feet.
Matt: 20 feet, all right. That finishes your turn, Keyleth. Scanlan, you're up. Actually, at the end of Keyleth's turn, it's going to use a legendary action to use a tail attack against you, Pike, because you are within 20 feet of it. As it's in the air, its tail whips out toward you. That is a 32 to hit. (laughter)
Ashley: Yeah. Nope. No. Doesn't hit.
Matt: You take 22 points of bludgeoning damage.
Ashley: And I'm staying up there?
Matt: You're barely holding on up there, but yes. You take the brunt of it with your shield, and it almost knocks you off the side. You manage to take your sword and dig in to the opposite side and catch yourself on the edge of the pillar. It does not knock you off. Scanlan, it is now your turn. At the top of your turn, you take six points of acid damage, reduced to three, as you've found your way into the stomach. He did not.
Sam: Is it big in there?
Matt: It's fairly spacious, but it's all squeezed together right now. It's not a giant, empty void, it's not a giant pocket of air in your stomach, it is a--
Liam: Click, motherfucker, click.
Matt: You're also holding your breath. You are also submerged in liquid that is dissolving you.
Sam: I can move my arms, though.
Matt: You can. You're still pressed in but you can move your hands, yeah.
Sam: Okay, that's good. I'm going to get that rod out and click it.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Pulling out-- This is going to be weird. All right. So you take out the immovable rod and click it and as you release it, it stays there aloft in the center. You have darkvision as a gnome, correct?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Right, so there in this space amongst the murky liquid you can just barely see its shape there and it is held aloft, yes.
Sam: Okay. That's good, that's positive, guys. We're getting somewhere. Is that my movement? Is that my bonus? What is that?
Matt: No, that's your action to pull it out and click it. Because it's not easy to do in your current circumstance.
Sam: Sure. Okay. Well, I guess that's my action and I guess as a bonus action I can't really do anything. (laughs) I can't inspire anyone because I don't think I can hear-- oh! I'm going to use the earring. Shit. Fuck. I'm going to just start screaming and say: can you hear me, Vax?
Matt: You guys hear through the earring, (incoherent high-pitched babbling). The air has now escaped your lungs.
Sam: Fuck!
Matt: You're not drowning yet. That ends your turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Do I get advantage on attacking it because of Guiding Bolt?
Matt: You do. The next attack, yes.
Sam: Did Vax reply?
Matt: Yeah, the Guiding Bolt, because the Guiding Bolt's technically the next attack, it did not give you advantage on the attack, because you're on the inside and you don't actually see the Guiding Bolt. It would go over to the next one.
Liam: I don't know what the fuck's going on, Matt, it's fine.
Laura: I've got to see, because I just want to know. How far does Grasping Vine go? Do you know, Keyleth?
Marisha: 60 feet? I can tell you super fast. No, 30 feet.
Laura: How high in the air is--
Matt: He is 30 feet up right now.
Marisha: You technically have a pillar that's 30 feet high adjacent to him that you can anchor it into a pillar.
Laura: I'm going to-- can it go from the bottom of the pillar up towards him?
Matt: If you want to. Down here, you mean?
Laura: Yeah, I want to try to grasp onto one of his legs and yank him back down towards the ground. Ooh, which would really hurt with the immovable rod inside of him.
Matt: Okay. All right. So using your bonus action, you conjure the vine as your one 4th-level spell.
Laura: I have two because I have a pearl of power.
Matt: Oh. So you would've had to have prepared that in advance. But yes, we'll say you do.
Laura: Okay. Oh, I didn't tell you. I should have.
Matt: You should have told me. But we'll say as part of the preparation you did that, okay. So Grasping Vine appears, lashes out from this pillar up at Umbrasyl.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. The creature has to succeed on a dexterity saving throw or be pulled-- what's the DC on your spell?
Laura: Um, 16.
Matt: 16. That is a nine plus nine, that is 18. So the vine whips out and Umbrasyl backs up and pulls the leg up and it just hits the air beneath. Kicks away the vine.
Laura: That was my bonus.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay, then I'm going to attack him three times with my hasting.
Matt: Go for it. Yeah, three attacks.
Laura: All right.
Matt: First one has advantage.
Laura: Okay. 24?
Matt: 24 hits.
Laura: Okay. And that's sneak attack, because he's got somebody close to him. Inside of him.
Matt: It's technically not sneak attack. It's not so much about-- there's somebody close, but a person that is not threatening him from his current physical space, it is a bit of heartburn for him right now. You don't sneak attack somebody from eating bad pasta.
Laura: Cool. Then just seven--
Sam: Did he move?
Matt: Not yet, no. So how much damage is that?
Laura: Ten.
Matt: Ten points of damage for the first attack.
Laura: For the first attack.
Matt: Second attack? This does not have advantage, only the first one did. What was your first roll?
Laura: Then it doesn't hit. Then 26 for the last one.
Matt: 26 hits, so the first one hits, sticks part in the front of its armor, doesn't seem to phase it, the second one it actually hits the wing and the wing just shatters it and knocks it out of the air as it's keeping itself up. The third one, however, does strike and hit and it'll actually go between the scales of the neck. Roll for damage.
Laura: Nine.
Matt: Nine points of damage. Both arrows sticking out of the hardened exterior of the ancient black dragon.
Laura: The Grasping Vine just still hangs out there?
Matt: Yeah, it's just chilling on the side there. As long as you maintain concentration, it'll stay.
Travis: Is it grabbing him or not?
Matt: It failed with the grab. All right. End of your turn? Is that what you're doing?
Laura: Am I hiding still?
Matt: You have to use a bonus action to try and hide if you began the turn hiding. Or you can use your extra action from the haste to do it, but you already used it to attack, so you're not hidden.
Laura: Ugh! Fine.
Matt: (laughs) End of your turn, it's going to use another legendary action to do another tail attack against you, Pike.
Travis: Is that the third one?
Matt: That is a natural one. Umbrasyl goes to swing and suddenly there's a pulse in the stomach as you see Vax moving once again on the inside and doing so distracts it and the tail just swings overhead and you duck below it as it just barely misses your head by inches. One of your braids actually comes loose from the amount of wind that blows by. That brings us to--
Travis: What's left of the Herd.
Matt: Herd's turn.
Travis: Come on, goliaths and Herd, please roll better.
Matt: He is going to rush up around here. Grab the chains that they can. The chains have broken, so they're going to go ahead as part of their plan to begin to just unleash weaponry, so they just run through--
Marisha: Have they all broken? Maybe some just came loose.
Matt: This was their plan. The plan they agreed to. They're all taking out javelins now. They had them at their side. They're all leaping up towards it.
Laura: Are they just the stupidest goliaths, that they're all clumping together again?
Liam: That's redundant.
Laura: These guys are dumb.
Matt: You've met...
Travis: Scholars, the lot. You're going to pay for that later, by the way.
Matt: All right, so they're all going to take javelin shots at-- miss. Miss. Two-- miss. Hit. Hit. Three hits. And so they're all just (effort sounds) chucking these javelins upward. Four, eight, that's 12, plus seven-- 19 points of damage from the javelins as some stick in then fall out, the wounds are now becoming visible. Umbrasyl's-- there's visible wounding but doesn't appear to be in dire straits or anything. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Yes, I have two questions. One of the things I picked up from Kevdak were four enchanted javelins. What do those do?
Matt: They're thrown, ranged attacks.
Travis: And they're just enchanted?
Matt: They're plus one to hit and damage.
Travis: Just that.
Matt: That's it, yeah. It's a relatively simple enchantment.
Travis: What is my climbing speed? If my natural speed is 50 and I wanted to climb that column, what's the climbing speed?
Matt: Climbing speed? I mean, if you roll a decent climb check-- here. That would be-- I'd say that would be an athletics check to see if you can climb it, and I'd put it at about half speed. But you're also prone, so getting up from that's half your speed.
Travis: On my back, can I use my bonus action to drink the potion of speed, which makes me hasted?
Matt: Yes you can. You now have technically four attacks per round.
Travis: I do. And it doubles my speed, right?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Okay, so I have 100 feet, so can I stand up?
Matt: Yep. 50 feet.
Travis: Can I try and climb that column towards Umbrasyl's feet?
Matt: Athletics check.
Travis: That's not awesome. 18.
Matt: 18. You just manage to get to the top with the last bit of your movement. So you are up about ten feet from Umbrasyl right now, pushing on 15 at an angle.
Travis: So I have four attacks?
Matt: Yes. You're not in melee, though.
Travis: Yeah, so I'll use three of the enchanted javelins and the javelin of lightning.
Matt: Okay. All right, so you (effort sounds) finally with the javelin of lightning. So go ahead and make the first three strikes.
Travis: Reckless, all of them.
Matt: Okay, so with advantage on each of these. The range on the javelin strikes, I'm just going to pull it up real fast, since this is the first time you've used this.
Travis: Yeah, it's 120 feet for the javelin of lightning.
Matt: Yeah, within 30-foot range, so it's fine. Go ahead and roll. First one is?
Travis: It's an 11 plus-- just my natural like--
Matt: It's 11 plus one for being enchanted.
Travis: Right.
Matt: Plus your strength modifier and your proficiency modifier.
Travis: Oh no, my proficiency--
Matt: Which is plus seven, I believe. Plus-- so yeah, that hits.
Travis: Okay. Where's my proficiency-- oh five, I got it.
Matt: Yeah, you're looking at plus 13 with these attacks. The first one hits.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Second one.
Travis: Is 28.
Matt: Hits. Third one.
Travis: Is 19.
Matt: Misses. The lightning javelin you just throw and I think it hits.
Travis: And the second one, the last one is a 30.
Matt: The last one, I don't think you actually roll to hit with the javelin, it just becomes a bolt of lightning.
Travis: That's right.
Matt: So roll 1d6 plus eight for damage on two of those javelins.
Travis: So that's 12.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 14.
Matt: All righty. And now with the javelin of lightning. Makes its save. That is a 21 with the save. What's the DC?
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17, so it takes the half damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: What's the damage on it total?
Travis: 4d6.
Matt: Go ahead and roll that and he takes half damage.
Travis: 13.
Matt: 13, all righty. So 13, and then halved.
Travis: Six--
Matt: Six points of lightning damage. Okay. The last hit, the javelin turns into a bolt of lightning, and streaks through, hits and impacts and then just falls to the ground, the energy expended. Jamming itself into the dirt not far from the ground. End of your turn, Grog. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay, my first shot, taking a wing shot.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Taliesin: That's 20, that does not hit.
Matt: 20. It just ricochets off the armor.
Taliesin: All right, that's one grit. Taking another shot.
Matt: Okay, reload, and then shot again.
Taliesin: That hits. 30.
Matt: 30 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: 15 points of damage. And he has to make a strength saving throw.
Matt: Strength saving throw. That is a 19.
Taliesin: DC is 19.
Matt: Okay, so it succeeds.
Taliesin: It succeeds on the 19?
Matt: Yeah, you have to meet or exceed.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to burn an action surge to take a third shot.
Matt: All right. So reload, shot, reload. Go for it.
Taliesin: 21 does not hit?
Matt: 21 does not hit. It just steers wide, shooting past the beating wings.
Taliesin: Yeah, and then I'm going to just hide behind that tree and wait for my next round.
Matt: Okay. All right. Ending your turn, Percy. Noja is going to use the third and final Lightning Bolt, now arcing up to the entity. Makes its save with a 27. All right, bringing us to-- 8d6. 13 points of lightning damage against Umbrasyl from Noja, and Noja steps back behind, looking exasperated and spent on some of the upper-echelon spells at his disposal. Now it comes to-- actually, at the end of Noja's turn, Umbrasyl's going to use its last legendary action to make one more tail swipe at you, Grog.
Travis: Yup.
Matt: That is going to be a 29 to hit.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. You take-- that's really bad. That's 11 points of bludgeoning damage reduced to five.
Travis: I stay up?
Matt: Yeah, you stay up. (loud clanging sound from Skype)
Matt: What's happening over there?
Liam: Taliesin!
Matt: All right. Top of Umbrasyl's turn. See if this recharges. Umbrasyl is going to attempt to move to the left.
Liam: Yeah, try it, buddy. Internal damage.
Sam: The rod supports 8,000 pounds of pressure.
Matt: Correct. If the creature pushes against it, it must make a DC 30 strength check to move the rod up to ten feet in a single round. So. Nope.
Liam: That thing's fixed in space.
Matt: It goes to move and (grunts) and is feeling something tear through on the inside of its area so it stops with this sharp pain. Takes one point of damage, but the warning is there. It does not move. However, (laughs) the acid breath did recharge on a five. It's going to go ahead and go right there. Angrily lay down right there.
Laura: No!
Ashley: No!
Liam: But you're resistant.
Taliesin: Isn't he having plummeting issues if he's not moving?
Matt: No, if your speed is zero you plummet is how it works.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: No, they all fail. All right. They are all right over here. Wrecked. Wrecked. Wrecked. Wrecked.
Laura: Where's Zanror?
Matt: Zanror's right there at the bottom.
Laura: Where's his wife?
Matt: His wife is over here. And when I say wrecked, they're on the ground, their flesh dissolving and screaming in pain. The Herd has been heavily culled in but a few rounds. There's a little bit of horror to it. I need both Grog and Keyleth as an earth elemental to make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: 16.
Marisha: I rolled a two with a minus one, so one. Not a natural one. Rolled a two.
Matt: You both suffer 82 points of acid damage.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Resistance, so I halve that?
Matt: Yeah, you take 41 points of acid damage.
Marisha: I'm in tank mode, so I'm good. I'm an earth elemental.
Matt: Unable to move, that is the end of Umbrasyl's turn. That's messed up. (laughter)
Matt: Pike, you're up.
Ashley: I am going to cast Blindness on him.
Matt: What's the DC on the check? What is it, is it wisdom?
Ashley: I think it's constitution. Constitution saving throw.
Matt: All right, constitution saving throw. That is 18 plus 14. 32. I think that succeeds.
Liam: You don't know. She might've rolled a 78.
Ashley: You don't know! That's fine. I'm going to move my Spiritual Weapon.
Matt: All right. So it now shifts up into space as a bonus action, and you can make a ranged spell attack against it as the sword arcs upward towards Umbrasyl. Go ahead and roll, add your spell attack modifier.
Ashley: 29.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. 1d8 plus five, correct? Pretty sure.
Ashley: 1d8 for every two slot levels--
Matt: You did second level for that one, because it was a bonus action. 1d8 plus five.
Ashley: Nine.
Matt: Nine points of damage against Umbrasyl. Blade just streaks across and more sparks fly, but this time you can see it left a carve of glowing red mark across the scales where the blade managed to do some damage to it. That ends your turn, Pike. Vax, you're up. You immediately take eight points of bludgeoning damage as it begins to crush you from the inside.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to use my bonus action to-- can I sneak attack this thing from inside? I'm inside him! That's very surprising!
Matt: It's different! It's not like a soft gooey center. All of its body is still very dense, sinewy muscle in the vicinity. You don't know where you are in its body, so you don't know where the actual weak points are. So, given those circumstances, your ability to barely move-- Probably not.
Liam: Probably not? All right. Well. I'm going to use my bonus action first to hit it. It's at disadvantage?
Matt: Yes. All attacks because you're still restrained.
Liam: Okay, so that is 19, which fucks up.
Matt: That unfortunately is not cutting through.
Liam: And now I'm going to use the dragon sword. Okay. That's a 21?
Matt: 21, just barely not able to cut through the dense hide, the blade is caught on what feels like a ligament or something, it can't quite carve through with your body all crushed up inside.
Liam: Well. I will, for my turn, suffocate and also Fassbender should still be trying to recharge.
Matt: Correct. So go ahead and roll a d6.
Liam: d6. Four.
Matt: Four. Fassbender's still standing there. On a five or six, it recharges. That ends Vax's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. As an earth elemental I want to drop into the earth and Earthglide.
Matt: All right. How many feet are you going?
Marisha: With my 60 feet-- question, can I get across and to the top of this pillar here? Maybe?
Matt: Oh, right there?
Marisha: That one.
Matt: You can get up to there. You're wider than the pillar, though. You like--
Marisha: Earthglide to the top, so it's 30 feet tall. (nervous laughter) And I'm going to use my momentum to see if I can rocket myself out and see if I can jump and grab onto his leg.
Matt: Okay, so you're making this a jump action, then?
Marisha: Yeah, I want to shoot out of the pillar.
Matt: Using the momentum of the Earthglide?
Marisha: And shoot out with a waterslide trajectory, woo! Yeah? Maybe?
Matt: Okay. I'll say that-- It's pretty fast-- Also pretty heavy as an earth elemental.
Marisha: I'm thinking about it real hard.
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Marisha: So is that strength as a--
Matt: That would be strength as an earth elemental if you do not have a specific skill for it.
Marisha: I'm going to use Scanlan's inspiration. Ooh, that's good. 18 plus five, so, 23.
Matt: 23. You manage to leap and catch the bottom of its foot. (cheering)
Matt: You're not halting or doing anything to Umbrasyl other than the fact that you're holding on to--
Marisha: But I've got his foot. And I'm heavy as fuck. Well, if Fassbender weighs, what was it, like 1,200 pounds? 2,800 pounds?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: So I'm at least as heavy if not heavier than Fassbender.
Marisha: A ton is 1,000 pounds. Right?
Matt: 2,000.
Marisha: 2,000 pounds.
Laura: I thought a ton was 3,000 pounds.
Marisha: None of us fucking know. Why didn't we go metric?
Matt: The European watchers are like--
Marisha: Yeah, what are they talking about? Okay. I'm holding on for dear life.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I know from my experience going to the pubs with Grog--
Matt: Take eight points of acid damage, by the way, as you're slowly dissolving. Reduced to four.
Sam: I'm fine. How's my lungs?
Matt: Oh Keyleth, by the way, I need you to make a concentration check before I forget.
Marisha: Okay. Yeah. No, that's. Wait, do I add anything?
Matt: Well the DC is half the damage you took from the breath weapon, so 40. So who did you cast the resist acid on? You're no longer resistant to acid, Grog.
Travis: Copy that.
Marisha: Sorry.
Travis: No, it came in handy for the one.
Marisha: It did.
Sam: How's my lungs? Am I dying here?
Matt: Your air is out, you're still holding your breath, per se, but you have one more round before you actually probably start--
Liam: I would like to say that Liam O'Brien, who's a total wuss-puss, can hold his breath for like 50 seconds.
Sam: While you're screaming?
Liam: So Vax and Scanlan should be--
Matt: You're doing okay. He screamed and released all the air out of his lungs. So he's now completely collapsed lungs, no air to subsist on.
Sam: I'm almost out. I'm going to see if I can last one more round in here.
Matt: Okay, what are you doing? (laughs)
Sam: Well, as I was saying, I know from my time drinking with Grog that any sort of blow to the stomach will really make you barf pretty easily, so I'm going to set off a Thunderwave at level six and hope that he spits me up.
Ashley: Spits you both up, maybe.
Liam: I'm still in its anus.
Travis: We don't even know where you are, really.
Sam: You're done, friend, sorry.
Matt: All right, so at a sixth level we're looking at 7d8 thunder damage.
Sam: Yes. Thunder damage.
Matt: Go ahead and roll that.
Marisha: Do you need more d8s?
Liam: All part of the plan.
Sam: Yeah, this is totally thought-out.
Liam: The hastily smushed-together plan.
Sam: 7d8?
Matt: That is a DC, it rolled a nine plus 14, so it succeeds.
Sam: So it'll be halved.
Matt: Half damage.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: Eat some shit, Umbrasyl.
Sam: 25.
Matt: 25.
Sam: Only 12 points.
Matt: 12 points. I need you to make a constitution saving throw, because you are on the other side of the membrane from Scanlan and suddenly there's a giant impactful forceful blow as the outside of the stomach crushes--
Liam: Natural 20! (cheering)
Matt: You take 12 points of damage as well.
Liam: (laughs) Okay, I'll take it.
Matt: Constitution saving throw on Umbrasyl's part for-- Rolled a natural 20, so Umbrasyl's not vomiting.
Sam: Not vomiting.
Matt: Nope, rolled a natural 20 to see if it could hold it down. There's a boof from the inside of the dragon--
Sam: Does a little come up and he swallows it back down?
Matt: Basically. A little, almost.
Ashley: Maybe you got a little air though. For you.
Sam: I don't know, did that make a little air?
Ashley: Probably give you enough time to (inhales).
Matt: From the source of the force that probably pushed it away for a second, air is pulled through the esophagus instinctually as when the space opens it has to suck through, there's this (gasp) sound, so yes, there is a moment of air that is pushed back out. You can see upwards a brief little glimpse of light at the top of the esophagus as the mouth is forced open as the air is pulled in and the blast streaks out angrily. Scanlan, is that your turn?
Sam: I can't do much else. Do I have any movement?
Matt: You are restrained so your movement is zero.
Sam: Even in the water? I'm in a womb-like state.
Matt: You're not like floating in a giant pool of water. You're crushed against membranes with acid. Remember the scene in Akira when Tetsuo gets too big and the girl gets crushed briefly? You're in that middle period right there, you're between two folds of stomach lining and there is just acid all around. It's awesome.
Sam: All right. Then I can't really do much. Oh! Shit. No, I would've had to call it earlier. Never mind.
Ashley: What?
Liam: I just want to remind everyone, I am really small. I fit between muscles, bones, ligaments, anything.
Sam: I could have done Cutting Words after I cast my spell, but I didn't, so forget it. Shit.
Matt: At the end of your turn, it's going to use a legendary action to do a wing attack, actually two actions cost. Begins beating its wings rapidly in this vicinity. I need both Grog and Pike to make dexterity saving throws.
Liam: Scanlan, we're safe from all this shit.
Sam: I know! This is the best place to be. We're only going to suffocate and be crushed.
Travis: 18.
Ashley: 18.
Matt: Both of you take 15 points of bludgeoning damage and are thrust towards the edge of the stone, I need you both to make strength checks to resist the force to the blow.
Marisha: Hold on! Nice.
Travis: 21.
Ashley: Ten.
Travis: Is 15 halved for me for the bludgeoning, or is that already halved?
Matt: No, it's halved for you after that. However, you both are, from the sheer force of the wind, blown off the top--
Travis: A 21?
Marisha: What did you have to beat?
Matt: 23. Ancient dragon. You both fall and take an additional eight points of bludgeoning damage.
Ashley: I'm going to use my celestial shield and cast Featherfall.
Matt: Okay. So you take no damage from the additional seven. You catch yourself on the ground.
Travis: My eight is halved.
Matt: Yeah, you're both prone at the bottom of the pillars. All right. That was the end of Scanlan's turn. Back to the top, Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to try Conjure fucking Animals again. By the way, I was wrong. My pearl of power only works up to level three, so I don't have two level fours, I already used the one. So. Conjure Animals, again, two more giant eagles out of the ether. This time I want to conjure them like ten feet above his head.
Matt: Okay. Actually, because I didn't see you I need you to go ahead and make a save as well, because you were on it as it's beating its wings, too.
Marisha: Even though I'm holding on to his leg?
Matt: Yep. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Marisha: That's not good. Four.
Matt: Four. You also take 15 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: Halved because I'm an elemental.
Matt: And I need you to go ahead and make a strength saving throw.
Marisha: Strength? 19.
Matt: 19. You are blown off of the dragon's body.
Marisha: That sucks.
Matt: Like a rock slamming into the ground.
Laura: Oh, she knocked out a pillar on the way down.
Matt: You take 12 points of bludgeoning damage from the impact with the ground, leaving a small crater. However, there are two giant eagles that are now floating in the vicinity around the dragon. The eagles are summoned. Their initiative is not bad. They're going to be after Grog.
Laura: Okay. So they're above his head now, so if he shoots acid down, they'll be here. And their command is, attack his eyeballs. Okay. I'm going to use my boots of haste. For my perception, would I be able to see any weird little bumps on the dragon? Because my brother's been in there a while. Can I see anything going on?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: I'm behind his left nipple. It's pretty good already. It's pretty good.
Sam: Our earrings should work.
Laura: I'm sorry.
Sam: We don't need to talk.
Laura: 28. No, 29 perception.
Matt: 29? All right. You notice, on the outskirts of like the central row of scales, there is a small lump that is constantly struggling not far from the surface and is just darting around like a cartoon flea.
Laura: I'm going to aim right by there. But not quite at it. I want to make an opening around it.
Matt: All right. Roll for it.
Liam: Man, remember when we used to do hopscotch? That was the best. And then also we used to take baths together when we were really little, but that was when we were really little--
Laura: 20. Doesn't hit.
Matt: 20, it hits and shatters--
Ashley: Can I use War God's Blessing again? I use it every turn. Every round.
Matt: I think it's a Channel Divinity, in which case I don't think you can. War God's Blessing, Channel Divinity-- Which currently-- You can use it a second time between rests. Yeah. So you can.
Ashley: Let's do it.
Matt: So that does hit.
Laura: Oh, it hits?
Matt: Plus ten to the attack, so it hits.
Laura: Oh my goodness!
Travis: Pike!
Liam: Vex'ahlia--
Laura: Ten damage.
Matt: Let's see here, what's the range on that one?
Marisha: He's consulting the book again.
Matt: Just checking to see the range on that last because it does have a range--
Laura: He's getting my hopes up and then he's going to dash them down to the ground.
Matt: It's what I do. Creature within 30 feet of you makes an attack roll, so you could not, unfortunately.
Ashley: What was that, say again?
Matt: Has to be within 30 feet of you. She's too far away. So that one does miss, shatters across the armor of the dragon. You have one more attack and then your extra if you want to.
Laura: That one doesn't work either. (mock-crying) Okay, that's good. 23!
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: Okay. 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage.
Sam: Yeah, he's dead!
Laura: How do I want to do this? (laughter)
Matt: You can't summon it yourself.
Laura: Dammit!
Matt: Sticks into and pierces through. You feel a (impact sound) nearby. And what little bit of vision you have in the squeezed area, dark as it is using your elven darkvision, you can see what looks to be a part of an arrow point that has stuck through the armor.
Liam: I wrap my fingers around it.
Matt: Okay. Ends Vex's turn.
Sam: You don't know if it's Vex's. It could be anybody's!
Liam: Shut the fuck up, gnome!
Matt: At this point, Zanror looks over to Worra and says, "We have to go. Save our child." And Worra looks and sees all the dead around her. "Only if you come with me." Looks back and says, "No. I don't run from this. I'm going to kill this with my cousin." She turns and goes into a full dash this way, escaping. This guy's going to go ahead and begin to climb up. And gets partway up. Not all the way. Take a step back and make four arrow shots at it. That's a hit, a miss, a miss, and a miss. Takes an additional ten points of damage from the arrow. That guy over there is going to move around and he's going to grab one of the dropped chains on the ground and throw it up to see if it can wrap around Umbrasyl. Seven does not hit. It just arcs below and falls to the ground. That's going to end the Herd's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Still hasted. Can I stand up?
Matt: Okay, so 50 feet.
Travis: And with the Titanstone Knuckles, can I smash them together and cast Enlarge on myself? (cheering)
Travis: How tall am I?
Matt: You are twice your size, so you're pushing about 12 feet.
Laura: He's only six feet tall?
Marisha: He's gotta be taller than six feet.
Matt: It's roughly half your height, not perfect--
Liam: You're 15 feet tall now, Grog.
Laura: Yeah, 20 feet, you're probably 20 feet.
Marisha: 15 sounds nicer. Rounds up.
Matt: Don't argue with the DM.
Marisha: I'm not arguing, we're rounding up.
Liam: You're like two feet tall now and it's really impressive.
Travis: Being that I'm hasted, can I move directly behind Umbrasyl, like underneath him and behind? And can I attach the chain of returning to the Bloodaxe--
Matt: I assume it was attached before the battle.
Travis: Yes. And can I throw it at Umbrasyl?
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Do I have four? No, I just have one throw.
Matt: You have one throw. It hits and then you can pull it back.
Travis: If I want to.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Reckless.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: That's even better. 29.
Matt: 29 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: 21. With one point of necrotic damage.
Matt: 21 points of damage onto Umbrasyl. All righty. It is embedded in there. Do you want to pull back?
Travis: I don't want to pull it loose. I just want to weigh on it.
Matt: Okay, you weigh. All right. At the end of your turn, it's going to go ahead and make a tail attack against one of the eagles. That is going to be a 21 to hit.
Laura: I bet that hits.
Matt: The giant eagle takes 20 points of bludgeoning damage.
Laura: I'm sure that probably kills him.
Marisha: He has 26 hit points.
Laura: He's got six points left.
Matt: Okay, so the eagle right there has six hit points left.
Travis: Does enlarging do anything to my damage? Sorry.
Matt: You do an additional 1d4 damage with any melee attacks.
Travis: I didn't do that. Can I do that?
Matt: Melee attacks. Although the weapon does grow large. I'll say go ahead and do another 1d4.
Travis: Hey, four!
Matt: There you go. So that's an additional four damage. Great. So that's the eagles' turn. What do you got, Laura?
Laura: They're going to fly and attack his eyeballs! Fuck him up.
Ashley: Get him!
Matt: Roll attack, they have two attacks each, so roll four attacks.
Laura: Roll four attacks?
Matt: Yes. Plus five to each.
Liam: That one hits.
Laura: That's good. That hits. That one doesn't.
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: Ooh! Then one other attack hits.
Matt: So two hits. All right. So that is--
Laura: So those would be, like, one beak and one talon maybe?
Matt: It would be one beak and one talon, yeah. Go for it. So 1d6 plus three and then 2d6 plus three.
Laura: Nine for one on the eyeballs.
Matt: Nice.
Laura: And eight on the talons.
Matt: Not bad. Both streaking out and clawing heavily at the dragon. It's bothered by it very remotely. It's more distracted with the sharp pain in its stomach.
Laura: Eyeballs.
Matt: Well yeah, I mean, they're striking at it, they don't go straight for the eyeballs, the dragon goes here, hit. They're getting near it and scraping it, the scales around it, it's moving its horns around and batting them away. If you wanted to make called shots for its eyes specifically, none of those would've hit. Outside of a natural 20, none of them would've hit. And even a dragon's eyes have pretty decent armor.
Laura: That's cool, okay, good to know.
Matt: So Percy, you're up. Oh, we've lost audio on Percy.
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: Text us your move.
Taliesin: No, I'm good.
Matt: What are you doing?
Taliesin: All right. I'm taking two shots. That's all I got left.
Matt: All right. Go for it.
Taliesin: Here we go. 23?
Matt: 23 hits.
Taliesin: Ah! Hm. Ah. Okay. That's, eee, (broken audio).
Travis: Say that again, Perce.
Taliesin: 20, 24 points of damage.
Matt: Nice.
Taliesin: Six of which are necrotic. I'm taking my second shot.
Matt: All right. Reload, second shot.
Taliesin: Reload, fire. Fuck my life. That's m--(audio glitches)
Matt: Misfire? Oh no. Bad News just (muffled explosion).
Taliesin: Putting it away, pulling out the other gun.
Matt: All right, so that's the end of your turn?
Taliesin: That's the end of my turn.
Matt: All right. Noja actually is getting scared, yeah. Noja is actually hiding behind the tree and is shaking now, his body, malnourishment that whole time and this dragon taking all of these blows and is still standing has gotten to his head. Umbrasyl is going to look around in the vicinity, you know, starting to show some wear and tear and some serious damage to it now. And it's going to go into a dive. As it does so, you watch as the rod hits the edge of the body and tears through the stomach.
Liam: Damage.
Matt: And tears through the abdomen and out the side of it. The immovable rod now shoots out the side of its body.
Marisha: That's going to be a lot of damage, right?
Liam: That's a fuckin' missile.
Matt: That is 37 points of piercing damage as it ejects from the side. He is going to--
Travis: I'm still attached to him, too.
Matt: Correct. As you are pulled up, let's see here.
Travis: I'm going for a ride.
Marisha: We burned through all of his legendary saves.
Sam: One more.
Liam: You're attached to him? By a chain?
Travis: Yup.
Matt: You, Grog, are now being lifted up. Make a strength check.
Travis: Advantage on this. 24.
Matt: 24, yeah. Umbrasyl lifts up and goes full flying speed of 80 feet this way, carrying you dangling beneath and is going to go into a dash and continue to fly up towards Gatshadow.
Sam: (terrified laughter)
Liam: He's scared.
Matt: With Scanlan and Vax inside him still.
Liam: Work that broom, girl!
Matt: Grog dangling from beneath. And that's where we're going to pick up the next one. (yelling)
Matt: It's midnight!
Travis: Three of us are not here next week.
Matt: Three of you are not here-- That's right. Do you guys want to keep going then?
Liam: Yes!
Travis: It's either that or--
Matt: Or you're going to have to wait two weeks.
Travis: We're not here.
Laura: What do you guys think? Would you rather wait two weeks?
Liam: I want to go.
Laura: I mean, this is you guys, too. You guys have to stay.
Sam: You want to go, keep going?
Liam: Keep going.
Sam: It could be a long night.
Ashley: Who's not here next week?
Travis: Laura, Travis, and Sam.
Matt: Yeah, we're probably going to take off next week because we're missing half the party.
Sam: Oh, so we'll just skip next week and come back in two weeks.
Liam: No, it's on us, because we have jobs and getting up in the morning.
Matt: Yeah, we have work tomorrow.
Sam: Why don't we skip next week and come back in two weeks to finish?
Laura: I feel like that's smarter.
Matt: All right, let's do that.
Liam: You're leaving me in this thing's anus for two weeks?
Travis: That 30 minutes fucked us.
Matt: Picking up in two weeks from now. (yelling)
Marisha: This is awful.
Sam: The worst cliffhanger ever.
Matt: We have the remnants of the Herd and most of Vox Machina left behind as Umbrasyl flies off to the peaks of Gatshadow, dragging a large chain-held Grog beneath and a miniaturized Vax and Scanlan inside of its body.
Liam: Yeah, but I'm holding an arrow that's half in and out of the dragon. So I've got a little tunnel out.
Marisha: Make a little breathing hole?
Sam: I see a hole that goes to the outside now.
Travis: It's the shaft of an arrow.
Taliesin: This is chaos. I will see you guys later. I can't hear anything.
Marisha: Bye, Taliesin! We love you!
Matt: Oh man, this is going to get real interesting.
Sam: How are we going to survive two weeks thinking about this? I know what we'll do! We'll subscribe to Loot Crate and we'll find all sorts of things to keep us-- We'll be able to play with new toys and drink from-- (laughing)
Travis: Made me drop my fucking jelly bean.
Laura: That went south. That went seriously south.
Sam: We're not doing well.
Travis: We're doing great.
Matt: You guys did pretty good. Dragon's taken some damage.
Liam: Is it two Thursdays from now yet?
Matt: No, but it will be soon. All right, guys. We'll figure out what we're doing next Thursday. It might be another Q&A hangout session for those of us who are still in town.
Liam: Son of a b.
Ashley: Why are you guys going?
Marisha: Are you still going to be in Puerto Rico that long? No?
Travis: No.
Matt: They got birthday events and travel to do. It's all good. We'll be back here in two weeks, back here next week for probably a Q&A hangout session, two weeks from now with the dramatic conclusion of the showdown with Umbrasyl the Hope Devourer, member of the Chroma Conclave.
Liam: Matt, if you were wondering what to get me for my birthday, it's to kill my character in two weeks.
Laura: No! That is so terrible. Don't say that.
Matt: (laughs) That's awful.
Marisha: Such a death wish.
Liam: Kill me.
Laura: No.
Marisha: Hope Devourer. Maiden name Hope. Maiden name Hope.
Liam: The dragon's name is Hope.
Matt: We'll see you in a few weeks? Well, some of us will see you next week. Rest well, dream of flying dragons digesting smaller people. (laughs) See you guys soon. Is it Thursday yet? Good night.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Sound: 
Matt: Welcome back, guys. I hope you enjoyed your-- your holiday. Hope you enjoyed your new year and are ready to tackle all the chaos this year has coming. Both fists forward. So, missed you guys. Last we left off was a little crazy, but before we get to that circumstance, let's go ahead and start with our announcements. Yay! (cheers) First and foremost, our first episode of the year is sponsored by us happy to be back. We have no sponsor tonight. (cheers)
Marisha: Happiness!
Matt: So sponsored instead by viewers like you. So... Thank you. But, yeah, so other announcements we have. Me and Marisha will be running from this episode tonight to pack and leave at a super early, pre-dawn flight. Pretty much, or at dawn flight, to MAGFest. We'll be there getting in later tomorrow, and be there this weekend. So, those of you who are going to MAGFest, we'll see you there. We have--
Laura: Is that what it is, just a lot of magazines?
Matt: Just a lot of magazines.
Taliesin: People, US Weekly.
Marisha: Oprah.
Matt: We pretty much got in there only because of the article in Game Informer. That's the only reason we were invited. No, MAGFest is great. We have a Critical Role panel tomorrow evening that me and Marisha will be doing, and other fun stuff Saturday and Sunday. So, look for us in the schedule and we'll look forward to seeing you guys at the actual event. Travis, you wanted to mention something real quick?
Travis: Yes! I wanted to give a quick shout out to Kathy Creshe, Creshaw, I don't know how to say it.
Taliesin: That was a good shout out.
Travis: From Pennsylvania.
Sam: Big fan of the show?
Travis: We love you, from us, to you.
Laura: We read your email.
Travis: It was wonderful.
Travis: Sam!
Sam: Uh, yeah, tonight's sponsor is Critical Role, as you said, we have lots of stuff. Lots of merchandise available in the store. The logo shirt, mugs, patches, nail wraps, hats, key chains, and necklaces are available and if you didn't see it over the Christmas break, we have the Gilmore shirts and the "How do you want to do this?" shirts and you guys know this, we have a big Spanish speaking fan base, and I wanted to give them some love, so I thought I'd do our ad tonight in Spanish. Two notes, two notes, I don't speak Spanish, and second note is my neighbor's son translated this for me. So, he's in Spanish Two. Should be pretty basic.
Travis: Not, "He's Spanish too."
Sam: No, he's-- he's a sophomore in high school. Hola, me llamo Sam Riegel. Aqu est mi perro. Se llama Travis Willingham. Una broma. Te gustan las camisas t-shirt? Espero que s porque tenemos dos camisas t-shirt para vender en nuestra tienda. Una es color morado. Es para Gilmore's Glorious Goods. (laughter) La otra no es morado, es gris. Tiene el slogan de Matthew Mercer, which is... Como quieres hacer esto? (laughter) No cuestan muchos pesos. Tu vas a ir internet y comprar ahora. Gracias por favor! (applause, cheers)
Travis: Muy bien!
Marisha: Yay for Spanish Two!
Taliesin: High school Spanish is the official language of Los Angeles, well done.
Travis: A future translator will then, like, show up?
Sam: I don't know.
Taliesin: It'll be insulted. Actually, yeah, it'll actually Google translate and will be like, I refuse to even touch this.
Sam: It's for our Spanish language viewers. -There are many.
Travis: That was great.
Matt: This is true. Thank you so much. Anyone else? Oh, I want to announce real fast too. We received quite a bit of Critmas gifts after we had filmed the Critmas episode last month. So, as we're slowly retrieving them from the mailbox, me, Marisha, Taliesin, and possibly anybody that's available at the time, Liam, Laura will be doing a Periscope opening of the rest of those gifts in the next couple of weeks or so. Be announcing it ahead of time, so pay attention to that, but it is coming. So, don't worry. We'll be getting to your presents and thanking you for all your awesome unnecessary generosity. You're so wonderful and we'll let you know once it's happening. Anybody else have any other announcements they want to make?
Travis: Hands up!
Sam: Uh?
Travis: Hands up!
Matt: Alright, great. That being the case.
Marisha: I don't know--
Liam: I don't know what this--
Matt: Let's go ahead and dive in. To the first 2017 episode of Critical Role.
Taliesin:  Do you believe in life after--  (growling, screaming)  (electricity crackling) 
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. So, getting us up to speed with the current circumstance that we left off at the end of last episode. Vox Machina, the main adventurers, spending the better part of this past year under the shadow of the Chroma Conclave, a group of ancient chromatic dragons that have banded together, seemingly under the banner of Thordak, The Cinder King, a great red dragon that had been sealed in the fire elemental plane for a number of years. Newly released and carrying with him what was called a soul anchor. A magical artifact made from the heart of a fire primordial that had begun to cause him to mutate and swell and become something beyond what he was. Also driving him apparently insane. As he dominated the countryside of Tal'Dorei, along with the rest of the Conclave, you gather artifacts of great power called the Vestiges of Divergence under the guidance of two sphinx allies. You travel between various planes and gathering these artifacts gathered allies and prepared for this climactic confrontation in your home city of Emon, now partially brought to ruin and flame. You assembled an army. You snuck beneath the city. You arrived within the center of the Cloudtop district nearly under the nose of Thordak's defending hordes, and through a climactic seeming sacrifice by your friends Kashaw and Zahra, were allowed to pass directly into the Cloudtop heading off Thordak before he could emerge from his subterranean lair and lay waste to the armies as they pushed inward towards his lair. 
Travis: When you say it like that.
Matt: There you all did battle with the great colossal Thordak, The Cinder King. A well prepared fight rolled out and while there was much danger, you all persevered and managed to, using the vestiges, destroy the soul anchor once it was revealed within the body of the great red dragon. His form rescinding and withering back to its regular, seemingly withering size. You-- it attempted to flee back into its lair, but the rather rapid and temporarily winged rogue, Vax'ildan gave chase and dealt a finishing blow to the great red beast midway through its cavern towards its lair. There you were joined briefly by your sister and an ally you had made through this circumstance, Raishan, one green dragon. The member of the Conclave that seemingly had made a tenuous alliance with you as her goal also was to destroy Thordak. Aiding you in the battle, Raishan followed suit and upon the corpse of Thordak laying cut, bleeding and dead in the center of this cavern, she wished to take her end of the deal you had made. To be left alone with the corpse for a moment to acquire some secret knowledge that apparently she was seeking from the dead dragon. Upon releasing the energy from the scroll which she had utilized the incantation from, you decided that vengeance being your oath as a paladin and the history that you have with Keyleth and Keyleth's people that died under the guise of Raishan's initial plotting with Thordak to not let this creature stand and attacked it. Both you and your sister, just as Keyleth began to arrive. The rest of the party slowly staggering behind. Raishan sneered and went further back into the cavern. You all gave chase into this dark, volcanic tunnel system which then opened up into a large, red flaming cavern filled with lava pools and rivers, and apparently a handful of red eggs, it looked like scattered throughout this room. Thick dark red crimson scales with crystalline formations pouring out of the sides. Very similar to Thordak's primordial dragon form. Upon finding not Raishan, but just this empty space, you looked up to see a series of arcane summoned meteors suddenly given form, rocketing from the ceiling of the cavern and slamming into the floor dealing some of you a pretty dangerous blow and sending you scattering across the floor a bit. Vex being thrown across the way. You all managed to survive as at the end of the last battle, I'd forgotten that you had made your save and you actually, your bludgeon damage was halved, so Vex is conscious, though still hurting.
Sam:  Whoo 
Liam:  Whoo 
Matt: As the dust settles and you all take stock of what had just transpired, you see the snout of the green dragon pull up into what appears to be a series of dark volcanic exhaust tunnels that seem to be like a hive network of-- of honeycomb type tunnels that just spiral off all through the ceiling, and that's where we left off in the last sequence here.
Sam: Geez, Louise.
Matt: Which, previously, behind if I'm--if I'm correct, and I believe I am, and if not, internet, it's fine, we'll--we'll do the narrative. We have the three of you in the room. We have Percy, Scanlan, Pike and Gilmore rushing up behind as fast as they can. Grog and Kima had stayed behind to finish up one of the more recent battles and Jarret is just not going in. He is not in a place to follow suit. "You got this, you got this. Do not worry, it's okay."
Liam: Before we ran into the bigger chamber, Gilmore and Jarret had caught up with us if I remember correctly.
Matt: No, they did not.
Laura: Oh, they hadn't gotten to us.
Liam: I remember that they did.
Matt: No, they would have gotten into the chamber with you. Only the three of you made it into the chamber.
Liam: That's what I mean.
Matt: They got into the tunnel, but they hadn't got up to your guys. The speed in which you guys all got there was basically just Raishan and the three of you, then the attack happened. Raishan rushed in, you rush after her. Everyone else has kinda been left in the dust. They're not too far behind you, but things be as they may. We begin tonight's episode at this next round of combat. Continuing where we last did.
Laura: Oh, God, oh God!
Marisha: Jesus Christ.
Travis: Oh God, oh God, oh God.
Matt: So--
Sam: Why from there? You're fine.
Taliesin: No, stop, don't.
Marisha: Yeah, police.
Matt: So, at the top of this combat round, technically, Percy, you have the initiative on this. You are continuing to push through this-- this hallway. You haven't quite even, at a double dash, you can hear explosions in the distance and then you guys watch as suddenly smoke, silt and ash come flying through the tunnel from within immediately followed by the sound of these large, heavy, banging explosions. Some sort of heavy impact, a series of impacts seem to have detonated deep within the tunnel and immediately set everyone in the vicinity on edge knowing that something is still transpiring in a very dangerous way deeper within this tunnel.
Taliesin: I am throwing on my mask and I am running into the room. I'm actually gonna be spider crawling. I'm gonna be on the-- on the walls so that I'm-- yeah. I don't want to be in the line of anything that happens.
Marisha: That's awesome.
Liam: Spider Percy's my favorite Percy.
Matt: It's just the feet, Percy.
Marisha:  Spider Percy, Spider Percy 
Matt: You can if you want, if you really want to.
Sam: He's like walking like this?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Running.
Sam: Cool!
Taliesin: This ain't Dr. Strange, this is--
Liam: He's doing this and nothing's happening.
Taliesin: Out of fluid, you know.
Liam: If anyone can make it, it's you.
Taliesin: I know, I got to make-- I got to make Spider-- Spider Percy.
Matt: So, anyway, that ends your turn. You--you run past on the side of the wall, as the ash begins to settle around you as you run past, kind of preparing your weapons for a coming confrontation, you glance out to your right and see there the smoldering wreckage of red scales and dragon blood that was once Thordak, the cinder king. You see that and down it's about-- You keep running. You can see a gentle glimmer in the distance of a battlefield, but you're not quite there yet.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Okay, the top of the round. The three of you finding yourselves in this circumstance. We go to the lair actions. So, these lair actions are--
Laura: Oh God.
Matt: Of Thordak's lair, as this is not Raishan's lair, but even though Thordak is dead, the lair itself has its own natural, naturally occurring dangers.
Travis: Damn it!
Matt: So.
Sam: What? That don't make no sense, man. Thordak's dead. His lair dies with him.
Matt: Over time! Maybe, you don't know.
Travis: His home security system still pays for it.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Exactly, yeah. It's-- it's on a recurring subscription plan. So, there will be--
Taliesin: How do I pee?
Matt: The lava that you had just landed across. So, Vex'ahlia, as you are knocked from the explosions of the meteors from landing on your back, and just barely getting back up to your feet, your vision comes back as you see the stream of lava that's just barely pouring past. Very slowly begins to...
Laura: I back up, I back up.
Matt: As it opens and sprays here at 20 foot radius.
Laura: I climb back up and I bump an egg.
Matt: I'm going to bring out my templates.
Taliesin: No.
Laura: This is gonna kill me, isn't it?
Matt: This will explode and all three of you-- I need you all three to make dexterity saving throws.
Marisha: Oh, boy.
Taliesin: Yay.
Marisha: This is great.
Laura: Cool. This is-- is this--
Taliesin: First roll of 2017.
Laura: Oh, wait, I'm hasted.
Marisha: Twenty total.
Sam: Twenty total's good.
Marisha: Yeah!
Laura: Seven.
Liam: Twenty-seven.
Matt: Okay, that's fine. So, as it is a hotter, more dangerous vicinity here, the damage is higher, but you all managed to make your saves, so you're only taking half damage as you all avoid from the spray of magma that just bursts out and splashes in your area.
Liam: Evasion keeps me at zero, yeah?
Matt: Yes, because you have your rogue evasionness, and it's three ones, alright.
Laura: Yay.
Taliesin: Yay.
Matt: So, that'll be 18 points of fire damage reduced to nine. (indistinguishable dialogue)
Marisha: I mean, I'm not, you know.
Laura: Still terrified.
Marisha: Taking it for granted. (talking over each other) Yeah, yeah, something like that. Or five, it's debatable. Depends on the health of the people.
Matt: Next up in the initiative order is Raishan.
Laura: Oh, good.
Matt: So, as the splash happens, you glance up and you can see what looks to be a series of maybe a dozen or so of these volcanic lava tubes that kind of are these-- these caverns roughly the size of a very low live, kind of pushed in cat-like Raishan. You see the head and the tail kind of hanging out the side as Raishan begins to mutter some sort of an incantation under her breath. You hear the echo... (whispering incantation) Between the room as it kind of quivers for a second. And her form just vanishes.
Travis: Damn it.
Liam: But we saw where she was before she went into--
Matt: You did.
Sam: Fight over, that's it. That's great.
Laura: Oh my God, she-- she ran away.
Sam: Alright, let's mop up here and go home.
Travis: Punk ass, Raishan.
Marisha: The air ate her.
Matt: I guarantee you that's probably not the case. No.
Travis: You're saying there's a chance.
Matt: Yes. Alrighty.
Marisha: Dude.
Taliesin: Just shunned her into invisibility.
Matt: Great. That brings us next to Keyleth's turn.
Laura: Keyleth, just kill her. Find her and kill her so we can get--
Marisha: Whereabouts was she last?
Matt: Last you saw was up in this cavernous area roughly in this portion of the ceiling.
Marisha: But we can assume she probably went invisible and then moved.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: I could do Faerie Fire on her, but I mean, I don't know where she is and it's a 20 foot cube. It'd probably be a waste. So, instead, I'm going to cast Call Lightning at fourth level, and go fire elemental.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: How's that work?
Laura: It's an ongoing-- Lightning is an ongoing--
Marisha: Yeah, it's a concentration. Yeah, I can make it--
Sam: So it just exists there? -Ready to strike?
Taliesin: Like a ghostbuster.
Sam: Cool.
Matt: So, as you watch Keyleth's eyes flare with this bright electric kind of blue yellow light, as the ash and bit of dust that has been kind of plummeting from the ceiling from the impact of the meteor swarms and the movement of some now not seeable dragon amongst the ceiling caverns. It gathers into this swirling storm that begins to build and form across the top domed portion of this cavern. As it does, you watch bolts of electricity... Arc through the storm as Keyleth's form then whooshes into a burst swirl of flaming energy. Her physical body now becoming a swirling fire elemental. You wish to move or you're gonna stay where you are?
Marisha: I'm going to take a few steps back and-- question. Can I look up and see if, like, the clouds are kind of shaping around like a, you know, roughly dragon shaped body? That make sense?
Taliesin: She's looking for disturbances of the force.
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: You gave me that "this is bullshit" look.
Taliesin: Roll a 29.
Marisha: Oh, that's not bad. With perception, perception. Sorry, I'm so nervous, 26.
Matt: Twenty-six. Glancing about between the dust that's falling, the movement of the storm that you've gathered at the roof of the ceiling, you don't see anything that identifies the location of a dragon now.
Marisha: Yeah, so it's fine. So, I'll take a few steps back.
Matt: So you're about right there?
Marisha: Yeah, oh, oh.
Taliesin: Wow, it's weirdly mirrored. Okay, that took me a second.
Marisha: It's totally mirrored.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Laura: Oh!
Taliesin: Yeah, I know, cool.
Liam: Your screen is flipped.
Laura: That's crazy.
Marisha: It's fine. It's not a problem.
Taliesin: We have the same view you do.
Laura: It's actually, no, I think it's better, because we're looking at it from his perspective.
Taliesin: So, we can say like, "move us down," and they'll be towards him now. Yeah.
Marisha: I'm sorry, so move me--
Matt: Further in?
Marisha: Yeah, down-- down.
Sam: Towards the lava or away from the lava?
Marisha: Right there, down one more. -Other way.
Taliesin: South.
Laura: Oh my God.
Marisha: South. Yeah, that's good, that's-- that's good.
Taliesin: There.
Matt: Good, alright.
Laura: Where's our pointer?
Matt: Where's your laser pointers guys?
Taliesin: Where are our pointers? We need new pointers.
Laura: It's been three weeks, Matt.
Matt: It has been, I know.
Sam: We've forgotten how to play.
Matt: That's okay. Alright, so--
Marisha: It's like inverted controls.
Taliesin: I'm taking Diva.
Matt: Now, is that your turn?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: Alright, finishing Keyleth's turn. That brings us to Gilmore who's rushing up past--
Laura: Come on, Gilmore.
Matt: Keeping up his pace as much as he can. "Oh, boy. I know you guys take me to the nicest places." And he's just jogging as best he can. Rushing into the ash cloud as another one pushes through. Some of the wind tending to push and causing swirling little dust devils of ash and cinder. That's gonna end his turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: So you glance up.
Laura: I glance up.
Matt: You see all this happening, what are you gonna do?
Laura: I'm gonna get on my broom.
Taliesin: Get on up.
Laura: And I'm gonna take a health potion.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: So...
Matt: Regular health potion?
Laura: I have a Greater.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I have one Greater. So, that's a what? 4d8?
Matt: A Greater is 4d4 plus four. Remember you guys are pretty low on any powerful potions at this point. You used most of them, so, yeah.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, I had a Greater left. It's jack shit. Ten, ten whole points.
Matt: There you go, ten points of healing. On your broom.
Laura: I'm gonna go back towards the entrance. Post up to the entrance, like off the ground as far as I can get.
Matt: That's about as far as you can get. You want to stay hovering or just like there on the ground?
Laura: Hovering! Stay off the ground and can I--
Matt: Are you going up ten feet or 20 feet or are you staying just above the ground so you're not standing on it?
Laura: I'm gonna go up ten feet.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And if I can be a little bit further away from Keyleth, that'd be clutch.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I mean, I don't know if it'd be clutch, but it would be helpful. Can I look up, and see if I can see like, dust coming down from any of the holes, to see if Raishan is moving around in the holes on the ceiling--
Matt: Roll a perception check.
Liam: There's a storm cloud.
Laura: I know, I know. Is this pertaining to dragons so I would get advantage?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: That's the same thing.
Liam: Two 13's.
Laura: So, perception, so that's 26.
Matt: Okay, so glancing about, unfortunately, the gathering of the Call Lightning cloud combined with the other dark ash-filled interior, you don't see anything that signifies the location of a dragon. You do glance over and you notice that where you landed previously, one of the eggs was pretty much just destroyed by this-- 'cause it was the area of the meteor swarm where you guys were hit. So, all gathered here, so this egg right here by where you were, is currently just crushed inward and filled with rock.
Marisha: And--
Laura: Really? Is there anything oozing out of it?
Marisha: Yeah, what's--
Laura: I should have looked at it before.
Matt: It's hard to see, it's far away, but it looks like the egg has been destroyed.
Laura: Destroyed?
Sam: Destroyed?
Laura: She doesn't care about the eggs.
Sam: Or she didn't destroy it.
Liam: Not the Mama!
Laura: Okay, so I've got-- I'm so sorry.
Marisha: That's true.
Travis: So, it's covered with rocks.
Laura: I don't know where my notes are to see what my spells were from before. I didn't have it set up cause I'm a horrible person.
Marisha: But that was from the lair action.
Sam: Yeah, that wasn't her.
Laura: Okay, this is-- this is the last one. Oh, I didn't do like any spells before. So, I'm gonna cast-- I'm gonna cast Cure Wounds on myself.
Matt: Okay. What level?
Marisha: Yeah, but does she care or even not care?
Taliesin: We'll find out.
Laura: I'm gonna cast it at third level.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: So, that's 1d8-- 2d8 plus my spell casting modifier.
Matt: So, a 3d8 technically.
Laura: 3d8?
Matt: Cause if you're casting at third level, it's 3d8 plus your spell modifier.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: That's good, that's good, that's good.
Marisha: This is turning into a Jerry Springer episode. Is she or is she not the mom?
Laura: No, my modifier, which is my wisdom. Ten plus-- Jesus Christ, I'm sorry! Ten plus--
Taliesin: Three weeks, man.
Laura: Thirteen points heal.
Marisha: It's like riding a bike, riding a bike.
Liam: Three weeks to stew, everybody.
Matt: Alright, there you go. At the end of your turn-- Actually she's gonna do--
Taliesin: It's like riding a bike with pen and paper.
Matt: Okay. You feel this strange, sudden warm tingling sensation separate from the healing spell just in your vicinity. Almost like a warm breeze just kind of passes through you. That's it.
Sam: Oh, boy.
Matt: End of your turn.
Sam: What does that mean?
Laura: I don't know.
Sam: You've been cursed forever.
Travis: It's a bloody fart.
Taliesin: Farting dragon. Invisible farting dragon.
Laura: What if that was a baby dragon?
Liam: I'm gonna take to the air. I'm going to-- do I still feel hasted yet?
Matt: You-- yes, you do.
Liam: I'm going to fly past my sister and slap the one Greater healing potion I have into her palm.
Laura: Oh, thank you.
Liam: Oh, Superior, excuse me.
Laura: What?!
Liam: And then I'm going to curve around over Keyleth and stab the egg there with the Dragon Slayer blade.
Sam: Oh, boy.
Matt: This one?
Liam: Yes.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Stabbing eggs?
Taliesin: That should give you a Dragon Slayer bonus also.
Matt: Go ahead and roll for attack.
Travis: Isn't that poaching?
Liam: That is 29.
Matt: That hits.
Sam: Go home Travis, you're drunk.
Travis: I'm working on it.
Laura: The babies will help us though. What if the babies are cute? -Can we raise them?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: You want to try and Daenerys this shit?
Taliesin: We can raise them by setting them on fire.
Marisha: We each get one, you guys.
Liam: Twenty-six.
Matt: Twenty-six points of damage. Alright, you take the blade as you rush up and then hack through it. The blade only gets a few inches into the tough outer exterior of this egg and you have to push and carve through and you do carve a-- a sliver through the egg's shell and a little bit of deep, brownish-maroon liquid begins to spill out of it, but that's-- it's not a heavy amount of damage to the egg.
Liam: I'm gonna take Whisper and take that further.
Matt: Go ahead and roll for a secondary attack.
Liam: That is 28 to hit.
Matt: 28, that hits. I'll mark the eggs that are damaged and destroyed. This one is...
Liam: That's a total of 15.
Matt: Oh, that's not working too well. Good to know. Total of what?
Liam: Fifteen.
Matt: Fifteen, okay. With that much damage, the egg begins to crack even further. More of the liquid begins to spill. The blade pulls through and you can see, as you tear a chunk of the actual shell of this egg off and it falls, you have punctured some sort of thick amniotic sac. That's what the fluid that's spilling out of it, but you haven't seemingly touched any sort of flesh or creature within, but the egg is currently has a section that is exposed.
Liam: And I have--if I'm still hasted, I have a lot of movement left, so I'm going to fly and hover about 15 feet above the egg towards you, towards your DM tape on the side there.
Matt: Over here?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Fifteen feet in the air.  I have 120 feet of movement total hasted.
Laura: So, we were lining up? We're seriously lining up?
Liam: No, I'm all the way over there.
Laura: No, you're in a line.
Liam: That's not where I want to be. I want to be--
Matt: I know, I'm-- I'm calculating how much movement you have.
Liam: I'm arguing with her, not you.
Matt: Ah, no worries.
Liam: Cause that's what we do cause we love each other.
Matt: You can get right there.
Liam: Okay. Fifteen feet in the air.
Matt: Fifteen feet in the air?
Liam: That's not the egg that I'm talking about though.
Laura: Look, I'm talking about--
Liam: I'm talking about the egg closer to Matt.
Laura: Yes, there it is.
Liam: There.
Laura: That one!
Liam: This is where I want to go.
Laura: That's where you are, dude.
Liam: That's over there?
Laura: Yeah, it's reverse.
Liam: It's the--it's the flip screen is-- I don't want to go there. I want to go across from everybody. It's the flip.
Sam: Guys, just don't look at the TV. Look at the screen.
Matt: Over this way?
Travis: Closer, Matt?
Liam: I'm gonna kill you all.
Matt: Bare with this, new tech. New year, we're making this work.
Liam: There, there. The egg that's there.
Taliesin: I have a brilliant solution for this for next time.
Matt: So, from there-- yeah. You wouldn't be able to make it there.
Liam: Literally, in game.
Sam: Invert controls.
Travis: It's like a jet fighter.
Marisha: Battleship.
Taliesin: We can Battleship it. Next time, next time, we'll just have a row of letters and a row of numbers. -Says move me up to L7.
Laura: I can't use inverted controls.
Sam: I only use inverted.
Laura: Really?
Taliesin: Isn't that a great idea?
Matt: Destroyed.
Taliesin: That was amazing.
Matt: This egg has one crack in the side there. Okay.
Laura: Did you just mark on your cool eggs?
Travis: He's using dry erase.
Matt: Wet erase and, you know. It's fun.
Taliesin: It's either that or lick them.
Sam: How many more times are we gonna play with dragon eggs in a year?
Travis: Did you have us on tiny plastic eggs?
Matt: Yeah, so I ordered way too many. I put a bunch in my cart to make sure that I-- I didn't know which one to get and then forgot about it, came back and was like, "Oh shit, I got to order that." Ended up buying like three bags full.
Taliesin: What am I gonna do with all these eggs?
Matt: We'll have egg plastic giveaways. That ends your turn, Vax? Alright. At the end of your turn, Vax, you feel the effect of the haste potion dissipate and your body, all of a sudden, goes from this hyperactive, very familiar mode to extremely lethargic and you find yourself having to fight to catch your breath. So, you can't take any actions next turn. -Can't do anything.
Laura: Oh, it's the potion.
Matt: It's the potion, it's not the boots.
Liam: The boots, right.
Matt: Kima is trying to keep up pace with you, Grog. You're still in your large form. How long's that last for?
Travis: Let me check. Enlarge: 10 minutes.
Matt: Yeah, alright, so you're like bounding through. Kima's falling behind. As you guys both enter, and continue past you hear the explosions in the distance and all of a sudden, the rolling of smoke and ash rushes past you. The smell doesn't bother you cause you've had the smell of burning beard hair most of this close to your nose. What was once your great bush beard is a little tighter to your face now.
Travis: What? You've taken a few dragon fire breaths to the face. The fact that you have any hair is by the grace of your ancestral history. That Dwarven belt you have.
Travis: I know, that's why it's so precious.
Matt: But are you just going full sprint to catch up with everybody?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Alright.
Travis: I'll just roll it. I still have Pike with me, right?
Matt: Pike is coming with you, yeah. 'Cause you picked her up. so you're just running with Pike. Kima's just like, "Damn it!" Left in the ash. You, while you were behind, you, with your full speed, being faster than everybody else in this group, you almost catch up entirely to Percy and Gilmore and pretty much on their initiative count going forward, or at least of the arrival count in the next round. That finishes your go. Let's see.  You were after Vax, right?
Travis: Yes, no, no, I was right before Vax.
Matt: Right, so I got a little out of order, sorry, my apologies. Alright, so anyway, it wouldn't have made a difference. So Kima goes for a run. Pike. Is Pike doing anything on your back?
Laura: Yes. Pike's gonna heal you.
Travis: Who?
Laura: You.
Travis: Me?
Sam: Ran away.
Laura: Yeah, she's--
Liam: Oh, wait, she's with him.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: He's carrying her.
Liam: Nice.
Travis: I got a little backpack.
Marisha: I was just gonna say, is she Yoda-ing you?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Is it like a Yoda situation, that's awesome.
Travis: The force. That was terrible.
Matt: That was pretty awful, actually. (talking over each other)
Sam: Hi, I'm Yoda.
Travis: I think that's his brother, Carl.
Laura: She's gonna cast Cure Wounds at third level on him.
Taliesin: That Seagulls song is so great.
Laura: So, that's three d8's.
Marisha: One of the best things they've done in a while.
Taliesin: One of the best things they've done in a long while.
Laura: Ooh, that's pretty good. Sixteen plus her page, her modifier. What is-- oh, that's--
Travis: Wisdom?
Laura: That's my page.
Liam: Clerics are--
Matt: Wisdom, wisdom. Five, so add five to that.
Laura: Plus five, 18. -Twenty-one.
Matt: There you go.
Travis: Thanks, Pike.
Laura: "Oh, you're welcome, Grog."
Liam: You know.
Laura: Well, you know.
Matt: Scanlan.
Sam: I will run... my 25 feet, and then pop a potion. Just a normal potion of healing 'cause that's all I got.
Matt: So, that's a 1d-- 2d4 plus two.
Sam: Okay. Ooh. 2d4 plus two?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Five.
Matt: You heal five hit points.
Sam: Great, I'm up to 70.
Matt: Are you-- are you doing anything else on your turn? Are you dashing?
Sam: Can I use my action to dash?
Matt: Yes, your action to move again, essentially.
Sam: Okay. I will do such a thing cause I don't even know. I'm just following people and--
Matt: Yeah, you're a little bit behind and you're pretty much-- Grog has caught up to you, and you guys are just behind Gilmore and Percy at this point.
Sam: Okay, I'm in front of Grog still?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Damn. (laughing)
Matt: Well, he was running while you-- (breathing heavily)
Sam: Objects in the mirror are gigantic.
Matt: Okay, at the end of your turn--
Sam: I die. 
Matt: Vax. You, as you fly over with your wings in the air, looking down at the egg. You feel this sudden warm wind pass through you.
Laura: What is that?
Marisha: Fuck, is that her?
Matt: You don't quite-- it seems sourceless, but it just seems to fill you and leave.
Laura: Does it feel good when it happens or does it feel like--
Matt: It's just different. It's already a hot, like you're all sweating in here, so the fact that you feel something, like, warm briefly comparatively to the temperature around you is what catches your attention. It doesn't hurt or damage you, but it just seems strange.
Taliesin: I don't like any of this.
Marisha: I don't like any of it.
Sam: It's menopause. (laughing)
Laura: It's natural.
Liam: You ruined the surprise.
Travis: I cast Menopause on you.
Liam: I'll pretend like I suffer it myself.
Matt: Okay, good.
Travis: You bastard.
Matt: Percival, we're up at the top of the initiative.
Taliesin: I'm running my way in there.
Matt: Alright. So... Alrighty. Percival, at a full run. If you go full run, you'll manage to get just barely inside the cavern about there.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Right there.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: So, that'll be your turn. There's still a bonus action if you have any use for it, so.
Taliesin: I don't really have-- Mostly I just want to use my bonus action to take in everything and look around and have a-- have a good, good serious look. In fact, I'll even take a perception roll if I can have one.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: Just a good sit and think.
Taliesin: Let's get-- okay, no never mind. That's pretty good. Wow, it has been a while. -Twenty-five.
Matt: Twenty-five. Glancing around, you see a fire elemental that briefly startles you as you kind of whip around in that direction, but you recognize--
Marisha: And like, it's got antlers, and I'm like... (grunts)
Taliesin: I love Hannibal too, it's great. Okay. Eggs, dust.
Matt: Yeah, you see eggs. One is destroyed and just leaking out and like a series of boulders and what looks like some sort of a large, concave impression on the top. There are eggs scattered throughout the area. There's a giant storm cloud gathering in the roof of the cavern, and there is the large pool of lava with the small pool over there. You see occasional glimmers of what look like coin in the distance.
Taliesin: Can you put me, like, on the wall just cause I don't think I'd be-- I was still spider crawling so even on top of the little wall thing, if you want.
Matt: Sure, I'll put you there. Sure, why not, Percy?
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: You're welcome.
Taliesin: That makes me happy.
Liam: How high is it to these holes in the ceiling from--
Matt: I'd say it's about 60, 70 feet up?
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Cool, cool.
Matt: Yeah, the whole cavern's kind of domed like this. Alrighty, then, that's Percy's turn. Another lair action's going to transpire.
Sam: Oh. This one's a good one. This one heals everybody.
Matt: Yeah. There is a fissure that erupts over in this side of the room. The ground kind of cracks open and this-- You've seen it happen once. A plume of poisonous gas fills this space here.
Laura: It's okay, we're immune to poison.
Matt: Let's see. I need-- I need you, Vex, to make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Even I'm immune to poison? Oh, no.
Marisha: Really? Even with Hero's Feast?
Sam: Oh, no.
Marisha: Oh, shit.
Laura: I got plus two for the ring. So, 11.
Sam: Eleven.
Matt: Okay, good, I'll keep that in mind.
Taliesin: That's a number.
Matt: Okay. It is now...
Travis: What does that mean? What does it mean?
Laura: Slowly my skin starts to melt off my body.
Matt: Yeah, you just-- the cloud kind of fills the area and you start coughing, that's it. It hasn't gone your turn yet, so, it is now Raishan's turn. Legendary actions are restored.
Taliesin: I hate all of this. Oh, good, I was worried about her legendary actions. 
Marisha: Are you being facetious?
Taliesin: I don't know what that means.
Laura: Who's turn is it right now? -It's Raishan's?
Matt: It's Raishan's turn. Deciding what to do. Okay.
Taliesin: I don't know the meaning of the word.
Matt: Um...
Sam: This is fun. Just good, clean fun.
Matt: Percival.
Sam: Oh.
Matt: As you're running along the wall, and you glance in the vicinity, you see the cloud of poison kind of burst from the ground and you're just out of the range of it. I'm sorry, it's just within your range from where the--
Taliesin: I'm wearing my mask.
Matt: Yeah, you have your mask on.
Taliesin: I don't know if it actually helps, but there we are.
Travis: You look fabulous.
Matt: So, as you're standing kind of amongst this-- this fume, you see this within this, this cloud, a kind of strange burst of very, very faint light in your area and you feel, even in this heated room, a sudden surge of heat within your kind of torso region and then it fades.
Laura: What does it mean?! It's freaking me the fuck out.
Travis: She's blazing us, ya'll. She's lighting us up.
Laura: What if it's like--
Travis: Doesn't Hunter's Mark feel like something sometimes?
Laura: Oh my God, that's right. What if she's like marking us for death or something?
Matt: You now can faintly hear what sounds like... There are footsteps moving through the tunnels, but you're unable in the current chaos and the obscured vision to see where it's happening but there is movement happening above you throughout the cavern.
Taliesin: My save versus magic would not help with this at all. Cabal's Ruin would not help with this. Okay, just check.
Matt: Okay. That ends Raishan's turn. That's gonna bring us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay. Really unsure of what's going on, so I'm just going to...
Travis: Laser pointer right here.
Laura: Laser pointer.
Marisha: Thank you. I'm gonna go to that egg right here that Vax was wailing on.
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: And try and finish it off.
Matt: Okay, you move up and as you get to the edge of it, you can see now the light that your body's giving off. So, the fire elemental is glinting off of piles of gold and platinum that are kind of gathered around the egg. About a third of it is still submerged in volcanic rock and has been placed here for quite some time.
Laura: Don't let me die, I need to loot.
Matt: You can see the crack in the exterior of the egg and the kind of thick purplish amniotic fluid that is slowly dribbling down like a-- like a slow moving molasses or sap from the wound left behind by Vax.
Marisha: I'm gonna do two slam attacks.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: Multi attack. Uh, wait. Those were both nine's. Which is-- so 15 total. -To hit?
Matt: Fifteen to hit? It does hit, yes.
Marisha: Okay, and that is--
Matt: Only because he pre-damaged it to that point. You're basically attacking through the shell of the egg. Removed a portion of its armor, so otherwise--
Taliesin: You're punching a dragon fetus right now.
Marisha: I am totally punching a dragon--
Taliesin: That's like so eggs benedict.
Marisha: Plus six, so that's a ten. Fourteen, eighteen damage.
Matt: Okay. So, you plunge your flaming fist into the fluid. You hear it immediately sizzle as your fist goes into it. You punch something dense on the inside. (groaning)
Laura: Oh, you punched a baby dragon.
Liam: Good.
Laura: "Good."
Marisha: Okay, that's my turn.
Laura: In the head.
Matt: You did both of those slam attacks?
Marisha: Those were both-- those my attacks.
Matt: You rolled a 15 and a--
Marisha: I rolled two nine's and I have a plus six.
Matt: Oh!
Marisha: I rolled both of 'em twice.
Matt: Oh, oh, so you rolled 15 both times.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: Got you. Then how much damage did you total?
Marisha: Eighteen.
Matt: Eighteen from both attacks?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: Okay, cool. Alright, so, with both slams, the first fist goes in and slams and hits something. The second time you reach in and slamming, you grab it and pull out, as you kind of yank out of the egg just a little bit, you see what looks like the snout of a very tiny Thordak essentially. But whereas the red dragon you saw Thordak, that was like partially volcanic, crystalline with the burning eyes, this creature is seemingly made from pure primordial fire and rock. This is a whole new form of dragon.
Marisha: He made them clones.
Laura: What if he made-- what if it's one for every member of the Conclave?
Marisha: How many are there?
Laura: There's five eggs, but one is crushed and that would be Raishan and there would be nothing in it.
Sam: What?
Marisha: Wait, are we sure there was nothing in it?
Laura: I don't know.
Marisha: Do you want to go check and see if there was something in it?
Travis: Covered in rock, we can't see.
Marisha: Are there five-- there are five eggs?
Sam: Or he was making their own basketball team.
Matt: There are five eggs that you can see currently.
Liam: And they're all red, they're all red.
Matt: They're all red, yes.
Laura: Okay, well, they're all red. Maybe they're all Thordak's.
Marisha: They're little clones?
Taliesin: If they're clones, maybe it's literally five new breeds of dragon.
Laura: Oh my God.
Travis: Only one way to find out.
Marisha: Yeah, only one way to find out. -Let's bust open another one.
Laura: Is it still alive?
Taliesin: What do you call the little chocolate eggs?
Laura: Is it alive?
Marisha: Is it alive or did I kind of kill it by--
Matt: You kind of killed it. It's currently limp in your grasp.
Sam: Hey, you killed a dragon.
Laura: Good job.
Marisha: "I did it! I got one!"
Matt: Keyleth, the dragon snapper.
Taliesin: This is the like the Westworld version of killing a dragon.
Sam: How do you want to do this? Sunny side up. (laughing)
Taliesin: Benedict.
Matt: Perfect. You still have some movement, Keyleth, if you want to move still.
Marisha: I do, don't I. I want to start heading towards Vax.
Matt: Towards Vax this way, okay. What's your movement in fire elemental form?
Marisha: Fifty feet.
Matt: Fifty feet? You get about there, however, unaffected by fire and--
Marisha: And I'm, like, hovering.
Matt: You're comfortable in this.
Marisha: It's like a spa.
Matt: Kinda yeah. -It's tingly.
Marisha: It's like a hot spring.
Matt: It's perfect. Alright, that ends your turn. Gilmore, just at a full run gets up to the side here, and is kind of flanking. He enters the space, pushes up against the wall and just kind of surveys the territory. He looks spooked but also kind of in that, "Well, we're here" type mentality. Looks about the room and goes, "Everyone all right? Please tell me everyone's all right." (coughing) (whimpering) "Great." That ends Gilmore's turn as he just arrives. Grog. (roars) You just come sprinting in.
Travis: Can I smack Shaun's ass as I go by? Going, "Come on, Shaun."
Matt: Sure.
Liam: Shaun breaks in half.
Matt: You aren't stealthy, and as you run by, Shaun sees you about to swing and goes like, "Fine." Whack! Might have dislocated his hip. He's like... (strained laugh) "I'll charge you later."
Laura: That's gonna be a bruise on the ass for sure.
Matt: You get about there and you are-- Pike is technically on your space, kind of clutching to your shoulders. We'll say back here. Little Yoda backpack.
Travis: Do I get any additional movement or am I just here now?
Matt: You are a little bit behind everybody. You've just now caught up to everybody, and that's-- Just your full double run and you just arrived at the edge of the map.
Travis: "I'm here. Let the piatas begin."
Sam: "Okay, what's a piata?"
Travis: "I don't know, I thought it was a celebration. -Is it not?"
Marisha: You should ask Sam.
Sam: Hola, me llamo Sam Riegel.
Marisha: Yeah, there you go.
Taliesin: Donde est la biblioteca?
Matt: Alright, that'll bring us to Vex's turn.
Laura: Oh, okay, alright.
Matt: At the top of your turn, the poison has filled your lungs and while you suffer no damage, you are incapacitated. You are just in a coughing fit, almost falling off of your broom. Like sliding off to the side and just... (coughing) And you just can't do anything.
Laura: I can't do anything?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: It was a whole fucking turn?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Gone.
Marisha: So, both the twins have no turns.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: The poison has completely filled you to the point where you're seizing. You feel the muscles tightening up, and--
Laura: It's not hurting me--
Matt: It's not hurting you, but you're unable to do anything.
Travis: Sulfurous gas. It wrecks your shit.
Liam: Welcome to Hot Pepper Gaming.
Laura: That's good, because you know what? I didn't have anything planned and it would have been a cluster fuck like last time, so fuck it.
Matt: Vax. You currently are just kinda like... (gasping) Taking a breath, your vision kind of blurs for a moment and you can see the double vision trying to align. It comes in to focus and you see Keyleth's fire elemental form kind of gliding across. You see the edge of your sister currently shadowed against this cloud of toxic, sulfurous gas that is spewed up from the ground. You can hear her coughing in the distance. You see a bunch of your allies now beginning to just show up on the outside of the room's kind of lit interior, and it takes you the full round to kind of catch your breath.
Liam: No movement either, yeah?
Matt: Let me double check actually. I'm pretty sure... Let me see here.  Can't move or take actions until next turn, so no. Alright, so that ends the end of Vax's turn. Let's see, at the end of your turn. There is going to be...
Liam: This is fucking-- (indistinct whispering)
Sam: Did I--did I get a turn? No, I did mine already.
Matt: Yeah, we're gonna get to yours.
Liam: I'm still in the same position 15 feet up that I was.
Matt: You are, yes. Yeah, your wings are just like... Grog, you see this kind of faint glimmer of energy around you and you instinctually kind of like... (grunts) (growls) But no temperature change. Nothing seems to happen.
Travis: Do I smell anything?
Matt: You smell sweaty gnome on metal armor.
Laura: "Sorry."
Travis: "Honestly, really? I mean, come on."
Liam: "I'm just a little nervous is all."
Travis: "Did you eat mustard pretzels before this, my god?"
Liam: "Maybe."
Laura: "You know how they make me calm."
Travis: Calm?
Sam: Double Ashley is the best Ashley.
Matt: Kima's running, desperately trying to catch up. But she's not quite in the battlefield yet. It's Pike's go.
Liam: Pike, Pike, it's your turn.
Laura: Okay, okay.
Liam: Yeah, let's buff everybody.
Laura: Yeah, so she's gonna cast-- what she should do mass--
Marisha: Is there anything that could help with the stuff that has been magically cast on us?
Taliesin: We don't actually know what's been done.
Laura: Oh, on everybody and it's 30 feet. How far-- Can she move up and get-- How many people can she get in a 30 foot cone?
Matt: A 30 foot cone?
Laura: A 30 foot radius.
Matt: From where she is, it's six squares.
Liam: But she can move forward.
Matt: She can move 25 squares right now. She's been on Grog's back. She can kind of like leap off and--
Liam: But she could get closer to--to Vex, right?
Laura: Vex and Percy and Grog?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: She's right here, she can move this way or this way or wherever you want.
Laura: Let's-- okay.
Marisha: Here, guys.
Travis: Here's a pointer.
Marisha: Laser pointer.
Liam: If she gets near Vex, then she can get Grog, Gilmore, Percy.
Laura: Maybe like in that area?
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Laura: Or like, no.
Liam: Closer to Percy.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: This-- she'll just be on the outskirts of getting Percy and can get all the rest of you guys.
Liam: Keyleth as well?
Taliesin: She doesn't really need it.
Liam: Why not?
Matt: She can just catch Keyleth.
Laura: Yeah, sweet, that's great. Then she casts Beacon of Hope from there.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: What did that do, oh, that was--
Laura: That gives you advantage on wisdom saving throws, death saving throws, regains max number of hit points for healing.
Matt: Or it would, possibly.
Sam: Oh, shit. There's interferon.
Liam: Gilmore stabs Vax.
Laura: I'm hitting him with the laser.
Sam: Don't blind our DM.
Taliesin: I can't see the die, I'm gonna assume it was an natural 20.
Matt: I'd roll again. There we go, that's we're looking for. Okay. It's a natural 20, so yeah. There is a burst of greenish blue arcane energy that just kind of... around Pike as she tries to cast the spell. The spell fizzles.
Marisha: She got counter spelled.
Laura: Oh! I hate her!
Travis: We're in a no magic zone.
Laura: No, it's just--
Sam: No magic works here. Don't even try.
Laura: Alright.
Travis: Just ruins everything I was gonna do.
Laura: Great.
Taliesin: It's okay, she burned a counterspell.
Laura: Great.
Matt: Scanlan, your turn.
Sam: I move as far as I can.
Matt: You...
Sam: Did I make it in?
Matt: Running up, you're like just on the outskirts. You get caught up right about there in the center of the room. That's as far as you can get.
Sam: Alright. Can I yell out?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: "Where's Raishan?"
Laura: (coughing)
Liam: "Ceiling."
Travis: "I just got here."
Liam: "She's in the fucking ceiling, man."
Sam: "She's in the ceiling?"
Liam: "Yeah."
Laura: (coughing)
Liam: I'm sorry  Alien. Ceiling!
Marisha: They're in the walls. The goddamn walls.
Matt: It would have taken you moving action to get there. You have a bonus if you want to take it.
Sam: Bonus? Bonus, I will-- shit.
Taliesin: You'll shit?
Sam: Bonus.
Liam: True to form.
Sam: No, I'll heal myself again. I'll do a second level.
Matt: Healing Word?
Sam: Healing Word.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: So that's 2d4 plus--
Matt: 2d4 plus six, yeah.
Marisha: Oh, yay.
Sam: Twelve, okay.
Marisha: That's better, that's good. Good job. Good job.
Sam: Gerd jerb.
Taliesin: Gerd jerb.
Sam: Great, I'll take it. Back up to something.
Matt: Perfect. Let's see here. That ends Scanlan's turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Alright, I'm gonna use Animus and I'm gonna take some potshots at that egg that's on the other side of Grog.
Matt: Over here?
Taliesin: Yeah. Is that one of the dead one or is that the--
Matt: That was the one that Keyleth just punched.
Taliesin: That you just punched through?
Marisha: Uh-huh.
Taliesin: Okay, in that case, I'm gonna keep--
Matt: You see no other eggs where you currently are.
Matt: Except the one that's right over here. You could technically fire at the one that's across the way.
Taliesin: I'm gonna actually start walking along the wall. This way as far as I can go.
Liam: Oh, he's sticking to it, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: That's cool.
Laura: Hey, look, an egg.
Taliesin: And I know, like, I'm too close to shoot at that egg, but I can shoot at--
Marisha: It's like an Easter egg hunt.
Laura: But you're above it. Aren't you high on the wall?
Taliesin: Technically, I am far away enough from it that I shouldn't--
Matt: Do you want to go further on here or on this alcove here?
Taliesin: Further like-- like this direction. I want to head this way.
Matt: Okay, so you're moving across the wall. You end at about there at full movement.
Taliesin: Okay, and I'm too close to the egg to get a clean shot at it right now, right?
Matt: Well, I mean--
Taliesin: I've got some height, so.
Matt: Yeah, you could--
Taliesin: I'm using a one-handed, so. I'm gonna fire with Animus. I'm gonna take three pot shots at it with Sharpshooter. Shot number one. Yay, that could have been terrible. -26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Taliesin: Should I just roll all three and then do damage?
Matt: Sure.
Taliesin: Okay. 26, um, 14.
Matt: Fourteen does not hit.
Taliesin: That's fine.
Marisha: Oh, man. 
Taliesin: And 16.
Matt: Sixteen does not hit.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm firing really terribly, but that's okay.
Liam: Hanging off a wall.
Taliesin: Hanging off a wall, this is new. Let me get my dice. That's alright. Twenty-three points of damage plus four psychic damage.
Matt: Okay. Alright, so, first shot. It pierces through and actually cracks part of the egg. You can see it's almost like a spider spiral where the egg interior cracks inward. It pierces and a little bit of dark liquid begins to pool out of it. That's as much as you make as the next two shots seem to ricochet off of its hard shell.
Taliesin: Alright, that's my-- Yeah, I'm just gonna use my bonus to reload and take some more shots.
Travis:  Dancing on the ceiling   Oh, what a feeling 
Sam: Best music video.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: It's like a piata. No s?
Matt: Okay. Suddenly, the entire lair begins to shake.
Travis: Shit.
Taliesin: Goddammit.
Matt: Like this tremor begins to emanate from the ceiling portion of this. Pieces of rock begin to... Fall from the ceiling. I need... The guys who are flying, so, Keyleth, Vax and Vex, don't worry about this. Everyone else, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Even me, I'm barely in the room?
Matt: It's a big radius.
Sam: I got one foot out. What is it dex--?
Matt: Dexterity.
Taliesin: That's better.
Travis: Ten.
Sam: Seventeen.
Taliesin: Fifteen.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Five.
Matt: Five, okay. -Pike...
Laura: Oh, I'm sorry.
Travis: Grog both lose your footing and plummet backward. Gilmore rolls a natural 20, he's fine.
Laura: Hey!
Marisha: Hey!
Matt: "Oh ho. Great dodger, since I was 12." Yeah, Percy, you mange to just barely hold on without losing your the--
Taliesin: Thankfully my spider sense tingled.
Matt: Oh!
Marisha: Oh!
Matt: I almost want you to just go home for that.
Taliesin: Now I'm gonna fall.
Travis: A whole bunch of cheese here.
Matt: Yep. Okay. That ends the lair action.
Laura: Next turn with disadvantage. (laughing)
Matt: It is now Raishan's turn.
Laura: Oh, that was a lair action?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Oh, Jesus.
Travis: We should just call that Raishan's turn.
Matt: Nah. You watch as through the cloud of lightning that's kind of swirling, a small dragon-like form just pierces through momentarily. It's still see-through. You can see the rest of the swirling storm around it, but it's enough of that Predator-like appearance, where it just shapes and shimmies, or shimmers through the vicinity. It shimmies through. As it does, you watch this claw kind of lift up as this low echoing voice... (whispering in foreign language)
Laura: This is all of us with the light. All of us with the heat.
Taliesin: Okay, what is this?
Laura: It's gonna do something, I know it.
Taliesin: We're-- we're all--
Matt: Okay, 30 foot cubes.
Taliesin: We're all just gonna turn inside out and that'll be the end.
Travis: We'll all turn into chickens.
Taliesin: It's gonna be like John Carpenter's The Thing.
Travis: And then the eggs will turn into big chickens.
Liam: First, we'll all mash together.
Taliesin: And then get separated out into equal piles.
Laura: Oh, geez.
Matt: Yeah, 30 foot cube. I can only get-- she can only get Vex, Pike and Grog, but I need the three of you to make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: Constitution?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Damn it!
Taliesin:  Constitution   Come on 
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: So, that's good. I don't get any bonus though. Twenty-one?
Taliesin: Nice.
Liam: Oh, thank God.
Travis: Twenty-seven.
Matt: Okay, and Pike?
Laura: Oh, oh. You roll for Pike.
Liam: Okay. She gets the meteor. I hope it's good. -It's a one.
Laura: Oh, no!
Matt: Well, Vex and Pike both failed.
Laura: Oh, that's as high as I get without a natural 20, man!
Matt: It's a spell DC of 22, I'm sorry.
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: You and Pike both suffer 57 points of necrotic damage.
Laura: Fucking shit!
Travis: Oh, fuck.
Matt: Grog, you take half as much. So, it'd be 28. Twenty-eight points necrotic damage. Suddenly, you feel the very air itself go gray. The color is taken from your vision and your life force is drawn out of you through Abi-Dalzim's Horrid Wilting.
Sam: Horde wilting?
Matt: Horrid wilting. The air is drawn from your lungs. You feel your skin crack and tighten against your skeleton.
Marisha: Adele Dazeem's--
Matt: Adele Dazeem's Horrid Wilting. (laughing)
Travis: Amazing, yes. Change it, don't ever say it right.
Matt: That's what it is now going forward.
Laura: Man!
Sam: Are you alive?
Laura: No, I'm-- I'm unconscious, so is Pike. -Both of us.
Matt: Oh, shit. Well, Pike is not unconscious. (gasps)
Laura: Pike came back.
Matt: Wait, did her armor get used last battle? -I don't think it did.
Laura: It didn't?
Travis: It got used once, where was it?
Taliesin: Previously, in a previous battle.
Laura: Against?
Taliesin: Fire giant.
Laura: Oh, yeah.
Taliesin: How do I remember this? That's horrifying.
Matt: The fire giant of--
Taliesin: At the battle at the--
Liam: In the fire fort.
Matt: To the fort, yes.
Laura: Oh, at Fort Daxio.
Liam: Yep, yep, yep.
Matt: You are correct.
Laura: Okay, so Pike's alive.
Matt: With how many hit points?
Marisha: Jesus, that was an eighth level necromancy spell.
Laura: No, no, no, she got five hit points.
Matt: So, Pike is at five hit points.
Laura: And are there any eggs within 15 feet of her?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: Is there a Raishan within 15 feet of her?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: Well, then, fuck it.
Matt: But Vex plummets out of the poison cloud off of her broom, slams into the ground and clatters, spinning and falling to the ground not moving.
Laura: Thanks for knocking over the little cube too. I like that added.
Taliesin: Backhanding it, no less.
Travis: Damn.
Matt: Alrighty.
Travis: Are there lasting effects from Adele Nazeem's wilting? Like are we halved or anything?
Matt: From what you know, no.
Laura: "From what you know."
Travis: It just sucks right now is all I know. Everything just sucks.
Sam: Jesus!
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So, that-- that is gonna end Raishan's turn. The form is still somewhat visible, though, transparent. It took her full movement to even get to that point.
Marisha: And where is she, she still on the ceiling?
Matt: To give you a position, right now...  It's right there.
Sam: Forty, fifty feet up?
Matt: Though transparent. It's 50 feet up.
Travis: Fuck.
Taliesin: Oh, don't do that then.
Laura: Oh, I just remembered.
Taliesin: You left the gas on.
Travis: And she's 40, 40 up?
Matt: Fifty feet up.
Sam: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Matt: So, Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Okay. I can still see her a little bit.
Sam: This is a dragon fight, guys.
Matt: Yeah, you can barely make out the-- the outline.
Marisha: Okay, so since she's in my cloud, I'm going to kind of like, do one of those sideways arcing lightning strikes. Just... and arc everything right towards that bitch.
Matt: Great, go for it.
Marisha: She just takes damage, right?
Matt: For Call Lightning, no, you have to roll-- No, sorry, a creature has to make a dexterity saving throw. So, what's your DC?
Marisha: Twenty.
Matt: Twenty?
Laura: How many lightnings are heading towards her?
Matt: Nineteen. Total of ten plus nine.
Marisha: Yes!
Travis: Wow!
Matt: That's 4d10.
Marisha: Yes, it is!
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: Lightning damage.
Marisha: Yep, yep! 4d10. -Okay, I rolled that.
Taliesin: You rolled well.
Marisha: I rolled okay. I actually rolled-- did roll real well. You're right, I rolled well. Nine, nine, 18. Plus eight, that is 26 damage.
Matt: Nice. You watch as the form tries to pull itself back into the cloud, the cloud lights up with this crackling reddish pink electrical energy that then turns to a bright burning red as it arcs past and slams into her. You watch the energy arc across the body of Raishan, the dragon. (snarling)
Taliesin: Does she have to make a concentration save?
Matt: She does.
Taliesin: To remain invisible?
Matt: Yeah, she's fine.
Travis: "Yeah, she's fine." Fifty-seven.
Marisha: I still have movement, right?
Matt: You do, yes. Your full movement, you haven't moved yet. You just pulled it down in that one moment.
Marisha: I am going to head towards the egg that got cracked open that's in the center there.
Matt: Over there?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. You can go all the way over to it.
Marisha: Can I do a bonus action to like, examine?
Matt: I mean, you can make a perception check and look at it. If you want to rummage through it, that'll probably take your action.
Marisha: Okay, I'll do just a perception check right now.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Twenty-three.
Matt: Okay, as soon as you rush up and get a glance at it, you can see that a lot of the dark, purplish maroon fluid that filled most of the egg is just coating the outside of the egg's shell and there are a series of rocks and pieces of rubble from the initial meteor swam impact that has just sundered this egg. It's about half the height of the others, it's just all that's been kinda collapsed inward. This egg is ruined.
Taliesin: So, we have two ruined eggs at this point.
Marisha: And no sign of a--
Sam: And one almost ruined.
Marisha: And no sign of a dragon baby?
Matt: Nothing you can see.
Marisha: Alright.
Taliesin: Might be just deep in there and flattened.
Marisha: Flattened, yeah, that's my turn.
Taliesin: Could have just been a bad egg.
Matt: Ending Keyleth's turn, that brings us to Gilmore. Gilmore watching this happen, watching Vex go down. Let's see what he does here. (indistinct muttering)
Marisha: Oh, that's funny.
Taliesin: Like five of them in here. Do something about this.
Matt: Okay, as Raishan's form is up there he goes, (sighs) "Not today, not ever!" And releases his hand like this and you watch as a burst of strangely shifting rippling arcane energy similar to the same ripple that is shrouding Raishan seems to kind of scatter up in that direction. He's going to attempt to...
Marisha: Come on.
Matt: With his successful dispel magic, Raishan-- the form becomes completely visible now. The invisibility has worn off. And is now standing completely visible. As this happens, Raishan... (snarls) "I will enjoy eating the flesh from your bones."
Sam: Oh. Did she say "balls"?
Laura: Yeah, definitely.
Matt: Definitely said balls. No.
Marisha: Dragon delicacy.
Matt: Gilmore is then going to... Gilmore goes from excitement to "Shit."
Travis: Not my balls!
Matt: He's going to-- knowing the tactics that are being used, he's gonna try to spread out form the rest of the group. Over here towards the destroyed egg across the wall. That's going to end Gilmore's turn. This brings us to Grog.
Travis: Uh, can I get up, please?
Matt: You can.
Taliesin: Get on up.
Laura: Get on up!
Travis: Can I see Vex sprawled out?
Matt: You do, yes.
Travis: Yeah, can I run to Vex?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: (humming) I have one really-- what's the really big potion? -Is it the Superior?
Liam: Superior.
Travis: I have one of those. Can I shove it in her gullet?
Matt: You can, it'll take your action to do it.
Laura: Oh. You don't have to Grog, it's okay. I mean--
Travis: Okay, I want you to reroll a character. Here we go. I'm going to take my axe and-- Yeah, I shove it in her mouth.
Matt: Superior, that is 8d4 plus 8.
Travis: Oh, I got to roll it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Oh, gee-- oh man.
Laura: Wait, 8d4. (indistinct) Whoa, 17.
Travis: Twenty-four.
Liam: Plus eight.
Travis: Thirty-two.
Laura: Thirty-two? That was insane, Grog!
Matt: So with that, your eyes come into focus, Vex, as you feel the clatter of glass against your teeth, the vial being pulled from your mouth. You kind of cough for a second. Come into conscious as Grog, in his giant form, cradling you like a tiny baby in his one giant mitt. Just kind of smiles.
Taliesin: It's like a Terry Gilliam movie.
Laura: "Thanks." (snarls) (laughing) Go rage!
Matt: Alright, don't forget you do have a point of exhaustion, as you've gone-- unless you've continued your rage this whole time, which you can, so never mind.
Travis: Yeah, just rolling through.
Matt: You got that now. You're just like a freak.
Travis: I might have chipped a tooth...
Laura: All good. All good, all good.
Travis: Like Mentos and Coke.
Matt: You're like drink it, drink it. Alright, great, that ends Grog's turn. Vex, you are conscious, prone, but conscious.
Laura: God, okay. Fuck. Can I shoot from my laying down position?
Matt: You can, I'd say your attacks would have disadvantage.
Laura: Okay, then I'm gonna get up on my knee and shoot up. Cause I just wake up and see her right above me, don't I?
Matt: Yep, you do.
Laura: Alright, then I'm gonna try to-- Oh wait, I already used Brambleshot, or at least, I tried to today.
Matt: You did, yeah.
Laura: So, I'm gonna shoot her.
Matt: Do it!
Laura: Can I Hunter's Mark her first, though?
Matt: You certainly can.
Laura: Hey! I don't get sneak attack. Nobody's near her, right?
Matt: That was-- that was great. Gilmore rolled a 19 on the dispel.
Laura: Nineteen?
Matt: Yeah, that was really good.
Laura: Oh, that's what I rolled.
Matt: Oh, did you?
Laura: As well.
Matt: Nice, look at that, you and Gilmore just synchronizing.
Matt: And 19's your total?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Misses.
Laura: Fuckin' A. That one, I hope, 28.
Matt: Hits.
Laura: Okay, so 28 on the second one. Oh God, what's happening?
Marisha: I don't know.
Laura: Sixteen plus three points of lightning.
Taliesin: I'm not gonna play that game, man. Not playing. I'm not playing this game no more. It's not the time.
Matt: Did you include your damage for it being a dragon?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Alright. So now you can see Raishan emerging from one of the volcanic caves. The storm's swirling around her, as she begins to pull back into it, you fire two arrows. One gets lost, the other one-- (snarling) Into the side of her throat.
Laura: Can I move-- can I move...
Matt: You move three squares.
Laura: Can I get on my broom?
Matt: You get onto your broom, yeah.
Laura: Like move a one square away.
Matt: One square?
Laura: Yeah. Away from Grog and Pike, yeah. Like that makes any difference, but--
Matt: Okay, perfect.
Taliesin: It's a start.
Laura: Thanks, Grog.
Travis: (snarls)
Matt: Ends Vex's turn, Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, just to clarify, so looking at the minis. The back side's to me, but really, her face is poking out of a hole, right?
Matt: Like the front half is.
Liam: Front half of her and she's-- and she's at the roof which is 70 feet up, so maybe her head is down, like, five feet out, ten feet out, something like that?
Matt: Roughly, yeah.
Liam: Alright, I want to, and I'm--I'm back, right? -After...
Matt: You have now-- Yeah, you've regained your composure. However your other potion has now worn off. -You are no longer--
Laura: Invulnerable?
Liam: I want to fly--
Laura: Oh!
Liam: Go ahead.
Laura: My hasted had worn off, right? I just assumed it had, okay.
Liam: So, if I'm 15 feet up and she's, maybe, 65 down, I'm within range for sharpshooter already.
Matt: Technically, yeah.
Liam: So, and-- and last question. When you do-- for duel wielding, action-- bonus action, but you told me once you can reverse that and do bonus action and action. I think.
Matt: The bonus attack is part of your attack action, so it's actually after your--
Liam: Never mind then. I'm gonna fly straight at her face, and I'm gonna shove the Dragon Slayer sword into her mouth and I want to try to sever her fucking tongue out of her mouth.
Sam: Oh!
Laura: Whoa!
Liam: Terrible. Whisper, I'm gonna do the same thing with the bonus action. That is 26.
Matt: Twenty-six to hit, that hits. 
Liam: Ten plus four, psychic damage 14.
Matt: Fourteen points of damage. Okay, so you go for the tongue and you get the blade up to the mouth. Suddenly, her looking down and having a very, very wide view of the entire battlefield is very advantageous from her perspective. She sees you out of the corner of her eye, she turns to try and snap at you, and the jaws come down and catch the blade. So, it doesn't go for the tongue, but you use that momentum to glide it up the actual tooth and jam it into the gum. You manage to slam up there and the blood spurts out from the wound and-- (snarls) Rears back and so now you're kind of flying up by her face now.
Liam: I should have like 10 or 15 movement left with 60 for wings, yeah? If I was 15 feet up and she was a little less than 70?
Matt: Fifteen feet up, yes, but you're also coming at an angle, which, you lose distance on that.
Liam: So am I at zero?
Matt: You're pretty much at zero, yeah.
Laura: Ooh, like right in front of her face.
Travis: Just stay there like Tinkerbell.
Liam: Okay. All done.
Matt: That ends your turn.
Travis: You are grounded.
Matt: At the end of your turn, she's going to use another legendary action. To do a tail attack against you. She pulls part of her torso out for a moment, and her tail whips out in your direction to try and slam into you. That is a 19 plus, what is it, 32.
Liam: Don't think that hits actually. So I'll use Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: That's gonna be 24 points of bludgeoning damage reduced to 12, so there you go. Alright, that brings us to Kima's turn. Kima finally arrives.
Marisha: Kima!
Sam: Hey!
Travis: Slow poke!
Matt: "Seriously?" That's her turn.
Travis: That Holy Avenger's real heavy.
Matt: So that brings us to Pike. Actually, no at the end of Kima's turn, let's see here. Raishan's gonna use another legendary action to attempt another tail attack against you, since you're within range. -That is a...
Liam: 10,000.
Matt: Twenty-one to hit.
Liam: Shit, it just hits.
Matt: Just hits? Okay. Seventeen points of bludgeoning damage. Yeah, go and halve that. She's used all of her legendary actions for this round. Okay.
Travis: All legendary-- did you hear that?
Matt: Pike.
Travis: Pike's up.
Laura: Okay. I think we should do... But okay, if she does Flame Strike can she focus it on the ceiling? Or does it have to be on the ground?
Matt: No, it can-- I'd say-- let me pull it up real fast here. It roars down from the Heavens in all locations, so it doesn't come out of the floor, it comes out of the ceiling, so yeah.
Laura: Okay. So, it's her level five spell.
Liam: Okay, aim it at--
Laura: At Raishan? At Raishan's butt, not at Vax.
Matt: Raishan currently, only visible, is about maybe 10 feet or so of-- actually pulling out the tail attack, I'd say about 15 feet. So if she's careful, yeah, she could probably hit Raishan and not hit Vax.
Laura: Pike is always careful.
Travis: So careful.
Laura: She's the carefulest.
Matt: Fair enough.
Laura: Okay. So, wow, that's a really big-- Sixty feet, damn.
Travis: That's good shit.
Laura: So, that's 4d6 plus 4d6 radiant.
Matt: It's gonna be close. Yeah, roughly about 55 feet up on the ceiling. With that 60 foot range, she can just hit Raishan with the column, so yeah.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So that is 8d6 damage.
Laura: Okay, wow.
Matt: Go ahead and roll that. Raishan makes a save--
Laura: I roll five and you roll three.
Matt: So a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: Oh, just kidding.
Matt: Twenty-seven, I'm pretty sure that saves.
Laura: No, I want to roll some. I roll, I'll roll three. You roll five. 
Liam: Eighteen.
Laura: Thirteen.
Matt: And also makes a concentration check from your attack earlier.
Laura: Thirty-five.
Sam: No.
Laura: No.
Sam: Thirty-one.
Laura: Thirty-one.
Matt: Thirty-one?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: So half that to 15. Fifteen points of damage.
Marisha: Benefit of the doubt.
Matt: Alright, cool, got it.
Laura: Why half?
Taliesin: She made her saving throw.
Travis: At 27.
Matt: Sorry. So, you just barely move out of the way as you watch a familiar gathering of radiant energy up in the ceiling. You see the glimmer in the corner of Raishan's slick eyeballs recessed within the green armor-plated face. of the dragon as all of a sudden-- A great column of fire and radiant energy blasts Raishan in the side of the face.
Laura: And she's gonna back up towards the opening towards the entrance a bit. -Yeah, like right there.
Matt: Right there? That's as far as she can get right there. Cool.
Sam: Does she have a bonus action?
Laura: She's got a bonus action.
Sam: Heal herself?
Marisha: Is it Healing Word?
Laura: Oh, yeah, she can, right? 'Cause she can use a level two or less. So, yeah, she'll do a level-- she doesn't have any level two's left. She'll do a level one Healing Word on herself.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh, God, she's at five hit points.
Sam: Yeah, I know.
Taliesin: Not anymore.
Laura: She's--she's Pike though. This is what she would have done.
Taliesin: She's now at--
Laura: I think.
Taliesin: What does the level one Healing Word do?
Sam: It's 1d4 plus five or something like that.
Marisha: It does an additional d4.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Right? No, sorry, just one d4.
Laura: One d4 plus five, so yeah, seven.
Taliesin: So, she's at 12 hit points now.
Sam: Double dig!
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: That's better.
Marisha: Double dig!
Taliesin: That's--
Sam: What's that look, Matt?
Travis: Seven points of healing, so yeah.
Matt: Cool, does that end your turn?
Travis: Yep.
Liam: Yep.
Matt: Good, Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Okay. I don't know, man, this looks rough in here. I don't want to be in here. (laughing) I'll move forward and to the left a bit.
Matt: That's about as far as you can go.
Sam: Sorry, to my right. To the right, four to the right. Oh, man. It's a rough fight. But we're winning, right, now, guys? We're winning, we don't need any help, do we?
Laura: (gasps)
Liam: Did you forget?
Laura: I totally forgot!
Marisha: How could you forget? It's like all I've thought about.
Travis: I will cuddle you, I will cuddle.
Laura: I even wrote--
Taliesin: He's not gonna do it until Ashley's dead.
Laura: I wrote a limerick.
Marisha: Ashley is almost--
Sam: You wrote a limerick?
Laura: For you.
Sam: For me? To do what?
Laura: Wait, wait, I forgot I did it. "Have you heard tale of Scanlan, the bold? He won't tell us his age, but he's old. With his blade, he's a slayer, with the ladies, a player, but if he picks up the flute, he's pure gold."
Marisha: Hey! (applause, laughing)
Sam: Alright, so I'm gonna do Lightning Bolt.
Laura: Goddammit! (laughter)
Sam: I will-- I assume that Scanlan feels strange with a brass flute touching his lips, because he's never played one before.
Matt: This is true.
Sam: But does it still come out just as beautiful and pure as always?
Matt: Roll a performance check.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: I'm so nervous, I'm about to cry.
Sam: Thirty.
Marisha: Oh!
Matt: In the midst of this chaos, the rumbling of the room, the sound of the lightning and thunder in the clouds, the falling of rock and soot from the ceiling is drowned out by what sounds like the most beautiful clear flute. It just trills... (whistling)
Sam:  Call the dragon  (all humming)  Call the dragon 
Matt: You finish the song as you watch the brass glow. It begins to kinda give this-- this weird shine around it that begins to emanate this kind of additional warmth and light from it and then it dulls and the brass goes to a very tarnished dark metal material.
Taliesin: It's Amazon Prime. It's gonna take three days but it's gonna be here.
Sam: I've played better.
Matt: You watch the flute ping in the hallway behind him. -So that's your action.
Sam: Okay. As a bonus, I will-- Boy, everyone's dying, right?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: Pike's near me, so I'll turn and give her a level two Healing Word.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: As well. And I will sing to her:  I've got Mythcarver in my pocket   Got that sunshine on my feet   When I dance and prance around you   You just stop   Hoo! 
Marisha:  Hoo! 
Sam:  And I dance so very handsome   And I sing phenomenally   There's just something bout that gnome   That makes me smile   Woo! 
Marisha:  Woo! 
Matt: Alrighty.
Matt: Pike takes her inspiration die.
Sam: Uh, no, not inspiration, healing, healing. So, wait, I got to roll or she rolls?
Matt: You roll for her.
Sam: Okay, ooh. Oh, boy. (groaning) (laughter)
Sam: Eight.
Matt: She heals eight points.
Sam: She's up to 20!
Taliesin: She can almost drink.
Marisha: She can drink next year.
Matt: Alrighty, ending Scanlan's turn, brings us to the top. Percival, your turn.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to... Yeah, this is fine.
Sam:  Can't stop 
Taliesin: I'm going to-- this is fine. I'm going to take some shots with Animus at that awful bastard at the top of the cave. First shot, and I'm not making it a sharpshooter shot, I'm just shooting. That's good too. Oh, that's not bad, 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Taliesin: Alright.
Laura: Look at all those pots of gold in the corners.
Taliesin: That's 13 points plus five points of psychic damage.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And another shot.
Travis: Shot.
Taliesin: And that's, uh, that's-- Oh, that's not bad. That's two points of psychic damage to me.
Matt: Oh, buddy!
Sam: He's already unhinged.
Taliesin: So that's 54. So, that was like thankfully, just an ow! I'm just putting it away. I'm just gonna try and pull-- pull out the big gun and take one last shot while I'm-- while I'm-- well, actually, no, that knocks out my attacks, doesn't it? Cause it's a psychic damage.
Matt: Well, I was gonna say, the psychic damage doesn't negate your attacks.
Taliesin: I don't have time to switch guns. No, cause the psychic damage knocks that out if I recall.
Matt: No, psychic damage doesn't affect the way--
Taliesin: So, do I have time to just try and get one more potshot out or am I--
Matt: Was Bad News prepared?
Taliesin: It was fine, it was working fine.
Matt: It was fine.
Taliesin: Yeah. Nothing's broke, well, now...
Matt: Now it is, yeah.
Taliesin: Now that's broken, okay. So, and now Bad News, here we go.
Liam: Come on, Golden Snitch! Do it!
Taliesin: Natural 20!
Laura: Yes!
Travis: On cue! (cheering)
Taliesin: Thank you, baby. Okay.
Matt: So, that'll hit.
Taliesin: Yeah, let's-- let's take-- Let's take--
Sam: Weird critical things here?
Taliesin: I don't do any weird critical thing other than doing a lot of damage.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Although, where's my-- I do have, okay, so-- That does a lot of damage. (talking over each other)
Marisha: Amazing.
Taliesin: Double dice.
Travis: Come on, you deranged--
Liam: Find one thing and do it well.
Taliesin: Not bad, okay, that's-- 31 points of damage.
Matt: Alright.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: Very nice.
Taliesin: Yeah, it's 4d12, plus six, so. And now I'm gonna hide behind that dragon egg.
Matt: Alright, so you move behind the dragon egg right there.
Taliesin: Yep. Oh, and that means I get a grit point back ah-ha! I can actually do a thing, that's good. Okay, alrighty.
Sam: So, things are turning around ever since that limerick.
Liam: Watch this, I'm gonna get turned into pulled pork right now.
Matt: Well, it's the lair actions now. So in this one...
Taliesin: The Earth itself turns against us. (rumbles)
Matt: From beneath your feet, Grog, you feel and you look down just as the rock splits and a spray of-- a tiny geyser of molten rock just sprays outward. You try and move out of the way in time, but sprays across you, Pike, Scanlan and Vex. So I need you guys all to make dexterity saving throws.
Laura: You want to make it for me?
Sam: Natural 20, 25.
Matt: Whoo! That'll do.
Taliesin: There's nothing natural about 25. Purely artificial, you've had work done on that 20.
Sam: This is LA.
Taliesin: This is LA.
Marisha: Lot of LA things right back to back. -It's overwhelming.
Taliesin: Man.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21? Succeeds.
Laura: Twenty.
Matt: Succeeds, Pike?
Liam: Eleven for Pike.
Matt: Pike does not succeed.
Sam: 20, 25.
Matt: Succeed, alright, so, you guys who all succeeded, you take 12 points of fire damage. Half of you are resistant.
Sam: So six.
Matt: Just six. Pike takes 12 points of fire damage because she's resistant even though she failed her save.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Oh, that's good. That's good.
Laura: So she's still up.
Sam: She's still alive!
Taliesin: She's still alive.
Sam: Because of me, let's just go on record and say that.
Taliesin: I'll go with that.
Liam: Can you say it in Spanish?
Sam: No, I cannot.
Taliesin: Pike.
Sam: Yo no soy Marinado. Alright, that brings us back to Raishan's turn.
Laura: Oh God, oh God.
Matt: Gets her legendary actions back.
Travis: It's cool, you can just go.
Matt: Given the current circumstance...
Taliesin: No. No.
Matt: Raishan is going to unleash...
Travis: Handshake?
Matt: She's going to unleash a full round of attacks against you as you are right up in her face and stabbed her in the gums and avoided the entirety of her meteor swarm and you also attacked her.
Taliesin: In defense, she had some corn stuck in her--
Laura: Yeah, he really was helping. It'd been there for like--
Matt: And she appreciates that, but the rest of the stuff is still a problem.
Taliesin: I'm trying not to say anything.
Matt: That is 22 to hit with a bite.
Liam: That just hits, Uncanny Dodge.
Sam: Maybe you should remind her that we have a deal. We're supposed to be working together.
Matt: 22, well, yeah, so they all hit.
Sam: What happened to our deal, Raishan?
Liam: The first one is Uncanny and then the rest are--
Matt: Correct, so the bite attack is halved. Which is good. That'll be 22 points of piercing damage and you got the warm tingle earlier, right? You also suffer ten points of poison damage.
Sam: Ten points of poison?
Laura: Even though he's immune to poison?
Matt: He's not immune to poison.
Laura: He's not?
Matt: No.
Liam: Not from that-- so that our Hero's Feast does nothing.
Laura: It was Dispel, she dispelled our Heroes' Feast. That's what that fucking shit was.
Travis: Oh!
Liam: Is that the total--
Matt: That was the bite attack. So that whole attack is halved. The poison damage and the piercing you took is halved. The claw attack...
Sam: There was a shimmering and you didn't feel anything.
Matt: 26 points of piercing damage.
Liam: Vax is falling. (gasps)
Sam: Oh, no.
Matt: And the tail bats you on the way down. You guys watch as the darkened wings of Vax go limp and he just plummets.
Marisha: Oh, boy.
Sam: That's gonna be--
Matt: Roll a d20.
Laura: Oh, God.
Liam: Is this a death save?
Matt: No, this is a trajectory.
Marisha: Oh my God, please don't land in the lava.
Matt: You smack right into the edge, but not into the magma river. You hear the cracking sound of bones breaking upon impact and the wings themselves broken. Feathers falling and burning within the molten rock. The wings slowly fold in and curl like a spider dying and vanish.
Liam: That sucks.
Sam: Forever?
Laura: No, not forever!
Taliesin: He just went unconscious.
Matt: And with that...
Taliesin: Something's gotta be done about that.
Travis: You are Anakin on the riverbed.
Marisha: Totally.
Taliesin: Magma is practically like your arch nemesis to be fair.
Liam: I don't-- I don't know.
Matt: Raishan is going to move. (pieces crash) (shouts)
Matt: Kima, no!
Marisha: Poor Kima!
Sam: Bye. I just got here! (indistinct talking)
Matt: Alrighty. And as she emerges now, after knocking you out of the air, wings fully out, Raishan... (snarling) "You're next." And then swoops over and is now floating over the lava pool over that way. And appears to be preparing for something.
Liam: Have I got any automatic fails in a death save?
Matt: Yes, you did fail a death saving throw from hitting the ground.
Liam: Hitting the ground?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: As she does that, I yell out, "Could you be more specific? Who is next, who? Oh, we didn't see who you were looking at over here. No? Alright, guess we'll find out."
Travis: I was so preoccupied, I missed it.
Matt: That ends Raishan's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay, so Keyleth, pretty pissed off from seeing her boyfriend spiked from the sky. I'm going to kinda get a few, well, no, I guess I can stay here. Kind of above the lava create a swirling angry lava vortex of lightning and fire and I'm gonna hit her again with lightning.
Matt: Okay. Make her save. Save 12 plus nine that is 21, which does save.
Marisha: Yeah, she saved.
Matt: So takes half damage, so 14 then halved.
Marisha: Okay, not too bad. Twelve, 14 plus seven, 21 total. Half damage.
Matt: Okay, so ten points of lightning damage.
Marisha: Not great.
Matt: Okay, did you want to move or you gonna stay where you are?
Marisha: Um...
Taliesin: You can't heal as a bonus action, can you?
Marisha: No, I can't do anything. Does-- does Vax look like he's about to fall in the lava?
Matt: Vax is approximately one foot from the edge of the river.
Sam: One third my size.
Travis: Is it flat or is it...
Matt: It's slightly domed in.
Marisha: Do you have flame resistance right now? Yeah, you said you're flame resistant.
Taliesin: On the armor.
Marisha: Okay, so I'm gonna use my movement then. I'm gonna be very careful to make sure I touch the armor, the Raven Queen armor and I'm going to see if I can just fire elemental like roll him away from the edge a little bit.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: The armor is set to flame resistance.
Matt: Yes, it is.
Travis: I thought you were saying you were gonna like roll him in the lava.
Marisha: It's been nice. (talking over each other)
Matt: I will say-- I will say the touch of a fire elemental ignites whatever it touches. It's kind of the essence of the element.
Marisha: But he has fire resistance.
Matt: Right, which means he'll take half damage from any fire that you deal. However, being the fact that you are in control of your form you're not trying to hurt something, I would say that you could carefully push him aside and I'll allow you a death saving throw as opposed to just taking straight damage.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: I'm making a--
Liam: I'm rolling an advantage.
Matt: An advantage because of your armor, yeah.
Liam: Twelve, succeed. So, we're good, we're good.
Marisha: We're cool, we're good.
Sam: Here, let me help you. Oh God, I killed him.
Liam: I feel like in another dimension this didn't go so well.
Matt: So you kind of roll him over...
Marisha: That would be the most Keyleth thing to do. I love you so-- oh God, I killed the thing I love.
Sam: Oh my God, George, I hugged the puppy really hard.
Liam: No, no, no!
Marisha: I'm sorry, George.
Matt: You barely move him, you only get him five feet from being so careful. You could have moved him further, but he would have-- been ignited in the process.
Travis: Oh my God.
Taliesin: I got that extension so bad.
Matt: Does that end your turn?
Marisha: I'm gonna then take a few steps back away from him now.
Matt: Okay, back this way, back where you were?
Marisha: Yeah, yes.
Travis: You would have turned into a vestige.
Taliesin: I don't got to pretend I'm (indistinct).
Matt: Okay, that ends your turn?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. At the end of your turn. Raishan is still overhead and casts a spell.
Liam: Duvet, Duvall?
Travis: Duvet.
Matt: Alrighty. You watch as Raishan over on the edge... her front claws begin to form this strange geometric sigil in the middle of the air and each corner of it is a different color. Green, orange, yellow, red, purple, blue. And suddenly this giant burst--
Sam: Can I try to counterspell her?
Matt: What's the range on that?
Sam: 60 feet, am I just there?
Marisha: Come on, Scanlan.
Laura: Oh God, Scanlan.
Travis: What is she casting?
Matt: She's within range!
Laura: Oh, God!
Taliesin: Please, please! Please kill it!
Matt: d20 add six.
Sam: Eighteen.
Matt: You rolled an 18?
Sam: No, I rolled a 12.
Matt: You rolled a 12, that's an 18 total? It is a... Hold on a second.
Taliesin: God, I can't breathe.
Matt: I'm pretty sure...
Sam: I get a plus two for--
Matt: Right, oh, I know. The sigil-- as the burst of colored light begins to spray forward, you watch as it just... (cheering)
Laura: Scanlan! MVP!
Liam: Vax wakes up for two seconds, says, "You da man!" and then lies back down. (laughter)
Matt: Shit. I never get to use Prismatic Spray.
Travis: That was a day ruiner, right? Day ruiner. (talking over each other) There's no chance that was like a healing spray, was it?
Liam: Probably not.
Travis: Like the gesture of surrender?
Liam: It was kind of like rainbows.
Taliesin: It's the angriest Captain Planet-- it's just the worst--
Marisha: Like the most fucked up Care Bear stare.
Matt: Alright, so, as the spell dissipates... Raishan angrily...
Sam:  You got eggs and you gonna lose 'em   You got eggs 
Laura: Oh God.
Matt: Alright, so that ends-- that ends Keyleth's turn. That brings us to Gilmore. Now, Gilmore over here is-- what else does he have left in the tank here? He's gonna do a level four Lightning Bolt.
Taliesin: Chromatic spray.
Sam: Chromatic spray could have been many things though.
Taliesin: Yes, but they're all bad. -It's a wheel of death.
Sam: And they're all bad. One of them's like 70 points of...
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Of just-- just goop.
Marisha: Each color is like bad.
Matt: Gilmore is going to...
Taliesin: It's a great way of dealing with people who are-- who are attuned to deal with you. (indistinct talking)
Taliesin: You were looking at that for a while.
Sam: Yeah, I was, it was good. -It looks good.
Taliesin: It's really good. -It's very you too.
Sam: Rainbow colored.
Matt: Sorry.
Laura: Check out those Gilmore t-shirts.
Matt: I know, sorry, I'm checking to make sure he can do this cause this is what he's trying to do.
Liam: Gilmore's wearing one right now.
Sam: Hey, Laura, are those key chains laser etched?
Laura: Why, they are! It's so funny you should ask.
Sam: Wow, what about the--
Laura: So precise.
Sam: Did I say the key chain or the necklace? What about the necklace?
Matt: So, Gilmore-- Gilmore runs up. And just vanishes from his place and instantly blinks up over into this area using his misty step as his bonus action. And looks upward. "How do you like it?" Raises his hand and pulls this way. You watch as this necromantic energy begins to gather around his hands. A familiar spell to you, Keyleth. As you watch the diseased blackened veins up the side of Raishan's body begin to spread and grow momentarily and kind of begin to-- to dig their way into her throat. She begins to pull backward, unfamiliar with this sudden internal pain. Rolls a natural 20 for her save. But regardless, that's still--
Laura: I like how he genuinely looked kind of disappointed though that he rolled a 20.
Travis: I think he's just--
Laura: It made me-- it made me feel great.
Liam: He's a really good actor.
Sam: See, we're not even gonna need the flute guy.
Laura: I hope he shows up. I hope he's not like...
Taliesin: No, a month from now he's gonna show up.
Travis: Attacking like his carry-on?
Sam: He's at TSA right now. "I have nothing else metal on me. I don't-- oh, I'm bronze."
Matt: Seventeen points of necrotic damage to Raishan with the save. That's Gilmore's turn there. That brings us to... Grog.
Travis: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Your dragon-based humor is way too tight right now.
Travis: Can I run over with Shaun?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Can I attach the Chain of Returning to the axe?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Then, can I swing it really hard and go, "Yeah, catchphrase!" and throw it up. (laughter)
Matt: Yes, you can.
Travis: Good, reckless, please.
Matt: Yes, you may.
Sam: Laura.
Travis: That's a natural 20.
Marisha: Whoo!
Matt: Oh, shit! Alright.
Travis: Oh, and with the brutal critical, I get two additional...
Matt: Yeah, two additional d12's to that, so roll the die first. Plus don't forget you double the necrotic die.
Travis: Yeah, I do double it?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Yes!
Travis: That's a six, so that's 12. I'm enlarged. Where's the triangle, who took the triangle?
Laura: I don't-- here you go.
Taliesin: You got like valley girl on that. "Who took the triangle?"
Travis: That's 29 and then two additional d12.
Matt: Correct.
Travis: Nine, 38. Ten, 48.
Matt: 48? Okay.
Laura: Did you double those extras? Do you double those dice as well?
Travis: No.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Brutal critical, you get two additional damage die on my roll.
Matt: Okay, so, as you rush up, "Catchphrase!" and throw the axe sideways. It arcs upward and Raishan is currently kind of reeling from the dispel and angrily yelling into the room in draconic. Gets partway into a phrase, just finishing... (roaring) The axe just jams into the side of her collarbone and front torso area and... The axe is still kind of wedged there, are you gonna pull back?
Travis: Yeah, I'll pull it back.
Matt: So go ahead and roll your...
Taliesin: I don't know why you're looking over here for that.
Travis: Yeah, I got it. 23.
Matt: So, yanking the axe, dislodges itself and you catch it. You see it's covered in Raishan blood. As you pull the axe back, you watch as something just, like, a flash of arcane energy around her, and some sort of spell, uncast by her, just seemingly automatically just kind of surrounds her and her flying begins to speed up.
Laura: She got hasted?
Marisha: But how?
Laura: How?
Travis: I didn't know I was this powerful. What the fuck happened?
Laura: How did she get hasted?
Liam: Well, we'll find out.
Laura: What if the brass dragon's helping her?
Taliesin: Or what if the eggs are helping her?
Matt: Yeah, you have maybe 15 more feet.
Taliesin: I don't know, I just like putting things out there.
Travis: Rolling towards that end of the map as far as I go.
Matt: This end, sure.
Laura: That end of the map.
Travis: Can I go that way? Yeah, that's cool. -Cool.
Matt: Great.
Laura: Oh God.
Matt: That puts you at the end of your turn. She's gonna use legendary action. At this point in her kind of, sped up form, she begins to... (chanting) And there's a slight ripple again in the air similar to what Gilmore did towards Raishan early part of the battle. Let me see the...
Taliesin: We're making some bad groupings there, by the way, people.
Matt: Yeah. You feel a kind of a strange warmth and tingling sensation within your body, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, what, me? But I didn't do anything.
Taliesin: You relieve yourself gently.
Laura: Did you just pee?
Taliesin: I cast Tinkle.
Sam: I don't get to save or anything, it just happens?
Matt: It's not a save, it's against an effect on you and she rolls to-- just like how you roll to overcome her spell's counter spell, she gets to roll to overcome whatever effect is on you with dispel magic.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So, that's gonna be the last of her legendary actions.
Laura: She just dispelled all of us. Can we bust out a feast right now? -Just like sit down.
Taliesin: We can make eggs benedict. We have the makings for eggs benedict.
Sam: Does that dispel my fire resistance as well?
Matt: No, it only affected the Heroes' Feast.
Sam: Okay. You'll have to explain that sometime.
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: So, giving a potion to somebody is a full action?
Matt: Yes. Cause you have to basically get there, open it, grab them and help them swallow it to have the effect take place. It's a pretty involved action.
Sam: That means we don't have advantage on death saves either. Right, wait.
Laura: Did we ever?
Sam: Yeah, we did.
Laura: Oh, that's from Beacon of Hope. That's gone anyway.
Sam: Is that gone, okay?
Taliesin: Yeah, that got eaten.
Laura: Okay, then I'm gonna fly down to my brother. And I'm gonna cast Cure Wounds on him at fourth level, so that's 4d8.
Sam: 4d8? 
Laura: Oh, 19 plus eight, wow, 27.
Sam: Wow.
Liam: Thank you.
Laura: You don't got no wings anymore.
Liam: She dead?
Laura: No.
Liam: Oh, shit.
Laura: Get away from the lava. And then, I'm gonna fly away from the lava. -Up.
Matt: This way?
Travis: Towards Matt.
Laura: Yeah, towards Matt. Up and towards Matt.
Matt: Up and towards me.
Laura: Kind of away from Pike. Actually, let's go, oh God.
Matt: This way?
Laura: Yes, yes, what you just did. That way.
Matt: That's about as far as you can go right there. Okay.
Laura: And I get a bonus. I can do something with a bonus. I'm gonna re-Hunter's Mark her.
Matt: Yeah, cause you--
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Alright, so Hunter's Mark reapplied.
Laura: Oh, wait! I can take a potion for myself as a bonus.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: I'm gonna do that.
Matt: Alright, go for it.
Taliesin: Yeah. -Get it.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Just a regular potion?
Laura: Just a Superior.
Matt: Oh, right.
Laura: That my brother gave me.
Matt: That is an 8d4 plus eight.
Laura: It's a four.
Travis: Easter egg.
Laura: Seventeen plus eight.
Travis: You have one more dice to roll.
Laura: I do?
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Ooh. So, 21 plus eight, so 29.
Matt: Nice.
Sam: You healed yourself that much? Jesus, that's a big potion.
Laura: Yeah that was, I rolled really well.
Taliesin: I may make one for the table.
Laura: I didn't trust that I would roll that well.
Matt: That ends your turn, Vex?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, so half my movement just to get to standing, right?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Okay, I'm gonna throw Whisper, Flame tongue. Raishan should be within 60 feet, yeah?
Matt: Uh, yeah.
Liam: Okay. -Seventeen for the first.
Matt: Fails.
Liam: Second is 22.
Matt: Twenty-two just hits.
Travis: That's it, that's Raishan at 22.
Liam: Ten.
Taliesin: 22?
Marisha: She's 22.
Matt: How much damage?
Liam: Ten.
Matt: Ten points damage.
Liam: And I'm going to use my remaining 15 of movement to go diagonally away from Raishan.
Matt: Diagonally away this way?
Liam: Away from-- diagonal.
Matt: Here?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, that's as far as you can get there. Okay. That ends your turn. That brings us to Kima. Let's see. Kima rushes in with Holy Avenger, and looks over at the distant dragon and goes, "Oh, shit. Who's hurting?"
Laura: Everyone.
Sam: I'm fine.
Laura: "I am, I don't want to say anything though, but I kind of am. I feel kind of shitty. I--I feel like shit."
Liam: "Um..."
Laura: "Um..."
Sam: "I'm kind of bleeding from my ears, but, whatever."
Matt: Kima as an action is gonna cast a...
Laura: "I can deal with it. It's no big deal."
Matt: I'm gonna say third level Cure Wounds.
Liam: Matt, my wings are toast, right?
Matt: Yeah. That's 17 points of healing to Pike.
Laura: Okay, thank you.
Matt: I think Kima's just gonna go at a full run. (indistinct talking) Right, that ends Kima's turn. There is a flash of light in the tunnel behind you guys. As a sudden burst of kind of... a whitish orangish energy that briefly halos Kima, Scanlan, and Pike's forms. As you watch, a brass talon... (cheering) A brass talon, that since it was used as the top of our tree, I forgot to bring its base, but he'll be acting there.
Taliesin: It was a beautiful tree.
Laura: Hey, look, he's standing!
Marisha: He's standing.
Taliesin: You've been drinking, brass dragon.
Laura: Oh, J'Mon, you looking good.
Liam: J'Mon!
Laura: J'Mon!
Taliesin: Have you been working out? You look like you've been working out.
Matt: He watches as they arrive and kind of bully their way past the entrance. "I was wondering when you'd call."
Sam: Glad you came!
Travis: Nothing cool, nothing cool with that!
Taliesin: Swipe right, swipe right!
Travis: Sure is glad you're here!
Sam: We're happy to see you?
Travis: No court speak here.
Sam: How-- how was the flight?
Matt: Actually, I broke my platforms, so I'll just have to use my imagination for some of this.
Sam: We need modeling clay, quick!
Taliesin: Fishing wire, we can just string it from the top of the set.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, just attach it to a string.
Matt: There we go. J'Mon, they kind of stomp their way into the room, stepping over you, Scanlan. Stepping past you, Vax. Nestles in, kind of surveys the territory. "A different color than I was expecting." And releases a blast of fire breath upwards in the direction--
Travis: Smoke 'em if you got 'em. C'mon, J'Mon.
Laura:  J'Mon 
Taliesin:  J'Mon 
Matt: That is a 23. Okay, makes the dex save, so Raishan pulls out of the way with a benefit from the haste spell. However it does still take damage. Half damage from the spell. That's 16d6 damage.
Laura: Wow.
Travis: 16d6. Well, that might actually help.
Liam: Nobody expects the Marquette inquisition.
Matt: That is 58 points fire damage, half of that to 20... 29, whoo, pardon me.
Laura: Did you just burp or did you just--
Matt: I did.
Matt: Twenty nine points of fire damage to Raishan from Devo'ssa's Flame breath. J'Mon Sa Ord, as you know.
Travis: Wow.
Matt: She makes a concentration check. Succeeds.
Travis: Damn it.
Matt: So, the haste remains viable. Okay, that ends J'Mon's turn. Pike is up.
Laura: Okay. Pike...
Marisha: Go on, girl!
Laura: She's gonna cast Mass Healing Word. Can she get the most people in her radius?
Matt: What's the range on it?
Laura: It is a 60 foot radius.
Sam: Radius?
Matt: Yep, that's the biggest radius, it'd be right there. In the center, just under J'Mon's giant brass dragon wing.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: It's not gonna heal Raishan, is it?
Laura: No.
Matt: No.
Laura: Heals only people she wants. It's up to six creatures.
Matt: Up to six creatures, who do you choose?
Laura: Who all's--
Taliesin: Raise your hand if you would-- you would like to be--
Laura: So, that's--
Liam: Grog is within range.
Laura: Grog and her. So, that's Grog, Pike, Vex, Vax, and Percy.
Sam: Well, hey, if you can do six.
Laura: And Scanlan. "Oh, sorry, Scanlan, I didn't see you there."
Sam: "Well, I'm behind a dragon, honey, it's okay."
Laura: Oh, he's gonna dispel this shit.
Taliesin: I don't think she can.
Laura: Okay, she's gonna do this.
Sam: Wait, can she do it on herself as well?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Nine.
Sam: Nine-- nine points?
Laura: Yeah. That's a bonus, I know, I know, okay.
Taliesin: Nine is good.
Laura: There's not really anything else right now.
Taliesin: Technically, it's 9 times 6, so you did a lot of healing.
Laura: All of her major spells were used.
Liam: Still in the game.
Taliesin: Nine times six is a lot.
Travis: Nine points, okay.
Taliesin: That brings me up into the 60's.
Sam: Decadent.
Marisha: Just a-- a nice southern California day.
Taliesin: Fifties.
Laura: And then, can she-- does she have any movement left?
Matt: No, that was her full movement to get there. (indistinct talking)
Laura: That's true. She's gonna duck as much as she can under J'Mon.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: For protection. And say, "Oh, you look very nice, thank you." (laughing)
Matt: There you go.
Laura: "Thank you for helping us."
Sam: At this point, I feel like you guys are better at Ashley than she is.
Laura: No, shut up.
Matt: Alrighty.
Taliesin: Cast of thousands it takes to play Ashley.
Matt: Ending Pike's turn, Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Oh, oh, shit, I should have been thinking about what I--
Matt: Yes, you should have.
Sam: Okay. I will-- I will-- I will shoot some stuff at Raishan of it all.
Matt: Do it, what are you doing?
Sam: I'm gonna shoot Lightning Bolt at Raishan. From my dick. (laughter)
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: So, as you begin creating your incantation and thrust your hips forward, J'Mon Sa Ord turns their head beneath the wing in your direction and arcs a brow, surprised.
Sam: Like, yeah, this is happening.
Matt: As the bolt of energy streaks forth from your groin in the direction of the dragon. That is a 15. It's going to use one of Raishan's legendary resistances to resist it. So half damage.
Sam: Okay, fine, whatever.
Travis: "Fine, whatever."
Sam: Okay.
Travis: Feel the heat.
Sam: Wow.
Sam: 35 halved.
Matt: 35 halved.
Sam: 17.
Matt: That's a good roll.
Sam: That is a good roll. It was mostly sixes and fives.
Matt: Alrighty. And do you wish to move or you gonna stay where you are?
Sam: Oh. No, I would like to move. I would like to move forward a bit still within the-- the Devo'ssa range.
Matt: Like by Pike and Kima over here?
Sam: Yeah, oh, can I move to the other side of Devo'ssa?
Matt: Yeah, you can move just underneath, running between the legs and get about there.
Sam: And yeah, shoot, is anyone else-- how's Gilmore look?
Matt: Gilmore is standing and seems to be doing alright, but seen a lot struggle from the last battle and is currently about... You can see a little bit of blood dried and curling from one side of the mouth. Hair is mussed up and looks to be a few burn marks across the skin and is kind of a little out of breath, but is standing.
Taliesin: It's the level two Mike Tyson's punch out.
Matt: Yeah. Gilmore's roughly half out.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: I knew that would break you.
Travis: I love that reference.
Sam: So I will use a Healing Word on Gilmore. Why not? 'Cause I don't want to use any-- I got one more Inspiration, so I'm not gonna use that yet. So, yeah, I will-- I will heal Gilmore.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oh, yes, sorry, I got to roll. Nine.
Matt: Total nine, great, alrighty. That ends your turn?
Sam: Yes, yes, yes.
Matt: Alright, Percival, you're up.
Travis: Nice job.
Taliesin: Okay, I don't have it marked down that I burned my action surge, but I think I burned my action surge.
Matt: You did, yes.
Taliesin: But I still do have two points of Cabal's Ruin. -If I recall.
Matt: You do, yes.
Taliesin: Okay, just making sure. Alright, so, I'm going to-- from my little vantage point, take a shot with Bad News. See how this goes, and I'm gonna burn a Grit for advantage. Let's do this.  Yeah. I mean, that wasn't fine, but we could do better. Yeah, that's already better.
Travis: Come on.
Taliesin: Thirty points to-- 30 to hit.
Matt: Thirty does hit, yes.
Taliesin: Alright. Let's use these, they're sparkly. Two 12 plus six plus, I'm gonna throw 2d6 worth of electric. 2d4 worth of electric. Learning how to use-- Oh, 1d6, no, never mind, here we go. So, let's add. Empty out Cabal's Ruin. That's awful.  10 points of damage plus 6 points of lightning damage.
Travis: How's that terrible, that's not terrible.
Taliesin: For me.
Laura: For him.
Matt: You watch as you send the last bit of the charge through the cloak as the energy shoots up your arm into the gun and as you fire, it travels with the bullet and bursts into this kind of weird, reverse shock wave and the energy returns and slams for a second time into Raishan's body.
Taliesin: Nice, I have one more shot. So, I'm gonna take my last shot although there's no more electricity. That's probably not gonna hit. That's 18 to hit, that does not hit.
Matt: It does not.
Taliesin: That does not hit. But at least it doesn't backfire.
Matt: It hits the side of the hide and ricochets off the dragon's skin.
Taliesin: I'm gonna start running. I know you don't have the little plastic thing, but I'm feeling a little clumped over there, so I'm gonna start running up the wall at an angle, so probably three up and three-- three up and three side.
Matt: We'll mark you at 25 feet up on the wall. Just keep that in mind. Okay, ends Percy. Top of this now is another lair action.  (indistinct talking)
Sam: No, he could do that.
Matt: Alright. 
Taliesin: It's like watching some very, like, complicated...
Marisha: Like, chess.
Matt: The magma over here begins to bubble and you watch as one of these strange protrusions from the rocky ground begins to bow upward and then crack open as another familiar cloud of gas begins to spill out in this area.
Travis: But you're totally immune.
Matt: Vax, Vex, Scanlan. I need you guys to make constitution saving throws.
Sam: Nope.
Laura: This is just the worst.
Matt: J'Mon.
Laura:  J'Mon 
Matt: Does make it, yes.
Sam: Four.
Laura: Fourteen.
Liam: Eighteen.
Matt: Okay, you do make it.
Liam: Eighteen.
Matt: Eighteen, yes, the two of you manage to succeed. Pike as well?
Taliesin: Oh, yeah, medicine won't heal it.
Laura: Hold on.
Travis: That's gotta make it.
Liam: Thirteen.
Laura: Fourteen.
Matt: Okay. So, this cloud is still kind of permeating this area. Obscuring it slightly. Ending that now it is Raishan's--
Sam: Wait, what did I do, what happened to me?
Matt: You rolled a four.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: So, when your turn comes around next...
Sam: I die.
Travis: I'll let you know.
Matt: No, you'll just be coughing and incapacitated. The coughing fit that this poison gas creates is so bad that you can't do anything but hack.
Travis: It is called LA Smog.
Matt: Yes. Now, being Raishan's turn. Still hasted, pardon me. Raishan is going to dart backward... and snatch up this one egg with her claws. Grabs it and kind of carries it up underneath.
Marisha: Bitch cares.
Laura: She does care!
Marisha: She cares!
Laura: Let's kill them eggs.
Taliesin: Care Bear stare!
Sam: Wait, maybe she's just trying to be a good mom.
Taliesin: She's gonna throw it at us.
Marisha: Google Donkey Kong.
Taliesin: She could go all Donkey Kong on us.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah. (indistinct talking)
Laura: (yells)
Matt: So, that's 20 to get there and back to grab that. She kinda swoops down, grabs it. Moves forward ever so slightly this way, and... No, from back here. Is going to release a giant burst of poisonous gas outward, affecting-- Kima shrugs it off, Pike shrugs it off. Grog, you shrug it off cause you resist the dispel that didn't work earlier. Gilmore ate the Feast earlier and is also unaffected. However, I need...
Laura: Gilmore didn't get the Feast.
Matt: That's right, cause you can only have so many people eat from it. Alright, I need Gilmore, Vax, Vex and Scanlan to all make constitution saving throws.
Sam: What about Devo'ssa?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Wow. That's not happy. Such a pretty die.
Laura: Did you say Pike? Did you say Pike as well?
Matt: Pike didn't get dispelled. So Pike is immune.
Sam: I got a nine, Matthew.
Matt: You got a 9?
Sam: Constitution?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Nine.
Matt: Not you, Percy.
Taliesin: I didn't have to roll. I'm just mocking him.
Matt: Vex?
Laura: Fourteen.
Matt: Okay. You guys and Scanlan all suffer 83 points of poison damage.
Travis: Oh my God!
Marisha: How many?
Matt: Eighty-three.
Laura: Eighty-three.
Matt: Gilmore.
Taliesin: (laughing) Gilmore makes his save roll with a 19 plus three.
Taliesin: So, he gets 40.
Matt: Thanks to your heal earlier, Gilmore is still standing with two hit points.
Laura: Wow.
Sam: That makes two of us, friend. I'm at two hit points as well.
Travis: How y'all doing?
Laura: We're unconscious.
Sam: Did our-- Our bronze brass dragon get hurt at all or no?
Matt: Brass dragon. But it is here in a minute. Rolls a one on its saving throw. Gonna use legendary resistance to make the save. So he only takes-- they only take--
Taliesin: Can you arc lightning?
Matt: 41 points of damage there. Okay. So, as this billows forth...
Laura: Twins go out together.
Matt: So, Vax, he falls unconscious. Vex, you fall unconscious, fall off the broom, hit the ground. Taking four points of bludgeoning damage, you suffer a death saving throw from the impact.
Laura: From like a teeny little ten foot fall?
Matt: 10 foot drop on your head.
Laura: That's fucking stupid.
Matt: It's only a--
Laura: She was sitting stupidly!
Matt: It's only a d6 bludgeoning damage, but when you're unconscious while falling, you now realize the downside of flying all the time.
Laura: Damn it!
Travis: Didn't you put air bags on that thing?
Laura: I did, I have a helmet on. Did you-- I put airbags in the witch's hat.
Taliesin: It's a football helmet.
Travis: That's right, it's magic, it goes...
Sam: Yeah, I forgot to tell you, the witch hat is magic.
Taliesin: Full of balloons.
Matt: As the poisonous breath billows out and everyone's coughing and falling over, you watch the twins fall unconscious, Raishan kind of grins. "You've got a few surprises, I see, but you're not the only ones."
Laura: Oh, no, does she have more surprises?
Travis: I think that's what she meant, yeah.
Laura: I hope that's not--
Taliesin: There's cake and ice cream upstairs.
Sam: "I have more surprises." "Guys, I think she has more surprises."
Travis: That's literally what she just said.
Laura: I just thought maybe the breath was the surprise.
Matt: And then is going to use the rest of her movement to whip over here.
Travis: Damn it, damn it, damn it. Why'd she have to leave? I just wanted to give her a high five.
Taliesin: You need to heal the living hell out of these people.
Laura: Damn it! She's carrying...?
Matt: She's carrying two eggs underneath.
Taliesin: Which means she obviously can't do claw attacks.
Matt: She still has 40 feet of movement.
Laura: That's true.
Matt: And is going to turn back, and flies there.
Travis: Didn't pick up anything else?
Matt: No, she grabbed the two eggs and is positioning. Alright, that ends Raishan's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Taliesin: Can you heal?
Marisha: I'm wondering if I should drop this and start doing beefier stuff now.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: I think now's the time.
Sam: This has only injured Vax so far, so...
Laura: Me and...
Taliesin: The twins, they're both unconscious.
Sam: Oh, great.
Taliesin: With one death saving throw already failed.
Sam: Great.
Laura: No, just me.
Marisha: Okay, I am going to move from--
Laura: And Pike's like out.
Marisha: Over the lava like this direction.
Sam: She's got some cantrips.
Marisha: Geez, I can't tell.
Matt: Which way?
Marisha: This way, this way. See the laser pointer? No, no, no, I had it. I had it and it went away. -Okay.
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: No, it's-- yeah, over there.
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: Uh-huh. And how far away is Raishan from me now?
Matt: I'd say roughly 30 feet, 35 feet.
Marisha: Okay, move me like one more closer to her.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: And how close am I from the twins now? I can't see.
Matt: Twins, you're about 30, another 35 feet from them.
Marisha: Okay, let me move five more feet so I can be within 30 feet of the twins.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Okay, now I'm gonna drop my--
Matt: Well, with both twins, you'd have to move there. You drop your form?
Marisha: Drop my form.
Matt: Alright.
Marisha: I hope this is not a terrible idea.
Matt: I'll put you there.
Taliesin: We're at that point.
Marisha: We're at that point. This is Dungeons and Dragons!
Taliesin: This is dungeon and dragons.
Marisha: I'm going to bust out the Spire of Conflux. So I'm gonna bust out the staff and be like, "You bitch." And then aim it. I'm gonna do chain lightning and can I try and hit her and the two eggs and maybe like, since I still have the storm going, like, it just looks cool? (laughing)
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Doesn't it--?
Matt: Raishan saves. The eggs cannot save technically, so go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Don't you get the lightning attacks too? If you're doing chain lightning, you still get the other lightning's that are there?
Marisha: I have to choose to make an action. It's still there, but I can either like do other things or choose to do--
Laura: I understand.
Marisha: Sorry, I don't do the-- 10d8.
Taliesin: Do you need some d8's?
Marisha: I have one, two, three, four, five... I think I'm good, I'll just roll five twice. Oh, God, oh, God. Did she save?
Matt: Yes, she did.
Marisha: But the eggs didn't?
Matt: The eggs did not.
Marisha: Okay, that's not phenomenal. Three, six, nine, ten-- nine, ten, eleven. Plus four is 15 plus... Okay, okay. What'd I say, 15? Twenty-five, 29. Thirty-six total.
Taliesin: Oh, wait, wait, wait.
Marisha: Oh! Oh, and I get to reroll this one. Thirty-six, no, thirty-eight.
Matt: Thirty-eight, okay. That would be 29, no, sorry. No, from 30, 19. Nineteen damage to Raishan and the two eggs-- You watch as the bolt hits, arcs through her, arcs through the eggs. You see the eggs still carrying them, no visual.
Marisha: It didn't do anything to 'em?
Matt: Well, nothing you can see, no.
Marisha: Nothing I can see. Maybe I like microwaved 'em inside. Like nuked 'em. Might have nuked 'em.
Travis: Might have been like Vision and you made 'em super strong.
Marisha: Yeah, or I turned 'em into little Vision dragons. You know, one of the two. Okay, and then for my bonus action, I'm going to do a Healing Word on Vax.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm just gonna do it at first level. -Sorry.
Liam: No, hey.
Taliesin: It's back up.
Marisha: Three plus (indistinguishable) so nine total.
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: At the end of your turn, watching you form over, hit her with lightning, hit the eggs and all of a sudden, breath come back to the lungs of Vax on the ground. Raishan, "Not so fast." Still clutching the eggs, her front claws kind of form this small spiral as the air grows surprisingly cold causing this mist to form around the extended ends of her claws. As she puts her arms forth, casting Cone of Cold outward from her.
Laura: I wonder if they're elemental, like, amplifiers.
Marisha: The eggs?
Taliesin: I think, I think maybe they're--
Travis: Just eggs?
Taliesin: No, no, I think she may be on to something.
Matt: That's going to be... I don't know if it's going to hit.
Taliesin: No, no.
Matt: Does not hit Gilmore. However, I need Scanlan...
Sam: Would I be able to counter spell this or-- or am I already in a cloud of smoke and coughing?
Matt: Oh, you can't technically move cause you're doubled over.
Sam: I'm already in the cloud, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: You're in the cloud, but you can be restored. Cause you've been backed up.
Sam: Oh. Backblaze?
Sam: You're slowly becoming me tonight.
Taliesin: Can Gilmore dispel or-- Just throwing that out there. I know you're playing a lot of hands here.
Sam: You're so handsome and charming all of a sudden.
Matt: What's the range on that? Unfortunately, Gilmore's just out of range. 60 foot range.
Taliesin: Goddammit, okay.
Matt: Good looking out though.
Taliesin: I'm trying.
Matt: So that is Kima, Pike, J'Mon, Scanlan, Vax and Vex all making constitution saving throws.
Laura: I'm unconscious.
Matt: So, you take another death save.
Laura: Cool.
Taliesin: Goddammit. We need to fix that.
Laura: I've got one save left.
Taliesin: Please, we got to fix that.
Sam: Did I-- wait. Vax-y poo, did I give you my cold armor? I mean, Vex-y poo.
Laura: Yeah, you did, but it's not attuned.
Sam: You're not even using it?
Matt: And even then, even at half damage, she's unconscious.
Laura: Well, I am, I'm just not getting cold--
Matt: So you're at two death saves on impact. You're unconscious again to zero. -You take...
Sam: I rolled an 11.
Matt: An eleven, yeah. So you take 43 points of cold damage.
Sam: I'm so dead.
Travis: No, no, unconscious.
Matt: Unconscious.
Laura: You're unconscious.
Sam: Negative 41.
Matt: Both roll for Pike.
Laura: It doesn't matter what you're negative.
Travis: Unless it's your total hit points.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Roll for Pike if you could please.
Laura: Well, I wouldn't count it, but yeah, that was-- that was bad. It was better when I--
Taliesin: Well, not anymore.
Laura: What is this, what is this? Constitution, what is this? Five! Cause I suck.
Matt: Pike takes another 43 points of cold damage.
Laura: Pike is unconscious.
Sam: The gnomes are down. Well, at least we got Kima.
Laura: Whoa. The two-- the twins and the gnomes are out.
Sam: Yeah, whoa, we're down four?
Taliesin: We're down four.
Sam: Whoa!
Laura: This is serious, you guys.
Sam: Don't worry, Devo'ssa's here to give one shot of 28 points of damage. Come on, Devo'ssa, do something!
Travis: I would hit the dragon cause it's low enough, but it's on the other side of the map.
Matt: Alrighty, so that's the end of Keyleth's turn. It's now Gilmore's turn.
Travis: Come on, Gilmore.
Laura: Do you have Mass Cure, Gilmore?
Matt: Gilmore does not cure, unfortunately, that's not his specialty.
Travis: What about Razzle Dazzle?
Matt: He's used a lot of his spells. (sighs)
Taliesin: I have nothing.
Travis: Can he cast like--
Sam: Oh, wait! Shit. No, that was poison. He shot-- Raishan shot poison at us, right?
Taliesin: No, cold.
Laura: Cold the last time.
Sam: No, the cold this time. The previous time it was poison.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Never acid though.
Taliesin: No, never acid.
Matt: Gilmore rushes around J'Mon almost as a defensive stand point, but also kind of taking in the circumstance. Watching this blast of cold air come through. Kind of looks around, seeing everyone on the ground. It's like, "Oh God, oh God." And in a fit of rage and needing to lock this down, just gonna go ahead with what he has left at his disposal to release a... All he can really do is a lightning bolt. Which Raishan rolls a one.
Laura: Oh, good, good.
Matt: Uses legendary resistance to resist it.
Laura: I have to pee so bad, I got to get up.
Sam: How do you want to do this?
Matt: I know. Ten points of lightning damage to Raishan.
Laura: What I'm scared of is that I'm gonna be away from the table when I actually die, but I have to pee.
Matt: Go pee, it's fine.
Laura: Just don't kill me while I'm not at the table, okay, Matt?
Matt: Do my best.
Sam: Hey, when she gets back let's all be crying.
Laura: (offscreen) Don't-- I heard that! (laughter)
Taliesin: You are the worst person. Two seconds longer.
Matt: Grog.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Actually, no, oh, thank you so much.
Taliesin: Oh, yay.
Matt: Thank you, thank you, thank you. Beautiful. They found my base.
Taliesin: Wow, look at all those minis that are flattened. Wake up our healer.
Matt: Look at that. Looks much more majestic when it's up in the air. Oh God. I'm juggling here. Stay on there! Alright, so, at the end of that turn... there's two more legendary actions from Raishan. She has four, she has four. To cast a Melf's Acid Arrow at Gilmore. 
Sam: (snickering)
Travis: Wait, where did Gilmore go, I can't see.
Matt: He's underneath.
Sam: No one said D&D was easy, guys. 
Matt: Okay, a ranged spell attack. So, yeah, that hits. So that is 4d4 acid damage against-- That's five. Five, ten points of acid damage. Gilmore is now also down.
Sam: Oh!
Travis: Is that five total?
Taliesin: Five down, we have five down.
Matt: As Gilmore runs past the dragon, Raishan just with this almost underhanded, flips her claws out and this one little greenish dart of arcane energy slams into Gilmore's chest. And he just falls to the ground.
Taliesin: We're so fucked.
Matt: Burning into him like alien blood.
Travis: This is some kind of horrible record.
Laura: Gilmore just went unconscious too?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: Sit down.
Laura: Oh, no!
Sam: Kima, Percy, Keyleth. It's up to you.
Matt: Grog, it's your turn.
Sam: Oh, wait, Grog! I forgot Grog.
Travis: Hey!
Taliesin: Is there anything you can do to fix this?
Travis: I have a question.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: So my speed is 50, but I don't know if I ever thought of what my speed is enlarged-ish. It's not double, right? I don't really have a card for it. It doesn't say anything about my speed.
Matt: Wait, for which one, on the--
Laura: If he was enlarged.
Matt: If you're enlarged, no, it doesn't increase your speed at all.
Travis: Yeah, okay.
Matt: You're still 50, you're bigger--
Taliesin: Fuck.
Travis: So, from where I am, if I wanted to head towards you, how far could I get?
Matt: You could get... That far there.
Travis: That does fuck all.
Taliesin: That-- yeah.
Travis: I could throw the axe but Pike's unconscious. -I'm gonna run to Pike.
Sam: Start saving shit.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And I have the middle potion available.
Laura: The Greater?
Travis: The Greater.
Matt: Alrighty, so you're gonna use your action to administer the Greater healing potion to Pike. Alrighty, go for it.
Sam: To Pike.
Travis: How many-- How many is that, I don't remember.
Laura: That's 4d4.
Matt: Yeah, 4d4 plus four.
Travis: Okay. Four. Four, that's two. Hey, seven and a four is eleven. Fifteen. Fifteen points to Pike.
Matt: Fifteen points to Pike.
Taliesin: And she still has her turn coming up.
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Oh, okay, okay, that's good.
Laura: But she has basically no spells left.
Sam: She's got no spell slots. Does she have any spell-- higher level spell slots open?
Laura: She's got a fourth level spell.
Taliesin: And then she can burn a fourth to heal somebody at a fourth level. She can heal you at a fourth level because you need healing now.
Matt: That ends your turn, Grog?
Matt: Vex, it's your turn. I need you to make a death saving throw.
Taliesin: Goddammit.
Laura: I could die.
Taliesin: Yep, this could be it.
Sam: This is the last one?
Laura: This is my last death saving throw.
Taliesin: This is it.
Laura: No advantage, no nothing.
Taliesin: Oh God fucking damn it.
Laura: I'm using-- no, I'm not even gonna say it. (groans)
Laura: I failed it.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Laura: Five.
Matt: Five. There, on the banks of the lava flow in Thordak's lair, the breath escapes Vex. Her body going still and unfortunately not cold because of the vicinity of the flames, but Vex has fallen.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: Death save.
Matt: With advantage.
Liam: I made it.
Matt: Made it? That brings us to Kima. 
Travis: Fuck. 
Sam: Holy shit. 
Matt: Kima, who's-- Pike is now conscious, correct? From the potion.
Laura: Pike is conscious with 15 points.
Matt: Kima's panicking watching all this happen and seeing this happen in the distance. Looks to Gilmore, looks to Vax. She kind of frustratingly just throws the sword at her side and reaches down and does a level two Healing Word to Gilmore. That is 12, so Gilmore is back and conscious.
Marisha: As a bonus action, so can she heal someone else?
Matt: Alrighty. That ends Kima's turn is now--
Marisha: Does she happen to do-- that's a bonus action. Can she do it twice?
Matt: That was-- that was not Healing Word, sorry, Cure Wounds.
Taliesin: Goddammit.
Matt: She's going to move, stepping over his body, "Keep it going, friend." Leaps over him. Two, three, four, five. And she kind of runs past, pulling the sword out again, looks up at the dragon and says, "Alright, show us what you can do, buddy. There's a lot riding on this." After Kima is J'Mon. They look down at the running Halfling. "Dire as it may be, that's why we're here." Let's see if he gets his breath back. Nope. They did not get their breath back.
Travis: Shit.
Laura: Just-- bitch-- bitchslap Raishan.
Marisha: Kaiju battle!
Liam: Take your earrings off, come on.
Matt: Rushes up and-- Goes right up into Raishan's space.
Laura: Yes!
Sam: Dragon on dragon.
Laura: He has a base now? When did that happen?
Travis: While you were peeing.
Laura: That's great.
Matt: So, just rushes up into Raishan. You feel the wind kind of blast past as the wings of J'Mon Sa Ord, Devo'ssa, pick them up and they rush around strafing the side of Raishan and unleash a barrage of attacks against her. That will be-- First one is 16, no. Bite misses. Three and a two, really?
Laura: Really?
Travis: No, no, no, no.
Marisha: Come on, man.
Travis: I don't believe it.
Marisha: Come on!
Travis: I don't believe.
Sam: Look at all the notes, look at all the notes.
Travis: I don't believe it!
Matt: Three, two and one. That is ridiculous.
Laura: You know why this happened? Cause you took so long to call--
Sam: Yeah, I know, I know. They got-- they got bored waiting at home and yeah.
Matt: So.
Sam: It's me, it's on me.
Matt: As J'Mon rushes up and unleashes, Raishan, who is slippery at best, and really, really, really creepily deceitful at her worst, dodges to the side, so, she's in the shadows and the cloud of the storm in the air to kind of hide her form as J'Mon reaches out and starts slashing Raishan, who's now has this kind of wild look in her eyes of now mounting victory. From a moment of fear earlier, she manages to avoid the first two strikes and the third one, the tail slaps against the side of Raishan's body. Whack and smacks to no effect.
Travis: Jesus.
Matt: That ends J'Mon's turn. It is now Pike's turn.
Liam: Pike, how close is she to--
Sam: Book!
Taliesin: Book?
Matt: Pike is about 25 feet away.
Liam: She's gonna run up, kneel down, wait, kiss Vex on the forehead, and say, "Not like this, buddy," and cast Revivify for her last spell.
Travis: It is her last.
Matt: Revivify is touch and she's coming up from unconscious prone which means she doesn't have the movement to get there to touch her.
Liam: Pike is unconscious?
Matt: Oh, no, she was-- she was--
Travis: Pike was not unconscious.
Marisha: She was not unconscious, she was up.
Travis: She was up with 15--
Matt: Oh, oh.
Laura: She had 15. -But she was--
Sam: She was lying down.
Laura: She was lying on--
Matt: So, she was prone. She was prone.
Travis: Oh, why didn't I just pick her up?
Matt: No, so she can move. She can't get there.
Laura: That's okay.
Matt: It's a touch spell.
Liam: Who's she near?
Marisha: How much time does Revivify need?
Laura: A minute.
Taliesin: Oh, under a minute. Oh, well, she can make her way--
Laura: She's got Sprinter's Boots on! She just texted.
Matt: Had she used them recently?
Laura: We didn't use them in the last fight because we didn't realize she had 'em.
Matt: The internet will let us know.
Laura: Well, I-- we didn't use 'em in the fight with Thordak.
Liam: She didn't know she had 'em so we didn't use 'em.
Matt: Right, right, so.
Sam: Do you have any other healing spells that can work at a distance?
Liam: She's dead.
Marisha: She's dead. She's gonna do Revivify.
Laura: For Pike, though.
Taliesin: Yeah, like.
Liam: So the Sprinter's Boots do nothing, I mean, I don't know.
Matt: The Sprinter's Boots will let her double her movement for a round.
Liam: So will she get there?
Laura: She's writing in all caps "Sprinter's Boots!" (laughing)
Liam: Alright, so Revivify.
Matt: Alright.
Taliesin: Oh my God.
Matt: Now, this is mid-combat. -For the purposes of this--
Laura: Oh God.
Sam: How long does it take to cast?
Liam: It's instantaneous.
Taliesin: Less than six seconds.
Liam: One action, instantaneous.
Marisha: Yeah, she did lay out less than six seconds, man.
Matt: I understand. So, this-- this is going to be a rapid resurrection skill check.
Laura: Oh God, really? Okay.
Matt: So, but this is only from Pike because it is a singular roll. So.
Laura: Can Ashley roll, do you want to roll Ashley?
Matt: As Pike rushes up, what does Pike utilize to implore Vex's soul to return?
Sam: Liam, you answer. 
Liam: My gosh. She grabs a dagger out of Vex's belt and cuts off a lock of her hair and presses it into Vex's hand. "It's not time, it's not time for you. No." 
Matt: Go ahead and just roll a d20.
Laura: She's-- oh! Oh, no! Should we read that?
Travis: No.
Matt: A ten? As the glow from the outside of her form that just radiates with the armor itself, centrally focuses itself into her holy symbol and is sent down the arm. Each piece of the plate mail glowing in succession like a series of chained lights as it reaches the fingers, touching the bottom of her fingertips to Vex's torso. The air seems to go dark for a moment around her body before it pulses, and with that, you watch as her jaw moves ever so slightly taking in, once more, the warm air of Thordak's lair.
Marisha: No one else die.
Matt: Pike, want to do anything else? Bonus action?
Liam: Geez, I don't--
Laura: Oh, she should take-- she should take a potion or something.
Travis: Yeah, heal herself please.
Laura: She's got a-- she's got a Greater healing-- Pike has a Greater healing potion that I know of. So she can take it.
Matt: Okay. So that is a 4d4 plus four.
Travis: This sucks!
Taliesin: I'm almost of the thinking that she shouldn't take it just because-- -Well, no, she's got--
Laura: She's got 15 points.
Taliesin: Well, I mean, but anything hits her-- half the things that hit her are gonna even kill that and that's a revive from death.
Laura: That's true.
Marisha: Yeah, but it's on her, right? Yeah, I see what you mean though.
Laura: Should she wait, should she hold it?
Sam: They're in control of her.
Taliesin: Yeah, you do it, you do it, you do it. I'm overthinking this.
Liam: Yeah, we're talking about getting people back up. At this point, not healing cause any hit is lethal. So getting someone on their feet.
Travis: I got some potions cause I never use 'em, but...
Matt: Yeah, you guys have been hording potions for a while. You've been burning through all of them from these two encounters.
Travis: I've got all the ones I've never used.
Liam: Who's on the ground by Grog?
Taliesin: You.
Liam: No, I know I am, but who else is that?
Taliesin: It's Scanlan, Scanlan's on the ground still.
Liam: Is someone up besides me?
Laura: Well, I want-- it's an action if she-- if she gives it to anybody else. She can't, she can only take it as a bonus action for herself.
Travis: Go.
Liam: Go.
Laura: Oh, that's really good though.
Marisha: I wonder how bad Raishan is looking.
Taliesin: He hasn't said the phrase.
Laura: Nineteen.
Matt: Okay, nice. Alright, at the end of Pike's turn, Devo'ssa, J'Mon Sa Ord, is gonna use two legendary actions to attempt a wing attack.
Taliesin: Thank God.
Travis: Come on, come on.
Matt: He is now like just assailing Raishan with their wings. So, Raishan has to make a dexterity saving throw. That is cocked, try again. No, that is a failure. Raishan's gonna use the last legendary resistance to resist that. So instead takes...
Travis: Fuck!
Matt: That's...
Marisha: She's burned through all of her legendary resistance?
Matt: Seven points of bludgeoning damage and is not knocked prone. That would have messed her up. Okay.
Travis: Is not knocked prone?
Matt: No, she is not, she's safe. Okay, that brings us to Scanlan.
Laura: We just gotta get out of here.
Sam: Fail.
Matt: That's a death saving throw off Scanlan. Alrighty, that brings us to the top of the round. Percy, you are in the back of a wall.
Taliesin: I'm taking...
Matt: The curse of the unscathed!
Taliesin: You know, I was gonna take shots at the eggs, but I give up. I'm taking just shots at Raishan.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: Come on. Don't be stupid. -That's stupid.
Marisha: Pretty stupid.
Laura: Oh my God, we're all gonna-- I'm not gonna say it. -We're gonna--
Travis: Don't you-- shh!
Laura: We're gonna get through this, you guys. We're all gonna get through this.
Travis:  I gotta get through this   I gotta get through this   I gotta get 
Taliesin: Yeah, so I've got-- that's a-- that's a-- -That's a gun jam.
Marisha: Fuck.
Matt: Really?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Fuck.
Taliesin: Hold on.
Laura: Oh my God.
Taliesin: That's a bad gun jam. I'm talking bad, they're both bad gun jams. Alright, I've got one weapon left that can just barely make it, so I'm just screaming to the world. Here we go.
Matt: So you're pulling out Retort.
Taliesin: Yeah, Retort is out and that's a 23.
Matt: That hits. Two more attacks on that, right?
Taliesin: Only one more because I took an attack with Bad News.
Matt: That's-- well, Bad News takes an attack to reload.
Taliesin: But-- no, the first shot went--
Matt: Right, but usually, it's action.
Taliesin: Right, so I have two more-- I have two attacks with Retort. -So, that's--
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: That's um, oh, that's nice. Fourteen points of damage.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And... Oh, that was so mean, that was almost a natural 20. -Twenty-four.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: Ah, 16 points of damage.
Matt: Nice.
Travis: Nice.
Matt: Let me take some concentration checks on that. Yep and yeah.
Taliesin: And I'm going to reload, and I'm going to start running across the wall away from the fray.
Matt: Around this way?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: So, you get about there.
Taliesin: That far. Getting out of the way.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn. It is now back to a lair action.
Sam: Great.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: The ground in the center here quakes and cracks open as a familiar burst of magma-- -Everyone in this vicinity.
Laura: Goddammit.
Matt: I need Vex. Vax, you're--
Liam: Well, I gotta go, I've got one success.
Matt: Right, but you're still unconscious, right?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: So, you just take-- you just lose a death saving throw. As the magma bursts and sprays around, so you take one. I need you to make a dexterity save. -I need Scanlan--
Sam: I lose another death save.
Matt: You lose another.
Laura: You got one left, Scanlan?
Matt: I need Pike to make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: Me too, right?
Matt: And you too, Grog.
Sam: He's got high dex, right? Right?
Laura: Well, this, you know what?
Matt: Gilmore does not make it.
Travis: That's not bad.
Matt: I'm rolling shit for damage, that's good. Wow.
Sam: What'd you roll, Laurs?
Laura: I rolled an eight for Pike.
Matt: Okay, so--
Laura: And a one for me.
Matt: Okay, ten points of fire damage to each of you halved, so you both take five.
Laura: Okay, I'm unconscious.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: This is so fun, you guys, I love this fight.
Sam: Let's go-- oh.
Laura: Pike's at 29.
Travis: I rolled a 19.
Matt: A 19, okay, you succeed, so you take half damage. So you take five, but you're resistant from the potion, so half that, so two. Two points of fire damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Alrighty. It is now Raishan's turn.
Marisha: So not good.
Travis: I just want to go flip the table over.
Matt: Hasted. Raishan, by the way, from the attack from Percy, the damage, you can see Raishan is now visibly bleeding. Parts of the scales are torn. You can see now, at a close up vantage point, as much as the previous dragons you've battled have had a lot of resilience, Raishan's taken a fair amount of damage, but seems to not be quite as physically hearty as what you previously faced and is looking visibly hurt. Raishan is going to begin the round, turning to the rest of you. "I have business elsewhere, and you're being really obnoxious. Stay down." And glancing over is going to go ahead and with both of her hands, again, release another... She is almost out of spells. Cone of Cold.
Laura: Oh no, this is gonna be Scanlan.
Marisha: Fuck.
Matt: That is-- I need-- -So, Scanlan--
Travis: No!
Matt: Scanlan is...
Taliesin: God fucking damn it.
Matt: Frozen, covered in ice, locked in place. A solid gnome bereft of life. Motionless on the ground.
Sam: I died as I lived  hard. (laughter)
Matt: Gilmore takes--
Travis: I heard him say that before he died.
Matt: Gilmore loses a death saving throw. Vax, you take another damage to your two failed death saving throws. Pike needs to make a constitution saving throw. Grog, constitution saving throw.
Laura: Was I in there?
Matt: You were, so you also--
Travis: Twenty-four.
Matt: Twenty-four, you succeed.
Travis: Plus 10 for constitution.
Laura: That's good.
Travis: Fourteen.
Marisha: Jesus.
Laura: Eleven for Pike.
Matt: Okay, that's 30 points of cold damage to Pike.
Laura: Seriously?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: She's unconscious.
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: Pike is unconscious.
Taliesin: That's where we're at.
Laura: We're-- we're-- I don't know how we're gonna get Scanlan back.
Taliesin: I--I have no-- there's no--
Marisha: That'll be a later question?
Taliesin: That may happen.
Matt: So Pike is down.
Taliesin: You have a plan?
Sam: I have a plan. It involves me humping a lot of angels in heaven.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Watching this carnage, you watch as the spell finalizes the blast of cold arcane energy just careening forth and then fading. The ground itself, which is now, normally glowing orange, is now covered with a very thin sheet of ice and you watch steam rise up from the contrasting heat and cold from the spell effecting the surrounding atmosphere. As the mist dissipates, you see a big toothy grin curl across Raishan's face. Little bit of dragon blood curling past her teeth from the wounds that she's suffered. Glaring nervously over at J'Mon Sa Ord, who has taken nearly no damage at this point and is currently up in Raishan's face. Raishan says, "Well, I'm afraid I have to get to the rest of my day. Die amongst your friends as you should." And just tears off of J'Mon and goes into a full hasted fly away.
Sam: Does J'Mon get--
Liam: Attack of opportunity, J'Mon.
Matt: J'Mon does, J'Mon is gonna make a bite attack against Raishan. With a natural 20!
Sam: Does that grapple?
Travis: Are you serious?
Marisha: Does that grapple?
Matt: It does not grapple. But that is...
Marisha: She'd have to do a concentration check, right?
Matt: She will, yeah. That is 18 plus eight. That's 26 piercing damage plus she's immune to poison. She takes no poison damage. That's 28 points of piercing damage to her.
Taliesin: (whimpering)
Matt: Concentration check, oh, she's fine. It's ten plus 14, so, yeah, she's fine. So, the haste does not dispel, however, J'Mon bites out and takes a huge chunk of flesh as the teeth just scrape across the back of Raishan's wing and shoulder like... (snarls) But manages to pull away and at a full 160 foot flying speed hasted and just disappears down the hallway.
Marisha: Should've done that, should've done it.
Matt: Into the ashes and shadow behind. Keyleth, it's your turn.
Marisha: Okay, she has 120 foot-- or she just went 160 feet?
Matt: A 160 feet, yeah. 
Marisha: Is she--  But she wasn't-- Fuck me, oh my God, okay. Can I still see her through the tunnel?
Matt: No, she is outside of your dark vision view radius and there is no light in the tunnel ahead and it is a slight incline. You just watch her just... Disappear into the dark tunnel. Currently have no bead of sight on her.
Travis: Smoke the tunnel, dude. Maybe you get her, maybe you don't. I'm gonna shut up.
Marisha: It's a range thing. I mean, could I try and-- fuck. -This is really bad.
Taliesin: Yes, it's really bad. 
Marisha: She's so far away, dude.
Sam: J'Mon can chase her.
Laura: But he's there and--
Taliesin: And she's so much faster than him. She's hasted.
Travis: Don't worry, I'm gonna take off at a run and--
Taliesin: Yeah. He can only go probably half her speed.
Travis: Picture Butterbean running down an empty street.
Marisha: 'Cause my-- my question is--
Sam: Jarret's still up there.
Marisha: She didn't necessarily--
Laura: Just waiting, crossbow loaded.
Travis: He's just like... (whimpers)
Marisha: 'Cause could I try and move up and then do a long range Wall of Stone spell? To try and collapse the tunnel before she gets out? It's 120 foot.
Matt: A 120 foot range? The spell from where you are currently, which is over here, she went 160 feet even further away from you than she was, so she'd be beyond the distance of the spell unfortunately.
Travis: Cause if you miss, you trap us.
Laura: Yeah, and then we can't get out.
Marisha: No, I mean, I can't-- I mean, I could get us out again, but--
Laura: A bunch of dead people, you could get a bunch of dead people out?
Marisha: I know. Okay, wow.
Travis: Indiana Jones and the Last crusade.
Marisha: This is really bad. Okay, I will use...
Laura: That wasn't her last spell, by the way. She's got three spell slots left.
Marisha: Who's-- yeah, who's really close? Who's like one away? Who's like really bad?
Laura: Close to death?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: He's closer to death than me.
Liam: I'm two failures.
Sam: Is Pike down?
Laura: Pike's unconscious.
Travis: Oh, she is?
Sam: Get Pike up.
Laura: I'm one fail, he's two fails. Scanlan's dead.
Taliesin: Who's got healing spells? Wake up whoever can heal.
Laura: I've got Cure Wounds if I'm awake.
Taliesin: So, get her up.
Liam: I can heal people if I get up.
Marisha: Okay, it doesn't matter. Can I kinda jump and make my way over like, this kind of...
Taliesin: Fuck.
Marisha: This-- can I cross this tinier lava right there? Kind of like, or is that a pretty far jump?
Matt: I mean, you have to still jump. So you have to make an athletics check.
Marisha: How far of a jump is that?
Matt: It's about six, seven feet. So make an athletics check.
Marisha: Sure, why not? Why not at this point?
Laura: No, Keyleth, no.
Marisha: Well, that was a natural one.
Travis: On what, on what?
Sam: Just moving.
Marisha: Just trying to jump across what should have been literally anything else.
Travis: How many hit points do you have? How many hit points do you have?
Sam: It doesn't matter, she's not even gonna get over to anyone to heal them.
Marisha: 60.
Laura: I don't know, man, lava.
Travis: One six or six zero.
Taliesin: Six zero.
Sam: She's fine. But no, she's not necessarily fine.
Laura: Lava has a new rule now.
Matt: Well, not a new rule, the actual rule.
Travis: The actual rule that we didn't use the very very first time. But we felt it last time.
Matt: So, as you rush over trying to help, you go to leap, but your foot catches what you thought was solid volcanic rock. Unfortunately, it's brittle and broken and it slips beneath your foot. In doing so, you only get about three feet before you plant the lower half of your body straight into the lava.
Laura: Oh my God.
Travis: (laughing)
Matt: That's 53 points of fire damage.
Laura: 53!
Sam: You're alive!
Laura: Get up, get out, you can get out of it. You've got seven points left.
Taliesin: You died as you lived.
Marisha: A fucking dumbass, yeah!
Travis: I can't see! It's just a wall of tears.
Laura: Can she get out of the lava or is she just in?
Marisha: Can I get out now? I'm trying to use my movement or am I gonna die if I get out?
Matt: You're essentially prone in the lava. You rolled a one to jump and you basically went...
Laura: Belly flopped into lava.
Laura: You mean, she's gonna take damage trying to get out of it?
Marisha: Can I get out?
Matt: You're technically prone. The rest of your movement will get you up and out, but it'll just get you out of the lava.
Laura: At least you're out.
Liam: Get out, get out.
Matt: So, you'll get out and you'll be just on the edge there.
Laura: Oh my God.
Travis: This is the best.
Laura: This is the worst!
Matt: Wow!
Marisha: I was like, as long as I don't roll a one, that shouldn't be that hard-- okay.
Taliesin: Oh, look, someone left a metaphor on the ground. (laughter) Don't step in it or anything. Oh God, it's everywhere.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Matt: Wow.
Taliesin: Well, this could've gone worse.
Matt: Wow!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: Okay, I'm out of the flame.
Matt: This whole thing's a metaphor for 2017.
Laura: Does J'Mon Sa Ord have any healing spells?
Marisha: And I reach over as a bonus action and do a Healing Word to-- to Vax.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Just--
Matt: What level?
Marisha: I don't know.
Travis: Come on, stay with it. -Stay in the fight.
Marisha: Level one. Oh, that's good, that's four so, nine points.
Sam: Nine points.
Travis: He wakes up!
Matt: Vax is now conscious.
Marisha: No, I'm sorry ten points, that's ten points.
Matt: There you go.
Laura: Sweet, even better. You're double digits. Scanlan, we've got to just-- we've got to get Scanlan back.
Taliesin: There's a lot of work that needs to happen.
Travis: I got her, I got-- I got Pike.
Taliesin: Who's up?
Sam: Grog is up.
Taliesin: I mean, who's next?
Travis: I think it's me.
Laura: It's Gilmore.
Travis: No, it's Gilmore.
Matt: So, Gilmore gets up. Kind of looks around. "Where did she go?"
Travis: "Through the tunnel."
Matt: Okay. He rushes this way and as he gets about there, he... slams into something that is currently invisible. You see a slight ripple of arcane energy and you see a series of small glyphs spiral outward and then it goes see-through again. He starts slamming his fists on it. "Of course, of course. Of course."
Travis: No.
Matt: He goes and... Let's see what he has left.
Travis: She made a Lite Brite wall.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: He's a mime.
Matt: Technically, he looks like a mime from your standpoint.
Marisha: Can I turn to J'Mon? Say, "J'Mon, can you sense her presence? She's a fellow dragon. Do you know where she might be going or what she might be doing?"
Matt: "I haven't the faintest. I only just arrived."
Travis: Oh, fuck, Thordak is outside of the cave!
Liam: Are we out of combat now?
Travis: Thordak is still in the hallway.
Laura: The round's still going.
Matt: So we're gonna continue going through the order here.
Laura: So, it's Grog, it's your turn, Grog.
Matt: So, Grog, it's your turn.
Travis: I run to my buddy, Pike, and I beer bong this Greater healing potion into her gullet.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: What is that?
Laura: 4d8 plus four. I mean, 4d4 plus four.
Matt: 4d4 plus four.
Travis: Eight. Twelve. -Twelve points.
Laura: So, Pike is awake.
Travis: "Hi, hi!" -"Go, heal!"
Laura: "What's going--"
Travis: "Lot of problems."
Sam: Got any more of those Revivify's?
Matt: Alright, that ends your turn, Grog?
Laura: Actually, she does have a third level spell left.
Matt: You do.
Marisha: Really?
Laura: Yes!
Laura: She does have a third level spell!
Marisha: Well, yes, do that, do that really quick!
Laura: She cast Revivify at fourth level the last time.
Marisha: Do it, do it, do it.
Travis: The eggs that remain are toast?
Laura: Holy shit.
Matt: Two of them are completely destroyed and there is one that has been shot and is leaking.
Laura: I have it circled.
Taliesin: Don't worry about it. Let's get out there.
Travis: Alright, that ends my turn.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Vex. I need you to make a death saving throw.
Laura: Right. I'm scared of all these dice.
Travis: I'm using what's left of my movement to go towards that egg.
Matt: Towards this egg?
Travis: Yeah, the one shot egg.
Matt: Okay. 
Taliesin: I'm gonna try something weird.
Matt: That's two death saving throws on Vex.
Travis: You failed it?
Laura: I failed it.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: I stumble over to my sister and cast Lay on Hands and give her five to bring her back.
Matt: So, yeah, cause you've been giving it out--
Liam: I haven't done anything with Lay on Hands. Or I might have done it once but I always do very small amounts. I have a total of 15 hit points cause I'm a third level--
Matt: I'm pretty sure you used it once before.
Liam: But I've never used more than five with that spell cause it's worthless to heal. It's just good for bringing up. So I have at least 10 hit points left.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Five hit points.
Laura: Yeah, cause the only time you used it before was when you BAMFed up to my broom after I grabbed the dagger.
Matt: You're still prone by the way. You just basically crawled over and touched her.
Liam: That's fine. I'm gonna use the rest of my movement to stand.
Matt: Okay, so you stand up and you still have half your movement if you wanted to.
Liam: Everyone who's down, who's down? And I don't mean dead. -Pike just got--
Taliesin: Pike's up.
Matt: Pike is conscious, your sister's conscious.
Liam: Is Kima conscious?
Laura: Yes. Kima's conscious.
Liam: So, we've got dead Scanlan.
Taliesin: And that's-- that's Pike's problem.
Liam: And that's it, I'm done. Wait, where's that egg?
Matt: Which one?
Liam: It doesn't matter.
Laura: It's the last egg.
Liam: I'm done, I'm done.
Matt: Alrighty, that ends Vax's turn.
Laura: Just worried there's gonna be another lair action in the same spot.
Matt: Kima rushes up and swinging her holy sword in the air, goes for a full swing, noticing that everybody's now conscious, goes and takes a full swing towards this invisible barrier. As it streaks across, you see divine energy go flying off in a shower of sparks and a giant shimmering, shaking visual on this-- this force wall that stands here in the center of the hallway. As she finishes her attack, it shimmers unscathed. She goes for a secondary attack. Strikes again. This time as it strikes across the sparks are even brighter and you can see the impact almost pushing her back off of her feet and as the blade comes to the end of its second arc. She looks up. The wall still stands.
Travis: You are shitting me. It doesn't flicker, doesn't--
Laura: It needs like a dispel or something.
Marisha: Oh my God, I could-- Oh my God, I could!
Taliesin: Alright, that's an option.
Matt: Alrighty that brings us to...
Matt: J'Mon. J'Mon rushes. Flies up to the edge and kind of takes a moment streak a few claws across it. And where the claws streak, you can see the shimmering of this force wall.
Travis: Well, phone's out, oh God.
Matt: "The phone's out, oh God"?
Sam: He's calling an Uber because he knows we're gonna kill him after this is done.
Matt: Come on, four percent, I got four percent left.
Sam: Four percent, get this man a charger!
Matt: I know.
Sam: Taliesin!
Liam: No, no, no. Let's start a YouTube video on it.
Sam: Can you run this over to Matt?
Matt: Yeah. J'Mon, with each strike, is like testing the boundaries of it across the sides of the tunnel and just goes... "This magic holds."
Travis: What? It holds? "It--it holds?"
Matt: Fun charger.
Taliesin: Let me know, I've got maybe a plan. Yeah, you've got that. That's an option, I've got another plan. You know my plan, my plan kind of sucks, but.
Matt: I'm not getting a charge.
Sam: Give it somebody else. There's a button.
Matt: That's alright. It happens. Anyway.
Taliesin: No, no, it should just start.
Sam: No, there's a button.
Taliesin: Oh, there is a button.
Sam: There's a button, he'll find it.
Matt: J'Mon, oh, J'Mon gets the breath weapon back. And kind of pushes... both Kima and Gilmore aside. "Excuse me." And unleashes a blast of burning hot breath across this wall. As it hits, it just curls across and spreads across the side of the walls as the dragon shields both Kima and Gilmore from the blast. As it finishes, the flame has been split the entirety and has no effect on the wall.
Travis: Holy shit.
Laura: I wonder-- I wonder if the beehive thing above us, that the holes are covered in magic as well.
Travis: Are you conscious?
Laura: Am I-- I am conscious.
Taliesin: I say, well, maybe killing the eggs, I don't know. Kill the eggs.
Matt: Pike.
Travis: Or maybe it's like a Pacific Rim--
Laura: But I don't know what that says.
Sam: I--I can give it to you.
Laura: But it's now. My question is, Pike runs up, thank you. Oh, oh! If she runs up, is she gonna be able to get her hand on-- on Scanlan?
Matt: Well, she was-- She was prone, right? She just came back to consciousness. So she gets up for half her movement.
Taliesin: We got a minute. Got a minute.
Travis: I would have picked her up after the last time. I was being pissed about-- I mean, you know, she's so tiny.
Matt: Being a gnome, it's one of those things where 25 feet halved and you always round on the lower end of the scale. At ten feet, she's not close enough to touch Scanlan. Yet.
Marisha: Even with the Sprinter's Boots?
Matt: Sprinter's Boots already got used. It's got one round use.
Laura: She says "She can use the Sprinter's Boots twice" in all caps.
Matt: Alright then.
Taliesin: The caps are what make it worthwhile.
Matt: I'll trust her.
Travis: She's on a 30 second delay so she wrote that before we said it.
Laura: Actually she did write that before we said it.
Matt: Good, alright then. Then that will be just enough to put her up next to Scanlan.
Laura: Okay. So, Pike puts her hands on either side of his face and says, "Scanlan. Your letter to me was wonderful and I want to do what you asked but I can't raise Kaylee alone, I need you to come back." And she casts Revivify on him.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll a d20.
Laura: I'm so scared. Thirteen?
Matt: Thirteen, okay. As she implores to the spirit of Scanlan in this frozen form, you watch as the icy crystals that have coalesced around his form and locked him in his place, his face kind of-- This frozen look of horror. The ice begins to turn into mist around him and his color begins to return to his skin. His expression relaxes as his eyes suddenly focus and Scanlan, you find yourself conscious again looking up at Pike. Tears in her eyes, pulling her hand back from your shoulder. Looking up into the dark, you know, glowing lit interior of Thordak's lair.
Sam: Don't cry. I'm just a little cold.
Laura: "Warm up. Does anybody have a blanket?"
Sam: "Just hold me."
Laura: "Okay."
Travis: She sent a picture.
Laura: She did. She sent a picture of the Sprinter's Boots cards with two uses.
Travis: "Used twice while in rest..."
Matt: There we go. Cool, that's what I wanted, thank you. So make sure everyone has their equipment cards on them. Alright, so that finishes Pike's turn. Scanlan, you're conscious now.
Sam: Hi.
Travis: Welcome back, we're still fucked by the way.
Sam: What's going on?
Travis: They sealed us in here with a giant magic screen across this door. Dragon's breath does nothing, Kima does nothing. You know anything about this? Any limericks for magic cave doors?
Sam: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Laura: Glad you're back, Scanlan.
Sam: Thanks, thanks. I've got one thing up my sleeve. It's a dog that can run around and help us. That's about it.
Laura: Are we gonna have to take a short rest?
Taliesin: No.
Sam: I don't know, I don't know. What-- there's magic there? I can't do anything about that.
Laura: Can I-- can I-- I know I'm gonna-- Can I broom up to the holes? God, I'm so scared to get on this broom again.
Taliesin: Well, it's not-- we're still--
Laura: Oh, in our order?
Marisha: We're still going in order?
Marisha: Do you still have a Mansion?
Matt: Well, right now, as we're getting back into this. Percy, what are you doing?
Marisha: I have a crazy plan.
Laura: Did you let the dog out?
Sam: No, I don't know what--
Travis: Who let the dog out?
Laura: Scanlan, did you let the dog out?
Sam: Keyleth, do you have a crazy plan?
Marisha: You only have to cast the Mansion Door within line of sight, correct?
Sam: Yes.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: I don't know that that's true actually. Three hundred feet, 300 feet range.
Laura: Do you have it left?
Sam: I do.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay, two things. One, before we start burning our seventh level spells, I still have Stone Shape. Can Keyleth go up to the wall and do I have enough-- is there just enough room in the corridor walls that I could Stone Shape--
Sam: I could Dimension Door out of here.
Laura: Why would you just--
Liam: You get a tunnel for all of us, mate.
Sam: Yeah, that would just be me.
Marisha: Can I Stone Shape a tunnel kind of around the thing? Or is--
Matt: First things first, Mordenkainen's Magnificent Mansion is a one minute casting time.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: So you could do it, but in the process of doing so, you'd probably go through about 10 different lair actions in here.
Taliesin: Yeah, there's that.
Matt: So, Keyleth, you're using, you said, stone--
Marisha: Can I Stone Shape a little passage around? Do I have just enough kinda to where I can-- where the barrier is I can kind of carve a little corridor around?
Liam: Around or under?
Matt: It would be very tiny and you'd have to crawl through to create enough-- Cause you're not quite sure how thick the barrier is, so you have to be-- have to roll an investigation check and based on your roll, I'll let you know.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: This is a plan.
Marisha: Eight.
Matt: Eight? You're not sure, you can give it a shot.
Marisha: I'm-- might as well give it a shot, I mean--
Matt: Before it gets to you, it does come back to a lair action.
Laura: Wait, but--
Sam: On my turn, I drank a potion.
Matt: Okay, so take your healing.
Sam: That's it.
Taliesin: Has my turn not come up yet?
Laura: I hate that we can't get out of this fucking area!
Matt: Sorry, I asked you what you were doing.
Taliesin: Oh, I want to try something stupid.
Matt: What do you want to try?
Taliesin: I want to try and run headlong at the barrier.
Matt: Okay. Well, you have to--
Laura: Don't get too close into this area, Percy, cause this is where the fucking lair action keeps coming up.
Taliesin: I want to stay on the wall.
Matt: Stay on the wall, okay. Leaving you roughly there. So even a full turn, that's as far as you could get on a double run.
Taliesin: Yeah, and I'm up on the wall still.
Matt: Cool. Alright, now-- now this happens. With this, the quakiness of the lair seems to be subsiding a little bit. There is a tremor on the ground. It only effects those directly around the barrier, so that's my people. Everyone succeeds, so no one falls prone. So no effect on that lair action, per se. Alright, past that. You can see in the distance, past the wall, dark in the tunnel, which is almost pitch black beyond the radius, you see this slight purplish glow and then a flash of purple energy.
Taliesin: God, fucking damn it!
Marisha: Talking to Thordak!
Sam: Should I go?
Laura: What are you gonna do?
Sam: Distract it, do something.
Travis: You're gonna be all by yourself.
Marisha: Okay, I'm gonna Stone Shape and try and just cast a little, even if it's a corridor just right around.
Matt: It's a touch spell so you have to get up to it, so you're back there. So you just get up to the edge of the doorway and the wall with a double run.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Okay?
Marisha: I'm go ahead and can I use a bonus action.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I'm gonna use my-- no, no, no, I'm gonna just drink a healing potion real quick. Just one of my Greaters.
Matt: Okay, go for it. So it is 4d4 plus four. Alright. Gilmore.
Taliesin: This poor book has seen better days.
Matt: Gilmore doesn't really have anything that can be of aid right now.
Matt: Gilmore moves over towards you. Preparing for what you're up to, and just kind of puts his hand on your shoulder, Keyleth, and goes, "Whatever you're doing, I'm right behind you. Don't worry."
Taliesin: Hold you up so you don't fall.
Matt: Grog, you're up.
Marisha: I'm not feeling very confident right now.
Travis: You look like you're up to something, do you have a plan?
Marisha: I'm trying to Stone Shape a corridor through this, but I don't know if it's going to be enough to get through the thickness.
Travis: Right, as a backup plan...
Travis: How big is J'Mon Sa Ord? Like a big dragon or just like eh?
Matt: About the same size as Raishan.
Travis: So, we couldn't like all Falcor on J'Mon up to the spider network of tunnels in the ceiling, right? Like we couldn't ride him.
Matt: Raishan and J'Mon have a very similar physicality. Like their bodies can, much like a cat can get really thin, just enough to fit through the tunnels, maybe, but not with any riders. You guys would probably be squeezed off or crushed in the process.
Travis: Could she get us up there and then follow us up through the tunnels if we--
Taliesin: We don't know where they go.
Travis: It's better than this place. They're exhaust tunnels.
Taliesin: That's fair, although I will say, before we leave, we should probably make sure all those eggs are down -before we leave anyway.
Travis: That's my idea. And then, I'm gonna end my turn.
Laura: Are you gonna run and hit an egg?
Travis: Oh, yeah!
Laura: There's an egg left over there.
Taliesin: Hit an egg.
Travis: Shamone! Yeah, I'll just run towards egg. Ooh! I'm gonna use all three of my attacks on that egg.
Matt: Go for it. Go for it.
Marisha: Egg doesn't know what's coming.
Travis: That's a-- that's a 33.
Matt: That'll hit.
Travis: Oh, minus five. Okay. That's a 31, no, 39.
Matt: Okay, so the first strike just cleaves through the egg entirely.
Travis: Oh.
Matt: I know. You impact at the point of the bullet that Percy left earlier, which kind of left that spider web crack in the front and that just causes the entire thing to buckle under the sheer force of your axe as it swings. The egg gets cut in half, tumbles over, splattering primordial dragon whelp gore and you can see the remnants inside of what is now a two-parter primordial dragon whelp.
Laura: Did it look like Thordak?
Travis: Did any dragon parts spill out of the egg?
Matt: Yeah, as it flew off and kind--
Travis: Could I grab a piece of it, take a step back and try and like throw it towards the wall to see if it bounces off as well? Just in case it's like a, you know, lair barcode?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: Hey, we got through!
Marisha: They got the key card.
Taliesin: Multi-pass.
Matt: As you pull it up, and this creature is, nearly identical to the one that you pulled out earlier. It's still deep red crimson, but like fully, fully primordial in its visual. You take back a chunk of it and you throw it at the wall and it just passes through. (gasps)
Sam: What just happened?
Marisha: Shut up!
Laura: You were right!
Sam: What did he just do?
Taliesin: You solved it!
Sam: How, what did he do?
Liam: Destroying the last egg.
Sam: Fucking guy!
Laura: Or by--
Marisha: Or by-- it's like he said. We cover ourselves in dragon goo and then we can walk through.
Taliesin: One of the two.
Travis: Residual goo in my hand, I just like rub it all on my face.
Matt: It smells terrible.
Taliesin: You can hop in the egg. It's basically a hot tub.
Marisha: We didn't destroy all the eggs, right?
Matt: Currently, you destroyed three of them and two were lightning baked and taken off by Raishan.
Sam: My voice is my passport.
Marisha: So, do it. It's hard to say.
Taliesin: I love that movie.
Laura: Maybe we should hold onto a piece and try to pass through it.
Taliesin: Hello.
Matt: Well, that finishes Grog's turn. Vex?
Laura: That's me. I used a level-- did I use a level four spell already? Shit.
Matt: I'm pretty sure you guys went down guns blazing.
Taliesin: Somewhere in the world, there's a whole chatroom of people yelling at you telling you--
Laura: Oh, that's right, I did. I did use it cause I was--
Marisha: Yeah, I was gonna say, "somewhere"?
Laura: So I have a level three left. Who needs healing? Me and Pike and everybody.
Taliesin: There's always-- everybody needs healing.
Marisha: Me.
Laura: You do.
Sam: I got single dig going on.
Laura: So do I, I got five.
Travis: Single dig.
Laura: I got five points, how many you got?
Sam: I got eight or nine, I can't remember my math. It's pretty bad. Wait, if I had one, plus eight would be nine.
Laura: So you have nine points. I'm gonna take a healing potion. I mean, I'm gonna cast Cure Wounds on myself.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oh, yeah, you do your thing.
Matt: 3d8 plus whatever your modifier is, go for it.
Taliesin: It's all good.
Marisha: Kind of.
Taliesin: No, it's not, I know, but like, it's looking better.
Marisha: Well, we're not all dead. We just can't die anymore.
Taliesin: And worst case scenario, we're stuck in here for another round.
Laura: So, 20 points.
Matt: Twenty points, okay.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: And you didn't even burn a spell yet.
Laura: Can I run over and get some dragon guts on my hand and then to try to put my hand through the thingy?
Matt: With your speed and getting up, cause you were prone.
Laura: Please let me out of this spot.
Matt: That close right there. You can't quite get to the dragon guts. That's as far as you can get.
Taliesin: It may just be that it's down now, but it may be the dragon guts.
Matt: Alright, so that ends Vex's turn, Vax. Whatcha doing?
Liam: I'm just gonna move towards the gate. Put my hand out and see if I can go through or if I get stopped.
Matt: You walk right through.
Taliesin: Alright!
Laura: Oh!
Marisha: It's the eggs, it was the eggs.
Liam: Alright, everybody! Quietly.
Marisha: Hang on, hang on. I'm feeling very guilty because it was my rage and anger and want for vengeance which made me run in here blindly towards her, maybe we shouldn't do it again is all I'm saying.
Taliesin: No, too late. Got to finish this off.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Does your guilt have a Mass Cure Wounds? In that case, doesn't matter.
Matt: "Forward, now!" And all of you just start...
Marisha: Avengers Run down the hall.
Matt: Like crawling over all of you.
Taliesin: Avengers, it's clobbering time.
Sam: I--I grab Kima and I say, "Get ready to hit a dragon," and I'm gonna Dimension Door me and Kima to Thordak's body.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh, geez.
Matt: Kima goes, "Wait, what?" As soon as you grab the shoulder and you both suddenly vanish and reappear at Thordak's body. You both land with a flash of arcane light. As your feet hit the ground, it is an empty tunnel. So, no Raishan. -There is no Thordak corpse.
Laura: Fuck.
Sam: There's no Thordak's corpse?
Marisha: There's no Thordak's corpse?
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Fuck! Fuck.
Liam: She just wanted to talk to it.
Taliesin: She may have taken him somewhere.
Travis: Talk to it, my ass. She didn't want to talk to it.
Marisha: Or she raised him. Jesus.
Liam: One last roll in the hay.
Matt: As you guys approach, Gilmore steps up and goes, "I think I have a pretty good idea what that flash we saw was."
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: Teleport.
Matt: "Getting the hell out of here. Son of a bitch!" He takes a rock and throws it. Hair's kind of tussled.
Marisha: Vex, can you sense dragons anywhere nearby?
Laura: Can I sense anyone but J'Mon Sa Ord as far as dragons go nearby? I drop down to my knees and concentrate.
Matt: No.
Laura: Nothing! Nothing. She's nowhere. Fuck.
Matt: And that's where we'll end tonight's episode. (all groaning) We have a flight early in the morning.
Travis: Oh!
Laura: I can't believe that we all came back.
Taliesin: I can't believe we all lived.
Matt: I can't believe you all lived.
Taliesin: That should not have happened.
Marisha: That was really scary.
Laura: It was just giant clusterfuck from like halfway through with just everybody falling down and trying to get back up.
Matt: Well, if-- If you had fallen into the lava, by the way, if you had rolled poorly, you would have been submerged in lava, which was...
Laura: Unconscious.
Matt: Well, that-- that's 18d10 points of damage. If that had exceeded your max hit points, you would have been instantly dead and turned to ash.
Liam: Been nice if I'd cut out her tongue.
Laura: So, gone, gone-gone.
Matt: Yeah. There were a few close calls there.
Travis: She was like three. I think there were like nine.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: And then if you hadn't counter spelled the color...
Matt: Oh, yeah, the Prismatic Spray. That would have been real bad.
Sam: Who was she shooting against?
Taliesin: Everybody.
Marisha: It's a spray.
Matt: It's a cone that big.
Taliesin: So it would have been almost everybody.
Matt: Just so you guys know, cause it's a fun spell to kind of talk about.
Taliesin: It is.
Matt: And each of you would have been hit with a different colored ray. I would have rolled a d8 to see what color had hit you. On a one, you take 10d6 fire damage. On a failed save, half. An orange, take 10d6 acid damage, save for half. Yellow: 10d6 lightning damage. So, just randomly all of you guys basically just take 10d6 of something. Green: you take 10d6 poison damage, half save. Five, 10d6 cold damage. Six, on a failed save, you're restrained and you have to keep making saves or you turn to stone. Seven, you're blinded and you have to keep saving. A successful save ends it, if you fail the next save, you will be transported to another plane.
Laura: What?!
Sam: There's one where you get to do two things.
Matt: On an eight, on an eight, I roll again for two rays against that person.
Laura: Oh my God!
Travis: For two rays?
Sam: What if you keep rolling eights?
Matt: Keep rolling eights, you're gonna be fucked. It's a fun one. I like that spell.
Laura: Wait, what is a 10? Is 10 insta-death, what is 10?
Matt: It's one d8, so ten would be instant death, it would be. If I roll a 10 on a d8, sure. You are so done.
Taliesin: The other plane of dimension is like literally the Beetlejuice, like send you to the sandworms. You're just--
Matt: Oops.
Taliesin: And that's-- you're out of the fight until they can go find you if anyone's left. After everyone else has taken 10d-- suck.
Matt: So, guys, we'll pick this up again next week on Thursday. Find out where Raishan is.
Travis: Maybe.
Matt: With two eggs and the corpse of Thordak, The Cinder King.
Laura: Well, hopefully, oh my God.
Taliesin: Red eggs and ham?
Travis: Yeah, she just escaped with two Iphone 7's.
Matt: You start with a disadvantage.
Taliesin: I just want the internet to do a Dr. Seuss red eggs and-- I just want her with like a little red steak and two little red-- That's all I want.
Matt: Alright, guys. You guys, we'll see you at MAGFest this weekend. We'll see you there shortly.
Sam: Remember, bring your magazines and have Matt and Marisha sign any magazine.
Taliesin: Highlights.
Marisha: Yeah, all magazines. We will sign them.
Liam: I mean, you're gonna say, you don't know, but if J'Mon had not nurked those three attacks that round, might she have gone down?
Matt: She came pretty close.
Laura: Oh, yeah, if J'Mon had not gotten three, two, one.
Matt: Three, two and a one.
Marisha: That sucked.
Matt: That really sucked.
Marisha: I was about to lay some serious damage when she ran away. I was gonna bust out a seventh level blight and then she ran.
Matt: I wasn't getting-- cause that the fire breath is nasty.
Marisha: Yeah, and he didn't fucking recharge it.
Travis: If your highness wasn't smart enough to break another egg...
Laura: I got to attack one time that round. Every other round was just trying not to die.
Liam: He should have stretched before the fight.
Matt: But anyway.
Marisha: Happy New Year.
Matt: Happy New Year! Well done, guys, you survived.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yay.
Matt: Mostly. Thank you so much for our sponsor tonight, nobody. 2017. You guys are our sponsors. Well, every week you are. So thank you for all your wonderful support. Happy New Year, welcome to the chaos of 2017. We're there alongside you for it. We'll see you guys soon and... Is it Thursday yet? Have a good night. 

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. We have an Ashley Johnson in transit from the airport, fresh from her vacation. She'll be here asap.
Marisha: I wonder if she'll be nice and tanned.
Travis: (burps) Probably not.
Sam: That's too specific. Too specific, she might have gone to a place that wasn't a tannable place.
Marisha: Oh, that's true. That's true.
Sam: Too specific.
Taliesin: Could have been tundra. Could have been tundra.
Matt: This is true. Should be the tundra. Sounds like a great place to spend--
Liam: She could have gone skiing and just gotten a sunburn here, like this.
Matt: That's true. That's true. Anyway, so Ashley will be joining us as soon as she arrives. Coming in hot! In the meantime, let's go ahead and cruise through our announcements. Let's see. Do we have any updates on merch at all, Laura?
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: What do you got?
Laura: Okay. So we put our dice up for pre-order and they're already sold out in pre-order.
Matt: What?
Laura: But we're going to get more. I don't know when, but soon, very soon.
Travis: We're struggling to keep up.
Laura: Yeah. We have these still in stock though. Some of these are still left, which are awesome, and they're so soft. And we have all the other t-shirts as well, except for the 'dagger, dagger, dagger' that Matt's wearing. Maybe we'll be getting those back in. I'm not sure. But all the other stuff. The nail wraps, and the vinyl stickers, and the hats.
Matt: I still remember when we printed ourselves a hundred shirts on this show, hoping that maybe some people will buy some.
Laura: I mean, do you remember the party that we had when we all put them in the envel-- sorry, baby. (laughter)
Liam: How many dice are you able to build a night?
Laura: Oh. I hand-carve like ten to 20 depending how much time I have but--
Travis: (whip crack)
Liam: I mean, that's what the wait is for.
Taliesin: Mine's kind of wonky, can I get a new one? Got a little--
Laura: I'm sorry if they're misbalanced. I make them out of soap, so--
Travis: Stone. Soap-stone.
Marisha: Do you use Charlie to clean up the shavings?
Travis: He's a good little worker.
Matt: It's pretty cool, too, because if you want to balance or find out and make sure the dice are perfectly balanced, you put it in the water but then you can't use the dice anymore because it just makes it soap.
Laura: Yeah. But you smell fresh and clean.
Matt: This is true. So fresh and so clean. All righty. Taliesin, Wednesday Club coming up.
Taliesin: Yeah. We're talking about the Eisners this week. The Eisners got announced all in-- a couple friends of the show.
Marisha: Yeah, Jodie.
Taliesin: Jodie got announced. I think Max got announced for one. I haven't gone through the whole list, but we're going to start talking about the Eisners and it's probably-- we're going to break it up but I think we're probably going to have three talks about the Eisners. There's a lot to talk about. It'll be great.
Marisha: Yeah, like what are the Eisners?
Taliesin: What are the Eisners? Who was Eisner? And--
Marisha: And why Eisner?
Taliesin: What are these books? What does it mean? We don't know. We'll find out.
Marisha: And why do we care?
Taliesin: I don't know. But we do.
Matt: 'Cause they're awesome. So that's Wednesday Club on Wednesday at noon to 2PM.
Taliesin: Wednesday, noon to 2PM Pacific Standard Time.
Matt: Perfecto. New episode of Signal Boost went up this week. Marisha, you want to talk about that?
Marisha: It was Hannah Mahoney. It was good. You should watch it.
Matt: (singsong) Hannah Mahoney.
Marisha: She's got a cool name.
Matt: That's one of the coolest names.
Marisha: Yeah, Hannah Mahoney? That's a dope name. But yeah. Go check it out.
Matt: Pretty sure a Street Fighter character says that when they make an attack.
Marisha: Yeah, most definitely.
Matt: Like, I want that name so bad. It's amazing.
Marisha: And we're filming again soon.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: We're filming soon. Maybe someday Sam will come on. Maybe someday Bailey will come on. Maybe someday Ashley will come on. It's a mystery.
Travis: She didn't say my fucking name. (laughter)
Marisha: I just assumed you're not interested, 'cause you've never been.
Travis: This is a sportsball.
Matt: Actually, can you please do that? It's ten seconds long, and that's the entire episode.
Marisha: I still wanna make Sportsball, but you won't let me. I wanna make it with you. See? He says no.
Laura: Don't say you wanna make it with my husband. (laughter)
Sam: Why don't we all make Sportsball without Travis, and just be terrible at talking about sports, and he'll be like, I can't, I can't watch this, I gotta go do it.
Taliesin: Which ones are the Gryffindors? I know one of these two teams is the Gryffindors.
Travis: I would watch every episode of that. I would correct nothing.
Taliesin: Oh wait, wait, that's the line de scrimmage, right? That's where they--
Travis: The lined of scrimmage.
Taliesin: The line of scrimmage, yeah. The line.
Marisha: How about this? Will you come on Signal Boost, and we can do a pseudo-pilot test of Sportsball with Signal Boost? Would you do that?
Travis: Nope, fuck that.
Marisha: See? And he wonders why I didn't ask.
Matt: All righty. So, next up. (laughter)
Matt: Once again, MomoCon's coming up very, very close, May 25th to the 28th. Taliesin, Marisha, myself, and Brian Foster will be there to talk about nerdy stuff. MomoCon? Two Street Fighter attacks in one intro. This is already a good Thursday, I'm excited.
Liam: How-do-you-want-to-DOUKEN!
Matt: And I would-- please, I would beg you, nobody put that laser in my eye. Please. I've already got lasers in them once. Children. Children! Thanks, whoever sent those. It's great. I love it. (laughter)
Matt: Why must you arm them? It's herding cats enough as it is. All right, and then Talks Machina is live on Tuesdays at 7PM, of course, we're gonna be next Tuesday with Brian Foster, talking about this episode, so come check it out on Twitch and Alpha. And do we have anything else anyone wants to--
Sam: I have an announcement. We have a fan out there who just got out of surgery. His name is Kurt Shappacher, but in D&D is known as Bork, The Most Eloquent Half-Orc, and I want to wish him a speedy recovery.
Matt: Speedy recovery!
Sam: And I'll kiss his surgical scar if I ever meet him.
Marisha: Wow.
Sam: Depending on where it is on his body. I mean.
Matt: Aw, that won't stop you, Sam. This is true. Awesome. And then we have this fantastic scenario.
Liam: You were not able to attend Critmas.
Sam: I was not.
Liam: But you were sent something very specific by a huge list of Critters.
Laura: Which just fell on the ground.
Liam: I will get that in a second. We haven't looked at it.
Sam: Am I to unveil it right now?
Liam: Right now. There could be something so foul on it, we don't know.
Sam: Can you help me unveil it, people at table one? It is a quilt. Oh my god. It's so big. It's so mighty. It's so many pictures of me! This is everything that I've ever wanted to sleep on.
Laura: Why is it velcro?
Sam: Why are you ripping this thing?
Taliesin: There's velcro!
Sam: Don't tear it! (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, it's a velcro duvet cover.
Sam: It's all posts and artwork of my character-- my former character, Scanlan Shorthalt! (laughter)
Sam: Wow, it's so great.
Matt: That's amazing.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: I need you to stand up with it so we can see what it looks like.
Matt: I love the giant mustache, there's a giant mustache on there.
Taliesin: I think it divides into four, actually.
Matt: Does it really?
Marisha: Wait, is it a cube? It is not a cube. Is it?
Sam: We'll find out at the break, we'll find out at the break. We're not gonna waste too much time, here.
Taliesin: Yup, that's a thing, okay.
Matt: There you go, yeah, there is a mustache, that's awesome.
Sam: It's so great. Picture of me, picture of me, another picture of me. I love it. (laughter)
Laura: There was one more thing.
Liam: This is a quick one.
Sam: There's another thing?
Laura: Yeah. You got a bunch of things, but these are the ones we're passing to you on the show.
Liam: It's an itty-bitty Doty.
Sam: Oh, it is a little itty-bitty Doty! And he's got a tiny little book! Oh, he's so cute. The little book actually has little pages. It's so cute.
Liam: I sold Travis's gifts.
Laura: Made a lot of money off of them.
Liam: Five dollars.
Sam: It was a real Heisman trophy. (laughter)
Travis: Damn, that would be awesome. If you have a real Heisman trophy, please, send it to our PO box. I will take that.
Matt: Unearned accolades.
Sam: If you get a Heisman trophy, will you do Sportsball: The Show?
Laura: Yes, yes, you have to say yes to that.
Liam: Teach me how to sports.
Travis: For one episode. If I get a legitimate Heisman trophy.
Sam: What about a Superbowl ring?
Travis: Yes, I'll do a whole thing of Sportsball. If you give me a Superbowl ring that's worth 45 grand? Yeah. (laughter)
Sam: You heard him, Critters! Go on out and-- for a shitty show?
Travis: Diamond-encrusted, super well-paid, yeah, I'll do that. We'll have lasers and smoke and all sorts of shit.
Marisha: Nope, can't get that from LDN. Cannot promise that from Legendary. Nope. Not for a Twitch show. If you make it an Alpha show, then I can get you money. (laughter)
Taliesin: The Alpha team is laughing right now.
Marisha: They know it's true. Just like we all know our logo looks like a weed shop sign. We all know it's true. I should probably stop saying this stuff. It might be a breach of contract. Let's keep going. (laughter)
Sam: We'll edit this out later.
Matt: We'll fix it in post.
Liam: Just like rehearsal.
Matt: All right, so, let's get ready to dive in. I know today's been a harrowing day for a lot of people. It's gonna be okay. And don't forget what this feels like. That's all I have to say.
Laura: And we love you.
Matt: We love you so much. It's gonna be all right. Don't forget. On that note, everyone, let's go ahead and bring ourselves in to dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role.
Liam: Whee! [dramatic music]
Travis: -- Tetris.
Matt: Welcome back. (laughter)
Matt: God damn it. Anyway. I expect everything else. Well done. Well done, Travis, well done. It's like worrying walking through a door 'cause everyone's just waiting to punch you as you come through. Every week. It's kind of amazing.
Liam: It's one of those videos where the guys are waiting with the big exercise balls to just wing them there.
Matt: Yeah, no shit, and you know what? I'm stronger for it. So thank you guys. You've been training me with weights on for two years now.
Liam: You have passed through fire.
Matt: So, last we left off, Vox Machina, having completed their venture over the past few arcs, having freed Whitestone from the tyranny of the Briarwoods, having brought down the Chroma Conclave, and essentially brought freedom back to Tal'Dorei, you closed up some loose ends, Keyleth finished her Aramente, and you all went to your business for a year-long time jump. You returned, and each of you recounted the things you wished to accomplish in that year, culminating in a Winter's Crest beachside vacation in the Bay of Gifts at the Port of Shamel, which involved some escalating pranks.
Laura: Wait a minute, is it really the Bay of Gifts? With a "T"?
Matt: Yes, with a "T".
Laura: I seriously thought it's the Bay of Gifs. This whole time.
Taliesin: The Bay of Jifs.
Laura: I'm sorry, okay, I understand now.
Liam: Retcon.
Matt: And it is so named because it is such a centralized port for trade across the various continents in that area, so it's a place where it's affluent, and it's funny, it's kind of ironic, 'cause everything there is expensive, as you found out. But, nevertheless, you returned to your home in Whitestone, and reconvened, especially after building your bake shop in Whitestone, but she's not paying attention, so that's fine.
Laura: I'm sorry, he was distracting me.
Matt: That's okay. Anyway, so.
Travis: Fucking twins.
Matt: (laughs) I know, seriously. But upon situating yourselves after you've returned, and enjoying this peaceful period of recovery and expansion of Whitestone itself, there was an arrival on the outskirts of the city. There was a cart, horses pulling a group of four gnomes that all eventually revealed themselves to be family of Pike Trickfoot. After taking them in, whether or not you were excited or eager to, nevertheless, you treated them with hospitality, you gave them a place to stay, you gave them food for the evening, conversations were had, information was passed around, and a handful of you, upon listening in on some of the conversations and pushing for information with the eldest of them, Uncle Ogden, discovered some sort of true purpose as to why they came to Whitestone, dealing with, apparently, a long-running blood curse that lies in the Trickfoot family. And Ogden, having visions, had, along with the rest of the family that takes care of him, made their way towards Whitestone as the information gathered by JB Trickfoot, the esteemed keeper of knowledge about your journey over the past year or so, and the exploits of her cousin, Pike, has told you. So, that being the case, you've promised them a tour of the grounds, and, perhaps, seeking more information about what the next steps are in regarding this curse, if there are any. So, with that, you all finish your evening. Eating of your meals, drinking deep of your cups, and eventually finding yourselves resting 'til the night took you and sleep was had. The morning comes, you wake up rested, and the day is yours. What do you wish to do?
Laura: I think we had talked about going to see Pike's great-grandfather, Wilhand, to talk about the curse with him, right?
Travis: Don't look at me, I have a tour to give.
Laura: Right, Grog and Percival, you were going to help with that tour.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: To keep him out of trouble.
Travis: What?
Laura: Huh?
Marisha: Maybe keep an eye on them, make sure they don't have sticky fingers.
Travis: They don't wash their hands?
Laura: Not very often. You saw how much candy they were eating yesterday.
Travis: That's really disgusting.
Liam: Do you want to do the talking and I'll keep an eye on hands?
Taliesin: I think, between the three of us, it should be fine if the rest of you want to go and--
Marisha: Talk to Wilhand?
Taliesin: -- talk to Wilhand and see what information you can glean.
Marisha: Percy?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: I have a question.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: Ogden, in his ramblings, mentioned a shadowy figure with burning coal eyes. This doesn't sound like anything that you're familiar with, does it?
Taliesin: Well, I mean, yes, but that is honestly like saying 'a man with brown hair of average height' when it comes to these sorts of creatures. It could be anything. It's kind of the effect they go for.
Marisha: How did Orthax take his form with you?
Taliesin: No glowing eyes.
Marisha: No glowing eyes.
Taliesin: No. So, there's that.
Laura: He had a bird-like thing in the face.
Taliesin: A bit of smoke. Lots of smoke and bird-like.
Liam: It's quite an aesthetic.
Marisha: But you think it might still be of the same fiendish nature?
Taliesin: Honestly, who knows? We don't know enough yet. It's too general.
Liam: It could also potentially be bullshit.
Taliesin: It could also potentially be bullshit. We'll know more when they decide to open up, or if your travels for information bear fruit.
Marisha: Should we bring Wilhand back here?
Taliesin: I imagine that depends on him.
Laura: If he wants to come.
Sam: We're taking Pike to Wilhand, I mean.
Laura: Yes.
Sam: Pike, you want to go see Wilhand, right?
Taliesin: (high-pitched) Oh, yes!
Sam: Oh! I'll take that as a yes.
Matt: Get here soon, Ashley! Please! Have you guys informed Pike of this information?
Laura: Oh, yeah, yeah, we talked about it last time.
Matt: At the end of the last-- yeah, so she's like, "I mean, I think we should. Right?"
Marisha: Well, how about you guys go on your tour--
Laura: First. I mean, we'll head over there while you guys do--
Sam: Simultaneously, but we'll leave just a moment later.
Marisha: Yeah, theoretically.
Taliesin: So while this is both happening at the same time, there'll be some sort of narrative distance.
Marisha: Yeah, just a little.
Liam: What are you saying?
Taliesin: I don't know, I just had this weird aneurysm just hit my brain, I'm not entirely sure what it was.
Marisha: Just so when historians look back, and they want a detailed timeline of our lives.
Liam: Life is not a book!
Laura: Well, it depends on who you ask.
Taliesin: Have you met my friend, Lord Fourth Wall?
Laura: She wants to go see Wilhand, Pike definitely wants to go see Wilhand.
Marisha: We'll see you in 24 hours.
Laura: We'll head towards the old Sun Tree!
Matt: As you guys head down, you pass by the dining hall for breakfast. And there you already see Astra and Johann are in the process of having their own breakfast. By that, I mean you see Astra, who's currently hand-stitching new clothing from a clump of high-quality silks that she seems to have pulled from a number of noble dresses that are left within their guest quarters of Whitestone. As you glance on the table, there's a number of them folded over, but sections have been cut out, there's a pair of scissors on the side, and she's currently stitching through. As you walk in, she glances up and goes, "I've needed some new dresses for far too long. Y'all have some fine cloth here!"
Laura: Were those-- those didn't belong to your--
Taliesin: Oh. There's more. A few more at least. So. Yes.
Matt: And you watch as she fans out this new blouse. It's not the finest craftsmanship, but functional enough. She goes (sighs), rubs it against her face. "That's nice." And squeezes into it.
Laura: I go and grab a servant and tell them to quickly remove all of the clothing from the wardrobes in the guest quarters so that they don't do it again.
Taliesin: Anything that hasn't been cut yet, yes, please.
Matt: "Right away, Lady." Rushes off quickly. As this is happening, Johann's in the process of eating a breakfast that primarily consists of just fine cakes. He has clusters of dried baked good around the outside of his mouth and caught in his mustache, he's freshly washed his hair, freshly combed over and slicked with whatever equivalent of pomade he carries with himself. And as you walk by, you see this-- like he has the plate and there's just a crumb-circle around it that has emerged, and is in the process of his gluttonous eating, he stops and goes, "Such delicacies are a rare treat! You have to make time to enjoy the little things in life, don't you? At least when the opportunity arises."
Taliesin: Ah. A fairy circle. Make a wish. Ah. Anyway. We were hoping to gather the clan and take you on a tour of the estate when you're prepared.
Matt: Pulls up his shirt and dabs at his mouth. It barely touches any of the actual food that's around his mouth area. He stops and goes, "Right, right, of course, of course. We'll just wait for old Ogden to find his way down. He's a bit of a stickler when it comes to his time. So be patient, sit down, let's have a meal! Why not get to know each other a little better, yes?"
Travis: We do gotta wait for Uncle OG. By the way, since I'm the tour guide, do you have any plume-y hats? You know? 'Cause if you take like a campus tour, they have a flag and they're like, "Over here!" In case you get lost. Or like when tourists walk around and they're like, "Don't get left-- mm." Do you have anything like that?
Taliesin: Let me check. I'll be right back.
Travis: Good.
Laura: I'll go with him.
Sam: What campus tours have you been on? (laughter)
Liam: Is Trinket here?
Laura: Yes.
Liam: Trinket, breakfast, right around the little guy there. Go on. Free food.
Matt: At which point, as you're having this conversation, the large bear starts lumbering up, armor clattering as it approaches the table with absolutely no care or interest in the gnomish guy at the table, who immediately goes, "Oh! My-my-my-my!" And he backs out the center of his seat as the bear immediately (impact sounds) paws up and (slurps) starts licking up the crumbs and pieces of wayward pastry that have not found their way to the gnome's mouth, at which point he stands up off of his chair and rights himself. "Hm. Well. I'm stuffed. Let's go see how Ogden's doing. Astra!" "I'll be-- let me just finish this." "All right, we'll pick you up in a second. I'll go check in on Ogden." And he gets up and walks past, up the stairs. You are searching for what?
Taliesin: Oh, well, I've gone into my sister's bedroom and have begun to raid the spring clothing to find the most ostentatious hat I can find and start shoving as many things into it as I possibly can.
Matt: Make an investigation check, please.
Laura: I was going with you. I had said I went with you. Mostly to get away from the gnomes.
Matt: So you're both searching?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: So make an investigation check with advantage.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: Okay. Takes you a little bit, and you're being careful not to be too loud, 'cause the last thing you want is Cassandra to come in and watch you tearing through her outfits. But you do find what essentially amounts to a wide-brimmed captain's hat. It comes almost to a tri-corner point at the front and curves upward. It's mostly used for costuming purposes, it's reminiscent of masquerade balls, it's used for-- you actually recall, when she was younger, it was part of her masquerade ball wear. There was a mask with a long nose.
Taliesin: Sure, and it'll be very ill-fitting now.
Laura: Ooh, are there any ribbons around?
Matt: Yeah, you find ribbons easily enough.
Laura: I wanna tie a big purple giant bow around the top of it.
Taliesin: Get a feather in there, get the whole thing really. So it's very hard to lose him.
Matt: Make a dexterity check.
Laura: To see if I can tie a bow? Okay. Oh, that's a saving throw. This is low, but that's a 12.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: It's a bow.
Matt: Oh no. You successfully-- (laughs) You successfully create what is a bombastic bow of varying layers that plumes out three times. It resembles ribbon candy, almost, in the way that it billows out multiple ways, but it is pinned to the top, so it poofs as it cascades down the sides of the hat.
Taliesin: Are we missing something? I don't know. Is it finished?
Laura: A big feather, like a white, plumey feather?
Taliesin: I think we probably have a white, plumey feather. Oh, wait--
Laura: Or any color, really.
Taliesin: I'm gonna look to see if I can find some bells.
Matt: Okay. Not in Cassandra's room, but there is the royal stable not far away, which does have bells available in case they want to have parade accoutrements for the various horses and other afforded creatures.
Laura: Are these like jingle bells or big cow bells?
Matt: No, they're like jingle bells.
Taliesin: All right. I'm actually going to send you on that one, since you have the broom. We'll need two. I'll find a feather. All right. I'm going to just take a quill, basically, and stick it in there. I don't even care.
Marisha: You're making a Derby hat. That's appropriate.
Taliesin: I know, it's wonderful.
Matt: So yeah, over the next ten minutes or so, between your journey and your finding the proper feather plume, you guys manage to cobble together a delightfully ostentatious hat for Grog's presentory tour of Whitestone.
Laura: I want the bells to hang from either side like around his ears. Right here.
Matt: Okay, okay, cool. There you go. He has a couple of dangly bells.
Taliesin: I needed this.
Travis: It'll be good, it'll be like Karate Kid with the toy when he starts spinning it.
Matt: Perfect.
Travis: Oh, bells in my face. (laughter)
Matt: This magnificent mess of a hat that you guys have created is on par, if not slightly beyond, the previous helmet that he had acquired while in Syngorn.
Taliesin: Yeah, the horn helmet was pretty spectacular, but I feel like we may have topped it.
Matt: So. With that completed, what do you wish to do?
Marisha: I turn to JB real quick.
Matt: Well, JB hasn't come down yet.
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: Actually, while they're doing this, you guys are waiting, kind of having your own meals, and getting the day started. Eventually, you see Johann come down the spiral stairs that lead back to the main entryway to the castle, and behind, you see JB helping Uncle Ogden down, step by step, he still has his walking staff as he makes his way down. And they slowly make their way into the dining hall, sit down, and a simple meal of very, very soft oatmeal is presented for Uncle Ogden at their request before resting the night before, and JB gets her breakfast, and Johann is proud of the fact that he managed to acquire them, though it was not much of an ordeal on his end. Goes and joins Astra, and they seem to be eagerly awaiting the eventuality of this tour that they're all excited for. So you now can approach JB if you'd like.
Marisha: My question has been answered by their arrival, so never mind.
Sam: Was it "What does JB stand for?"
Taliesin: "What does JB eat?"
Marisha: It was "How long does Ogden take to get ready in the morning?" But now I know.
Laura: What does JB stand for?
Travis: I have a question for Astra.
Sam: Junior Bacon Cheeseburger. (laughter)
Travis: Best name ever!
Sam: That is a great name.
Travis: New favorite. Asterix, look, is there anything in Whitestone that you would fancy? Like, do you have any particular interests, whether they be art or education or geometry or buildings?
Matt: "To be honest, I just kinda want to see the history. I wanna see how long it's been here, I wanna see makes up the entirety of this crazy place. I haven't been inside a castle before, so this is a new experience for me."
Travis: Right. Did you want to see just the castle, or did you want the grand deluxe Poobah tour, which is around Whitestone as well?
Matt: "Well, how could I say no to that, honey?"
Travis: That's what I mean, yeah, that was a really good deal. Okay. Let me confer with my subordinate and we'll put together a tour package.
Matt: "I'm excited!"
Travis: Okay.
Laura: She's a little bitch. (laughter)
Travis: Hey, Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Travis: So Asterix says that she wants history of Whitestone and the castle, so like, I need a hotlist of things that we're gonna show her, but can we make it sound like I thought of it?
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: Okay, good. Just keeping you on your toes, mate.
Liam: He's not talking to himself. We all have earrings, he's talking to the others. If you were wondering.
Matt: "Right. I'm not one to judge. I mean, you've seen Ogden." And you glance over at Ogden, who's now in the process of trying to comb the oatmeal out of his beard while he's muttering below his breath. (incoherent muttering)
Liam: Are you coming with, buddy?
Matt: "What?"
Liam: Do you want to go on the tour?
Matt: "Of course!"
Liam: Huh. Can we borrow Trinket for that? Oh, Vex isn't here. I'm sure we could borrow Trinket for the day. You ever ridden a bear, old man?
Matt: (snoring)
Taliesin: We actually have a carpet we were thinking of using for this.
Liam: The bear's funnier, though.
Marisha: Hey, Vax?
Liam: Hello? Oh, I'm right here.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm sitting next to you.
Liam: Are we not actually in the castle right now? Go ahead.
Marisha: There's no ceiling. I think he fell asleep with his eyes opened.
Matt: Which he did. He's staring at you, beginning to snore loudly, and JB's like, "Ogden. Ogden." She flicks him in the side of the head, and he goes (chomps) and takes the spoon that she's holding out with the oatmeal and just--
Travis: I like him.
Liam: I thought I'd get you a bear ride, but I was wrong. I'm sorry.
Matt: "Get me a beer?"
Liam: Yeah. Can we get three beers in here?
Travis: Shit, we don't even need the servants for that. I just pop out the chalice, little morning beer. Sunrise.
Liam: There you go. Three beers for you, Grandpa.
Marisha: You know, I heard a recipe the other day for a beer-mosa. It's like a mimosa, but with beer and orange juice. Would you like a beer-mosa, Ogden?
Matt: "No."
Marisha: Okay. Okay.
Travis: Oh, shit. Oh god.
Matt: And JB's like, "Ogden." She helps him put it back down on the table. "Ah. It's been years since I've had a good drink."
Travis: Years?
Matt: "Yes."
Liam: Oh, shit. Well, we're all gonna die. Have another one.
Matt: And you can see JB's looking kind of nervous. She's like, "Actually, he probably shouldn't." And she takes him and pushes the drink toward Grog. He's like, "I'm a grown boy!"
Travis: He is, he's very grown.
Matt: She seems outnumbered and extremely uncomfortable in the circumstance, as you look over at Johann, who's like, (laughs) "Oh, this is gonna be a fun tour, boy." As he watches as Uncle Ogden lifts the, what by his size is rather large, cup of... beer-- that's the one, it's been a long week. Finishes it in three massive gulps, sets it down.
Liam: Man, I couldn't do that.
Marisha: You know, I'm kind of sad I'm missing this tour with you guys, now.
Travis: Yeah, you fucked up.
Marisha: Yeah. It's gonna be fun.
Liam: The Grand Poobah tour? Yes, you are.
Travis: Gohan, what happens when Uncle Ogden has too much, you know, (drinking sound).
Matt: "I don't know. Honestly, he's been off the wagon for about 20 years, so I'm curious to see."
Liam: Well, this calls for a celebration.
Marisha: What did we do? We're the worst!
Travis: Life begins anew in Whitestone!
Sam: You know, 20 years to a gnome is like five for a human.
Marisha: We are consistently the worst.
Sam: I'm just saying, it could be okay.
Liam: A very wise man once said that life needs things to live, so.
Taliesin: And one of those things it needs is beer.
Laura: He says, as we walk in the room.
Matt: Carrying a magnificent hat in your hand.
Travis: Does Ogden seem to grow younger as he finishes the beer?
Matt: No, he seems to grow the same.
Travis: Okay. Never know. Never know.
Matt: He seems relatively unfazed.
Laura: Grog! We found your tour hat.
Travis: Oh, you did?
Laura: And it's wonderful.
Travis: Oh, great. When do I get to see it?
Laura: It was sitting on a special shelf, labeled 'tour hat shelf'.
Travis: That's lucky.
Laura: Yeah. It really was.
Sam: Is that it? What you have there, Percy, that hat?
Taliesin: Yes, here we are.
Liam: Oh, shit!
Taliesin: Magnificent, isn't it?
Travis: Wow! This is-- it jingles! It jangles! This is an official Whitestone tour hat?
Laura: Yeah!
Taliesin: So that we can definitely find you no matter what.
Travis: Yeah! Now, is there a long history of distinguished tour leaders before me?
Taliesin: You would think that, but honestly, I don't believe that we've ever had an official tour guide before you. You would be starting!
Liam: First Vex, now you!
Laura: Grand Poobah and First Tour Captain of Whitestone!
Liam: All of This and That!
Taliesin: This technically falls under "This and That," doesn't it?
Marisha: Keyleth bows and I take Vax with me by hitting the back of his knees.
Taliesin: It's customary to show respect by jingling the bells.
Matt: As you both bow, and you say this phrase, you watch as Johann and Astra, they bow low as well.
Travis: Yes. Percy, you should tell them the short names for my titles. You know.
Taliesin: I think it's just so much more exciting when you say it.
Travis: What was it, like Silly Bean, and Sweet Chestnut?
Taliesin: Why not?
Travis: Yeah! (laughter)
Taliesin: Grand Poobah of All of This and That
Travis: Please rise, rise! It's going to be a lovely day. We have a lot ahead of us, we do. Please.
Liam: Jeez, that hat is busier than K'Varn's whole fucking--
Laura: I know, right?
Travis: Is it, like, well-balanced?
Matt: No! Not at all!
Travis: I have to hold it?
Matt: No, here's the thing  it was designed for a much smaller head. So, even for you to get it on, it's like squeezing a tiny rubber thimble over your thumb. So it's like (creaking, boop!). It pops up on the very, very tip. So it holds itself, but it only really covers the very, very top of your head.
Travis: I'd be worried about circulation up there, but it's not really a concern.
Matt: You feel like it might fall off, but eventually you find a little strap inside.
Travis: Ooh!
Laura: Hey!
Travis: Fuck you! (laughter)
Liam: Ding, ding-a-ling, doodle-ding!
Travis: I was cool until the strap came in.
Taliesin: Breaking point!
Travis: I hate those fucking straps!
Taliesin: The breaking point is right beneath your chin! Who knew!
Sam: Birthday hat!
Taliesin: Been searching for years!
Matt: And as the strap finds itself solid across your jawline, the gnomes, one by one, line up behind you, looking at you excitedly, Ogden and JB at the rear, and he's like, "What's going on?"
Taliesin: We pull out the carpet, and invite Ogden and JB.
Laura: Please, take a seat!
Liam: Yes, it's no bear, but it's pretty good.
Matt: You see Johann and Astra, arm-in-arm, walk to the side, and as JB takes the arm of Uncle Ogden, walks him forward. He stumbles up in your direction, looks up, and goes, "That's terrible! Where are we going?"
Travis: It is time for the tour of Whitestone!
Matt: "Yay!" (laughter)
Matt: JB pats him and is like, "He's not very good with the volume control."
Travis: Oh, that's okay. I like it when they're loud, actually, I relate.
Taliesin: I understand.
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Which one of you two will be riding the carpet with them?
Liam: Of the Grand Poobah and myself?
Laura: Of you and Percy. Percy's going with you as well, aren't you? Are you? Or are you coming with us?
Liam: The carpet's above my station.
Travis: Yeah, I can't ride; I've developed a tour walk.
Laura: Someone has to ride the carpet with them.
Taliesin: I'll ride the carpet so that you can stay free for, yes. Right.
Marisha: Oh, she's coming with us.
Taliesin: I know, I know.
Marisha: You're on your own.
Taliesin: I'll be fine.
Laura: My darling.
Taliesin: Yes?
Laura: You'll be fine.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Travis: All right, Percy, time to learn about your castle. And I take off in a walk where you don't bend your knees, your legs just stay straight? That's the walk I'm adopting for this whole tour.
Matt: All right.
Travis: I've decided.
Laura: Like, legs going out to the side there?
Travis: No, like you kick your heel forward, like--
Sam: Like a goose-step?
Travis: Like a military.
Sam: Goose-stepping?
Marisha: I don't think you want to do a goose-step.
Travis: No, I'm doing it.
Taliesin: I'm okay with it.
Marisha: You sure?
Taliesin: Let's roll with this.
Marisha: Okay!
Taliesin: I'm totally fucking down. I'm in.
Liam: As we head out, I run over to Keyleth and say, try not to be too jealous! And I give her a smooch and then I chase after the gang.
Marisha: Have fun!
Liam: Oh, I will!
Matt: All right. So the three of you find your way, borrowing the carpet temporarily, you gather the gnomes. So, wait, who-- the weight of all the gnomes, the goliath--
Travis: I'm walking!
Matt: You're walking.
Laura: It's just Percy and the gnomes.
Taliesin: It's just me like, like a gondola driver.
Marisha: Yes, and Grog is like sherpa-ing.
Matt: All right. So.
Liam: My plan is to act casual but to be watching all the gnomes for thieving things.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough. All right. So. As you all leap onto the carpet except for Grog, Grog, you begin taking them around the grounds. You begin through the castle. Where do you want to begin?
Travis: Oh this foyer of Whitestone Castle was defended by myself and these fellows against the onslaught of dragons, giants, and hordes of undead. It has been in the de Rolo family for millennia.
Sam: Millennia? That last word?
Travis: Is that what the word is? Yep. Yep. (laughter)
Travis: And then I take them outside to get some fresh air before I overwhelm them with knowledge.
Matt: (laughs) All right. The carpet glides you guys to the outskirts of the castle. You begin taking them along the grounds, around the perimeter wall, and then through one of the underneath gates to the back garden, which you've recovered, and are now starting to actually grow again. You have like a small hedge maze back there, some rose gardens, and a small pond. You've filled in the exhaust holes that were used for the distillation of the whitestone and the acid pits that were installed by the Briarwoods. Now it is actually a garden once more. And so as this happens, you watch as Astra gets really excited at the edge of the carpet and is like, "Ooh my, look at this place, it's like natural!"
Laura: (laughs) 'It's like natural.'
Travis: Natural beauty, it abounds. It all comes from the Sun Tree in the center of town. (whispers) Percy, help!
Taliesin: The gardens were originally constructed by Melanie de Rolo, who is actually one of more interesting de Rolos of the time. She was of the third generation to be born into this castle--
Matt: (snores) (laughter)
Matt: Uncle Ogden is just staring forward.
Taliesin: Don't know why I bother. Melanie is--
Travis: Asterisk is interested.
Taliesin: -- Melanie was actually fascinating. She was eventually removed from her position for accusations of witchcraft and raising of the undead. There's actually quite a bit of interesting ghost stories if that's your sort of--
Travis: No, no we don't, we don't, nope, no.
Matt: "No, please, that's interesting!" Johann is like, "Ghost stories, you say, huh?"
Taliesin: Oh yes, the strange materials that are mined in this part of the world have given rise to all sorts of stories due to its pale appearance, the fact that under certain types of moonlight it can glow with a strange phosphorescent supernatural glow. There are even tales of people--
Matt: (snores)
Taliesin: -- seeing several of the more notorious de Rolos as spirits wandering about the halls, Melanie just being one of them. But she was very excited by the notion of a garden and actually, originally, many of these paths were--
Matt: Both of the gnomes now turn back to Grog and go, "Anyway, what's next on the tour?"
Taliesin: Thank you. (laughter)
Travis: Enough with, like, the boring shit.
Taliesin: I could keep going.
Travis: Do we have like an armory that we can bring them, where they make weapons?
Sam: Yeah, yeah! Get to the good shit!
Taliesin: Well, actually, why don't we take them to target practice? I'm sure that the Riflemen are probably at least doing a round of target practice. That might be fun to see.
Liam: Do we get to see the Musketeers?
Taliesin: I'm not allowed to call them that anymore.
Liam: Well, I will. Let's go!
Matt: Johann is like, "I like the sound of target practice, that's right up my alley. Take us there, boy!"
Travis: Okay. We now venture along these roads cast through the ages of de Rolo descendants as we make our way to the annals of Firecracker Alley. (laughter)
Taliesin: It's a shooting alley. It's fun, it's got some moving bits, but I'm sure you can understand exactly what it entails.
Matt: They both shake their head. "I have no idea what you're talking about, but let's go!"
Taliesin: This is quite possibly the only one in existence, so this is quite exciting.
Matt: All right. As you guys make your way along the rest of the tour, the rest of you, who are not on this tour, what are you doing?
Laura: We're going to the Sun Tree!
Marisha: We're gonna go find Wilhand!
Ashley: We're gonna go find Wilhand.
Marisha: We're gonna go find Willhand!
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Before I left, did I see Grog in his hat?
Matt: Oh, it was amazing.
Ashley: Grog, you look so distinguished!
Travis: Go on.
Ashley: You look so great in that hat! Where did you get this hat?
Travis: Apparently this is the official tour hat of the house of Whitestone.
Laura: It's the truth!
Travis: And apparently I'm the first.
Laura: Yep, it was made hundreds of years ago, and was just sitting on the shelf waiting for the first official tour guide.
Travis: How it's not covered in dust or decay, I have no idea.
Ashley: Oh, Grog. This is just the perfect job for you.
Travis: Does it fit well? I feel like it's a bit small.
Ashley: You know what? It's just supposed to be a little jaunty like that, I think.
Travis: Oh, it's got a little swagger?
Ashley: Yeah, just a little-- it's great.
Taliesin: Makes you look bigger as well.
Ashley: Yes.
Travis: Yeah, I am pretty tiny these days. I have not been lifting.
Marisha: Is he wearing like a Lolita hat? Is that what's going on?
Travis: Like a maid cafe?
Matt: Kind of, a very oversized one. It's wide-brimmed and floppy and it's got all these ribbons cascading.
Travis: I like the Derby analogy. That's what I was going for.
Marisha: Derby Week is this weekend, I think.
Matt: Timely. There you go, Grog.
Marisha: You look like an old Southern white woman.
Travis: All I aim for in life.
Matt: So Vex, Pike, Keyleth, Taryon. What are you guys doing?
Laura: We're heading to the Sun Tree.
Matt: All right. You make your way to the Sun Tree. It's about ten in the morning, time-wise, by the time you get going, and you see them kind of gliding around the outskirts of the castle, doing their slow traveling tour. As you approach the Sun Tree, where are you going? Heading to Westruun?
Ashley: Let's go see him.
Marisha: Do you know of a tree that's close by his house that we can just be right there?
Ashley: Yeah, I mean, in the backyard we have a pretty large tree.
Marisha: Can I get us to that tree?
Matt: You've seen it before. You've been to the house, you've stayed there, so you know the tree she mentions, yeah.
Marisha: Okay. That tree. Psew!
Matt: All right, as you guys step through the portal created on the outskirts of the Sun Tree, you step through into-- I wouldn't say it's a yard, it's not a big yard, it's more of a small-- what would be used as a storage space behind this building, but you have the two-story red brick building that is your-- and, for a while, Grog's-- home of upbringing. Wilhand is not in the backyard, however, you do see that there is a lot of leftover building materials from the reconstruction of the second story, which sustained damage from the original assault of the Conclave. But looking up at the roof, which last you saw was amid disarray, looks like it's been reconstructed and completed, and the home is once again whole.
Ashley: Well, this is nice to see. It's put together again. Well. Shall we?
Laura: Find out about that curse.
Ashley: (exhales) Okay.
Matt: You knock on the door. There's a slight pause. A little voice inside goes, "Eh? Who is it?"
Ashley: Oh, Wilhand, it's Pike!
Matt: "In the yard?"
Ashley: Yeah. Yeah, we-- I just went around. (laughter)
Ashley: Just went around.
Marisha: The gate was open, the side gate.
Ashley: The gate was open.
Sam: The dog run?
Ashley: And the dog run. Just went around the dog run.
Marisha: No, the back door, the back door!
Matt: Another moment passes before the back door opens, which leads into the small kitchen. It's a humble home, but as it opens up, Wilhand is there, looking as liver-spotted and grinning as he was last you saw him. His balding top of his head and the crazed white mane of hair behind has gotten even longer and unkempt as he's now on his own and doesn't have anyone to really groom him. So he's going a little wild-gnome right now. You see his face light up immediately as soon as he sees your expression. "Oh, Pike! Pike, it's so good--"
Ashley: Oh, oh, oh, I'm sorry, I'm very strong.
Matt: "I noticed. Well, friends."
Laura: Good to see you again!
Matt: "Dex'avlia?"
Laura: That's right.
Matt: "And that's Keyfen?"
Marisha: Got it.
Matt: "And?"
Sam: Taryon Darrington. In Gnome, I say, it's a pleasure to make your a-taint-ance. (laughter)
Matt: His eyes go wide. "Ah. I almost heard that. Well, come in, come in." He turns around and muscles his way inside. You've never quite been in a gnome home before.
Sam: You grew up here?
Ashley: For the most part. For the most part.
Sam: And you seem okay.
Ashley: (laughs) Yes. I'm okay. And Grog did a little bit as well.
Sam: That's hard to believe.
Ashley: Well, he-- we made it work, you know? He slept outside a lot.
Laura: He was smaller then, too, right?
Ashley: He was smaller then. He was smaller then. He, you know.
Marisha: I loved sleeping outside, though. Did you guys have like a tree canopy thing?
Ashley: Sometimes we would make forts.
Marisha: That's good living, Taryon.
Sam: That sounds fun, sleeping outside when you have a perfectly good home to sleep in.
Ashley: Well, it's-- I'm an outdoorsy type.
Sam: All right.
Ashley: People have different preferences, and that's one.
Marisha: It's very freeing.
Sam: I'll have to try it sometime.
Ashley: We'll try it sometime. I think you'll like it.
Matt: As you guys are having this conversation, you watch as Wilhand is rushing around the kitchen, frantically trying to make tea. He's like, "I wasn't expecting guests, my apologies! Hold on!" He's like, one hand he's filling this tea kettle, and the other hand's trying to find some flint, and he's like--
Marisha: I light it up with my flame hands.
Matt: "I did it!" (laughter)
Matt: Sets it down. "Okay." He goes and sets the kettle onto the flame. "Don't touch. It burns. Anyway. I'm so glad you could make it. It's so good to see you, Pike!"
Ashley: It's so good to see you. Sit and relax, I know where everything is, you don't have to-- I'll get tea ready for everybody. Just sit and relax.
Matt: "Okay." And he sits down at the table.
Laura: As she gets up, can I just kind of whisper, 'cause he can't hear very well. Wilhand? Can you hear what I'm saying right now? Okay. Is it going to be all right, bringing this up around him?
Ashley: Sure.
Laura: Sore subject? Maybe.
Ashley: I'm not sure. Bring it up very, very lightly.
Laura: I'll let you do it.
Ashley: Okay. Okay. Wilhand.
Matt: "Yes?"
Ashley: First of all, I wanted to come see you 'cause it's been some time, and I'm so glad that the house has come along so nicely.
Matt: "It has. There's been some fantastic volunteers who've come by. They've rebuilt a lot of the city."
Ashley: That's fantastic. Oh, I know what we were gonna ask you.
Matt: "Yes?"
Ashley: Oh, wait. No, we knew Fassbender was gone. Never mind.
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: Oh, but what did the man look like who came and grabbed the big robot?
Travis: (whispers) The guy that owned him.
Laura: I know, I just want to make sure it was him. Your big mustachioed metal man.
Matt: "Oh, yes. The broad stone one."
Laura: Yeah, that's the one.
Matt: "Ah. He was retrieved by his actual legal owner, of which I was notified of. I don't know how you procured it off of him. Older gentleman. Standard human fare. Taller than me."
Laura: Was he kind of a dick?
Matt: "Kind of a what?"
Marisha: A penis!
Travis: Wow. (laughter)
Travis: Jesus.
Matt: You watch as his head turns in a confused way. He goes, "Um." And he puts his finger in his ear and clears it out and goes, "I'm sorry, what?"
Ashley: Like not a very nice person?
Matt: "Oh, yes, he was--"
Ashley: Rude.
Matt: "-- a bit... he was not the kindest or most forthcoming of guests, but he seemed to be a busy man of much esteem and left before I could finish making his tea."
Laura: I hope he wasn't very mean to you.
Matt: "No, no, not mean at all, just extremely forceful." (laughter)
Ashley: Well, we came-- well, first, I wanted you to meet Taryon, our new friend.
Matt: "Oh! What's your name?"
Sam: Taryon Darrington.
Matt: "Taryon. Pleasure to meet you."
Sam: Yes, it's a pleasure to make your a-cunt-ance. A-cunt-ance.
Laura: Wow. Wow.
Matt: He leans over and goes, "You're making interesting friends these days, Pike."
Ashley: Well, okay, I'm just gonna--
Matt: "Sarenrae was very specific about making sure that you avoid the bad folk, and you're currently dealing with what looks to be some ruffians using some naughty language."
Marisha: Is 'penis' a bad word?
Laura: Just don't say that word again, Keyleth. I mean, it's not.
Ashley: You know, I just feel like I like to be surrounded by all types, to sort of, you know, get to know--
Matt: (laughs) "Just messing with you."
Ashley: Oh. I thought you got--
Matt: "What, you think I didn't get drunk and say the off thing here and there? Back in my day, I was a bit of a rabble-rouser, whether you believe it or not. Mm-hm."
Ashley: You were. (laughter)
Ashley: Well, I might as well just come out with it. I'm stalling. So we had some visitors in Whitestone, where we're staying right now-- I'm just really nervous. It was Johann and Ogden and JB.
Matt: "Hm."
Ashley: They came to visit, 'cause I had sent them a little money and a letter.
Matt: "Well, that's very kind of you."
Ashley: And they came to town to stay and to just see the town, and they told me something a little disturbing. Ogden said he's been having visions and dreams about something about a blood curse. Does this sound familiar to you at all?
Matt: "To be perfectly up-front, I kind of escaped the Trickfoot lifestyle when I was maybe about your age. So I'm not as keen on all the familial history, but I can say that there's been more than one curse thrown at our family name."
Ashley: This is true.
Matt: "I don't know. I haven't spoken with them in quite some time, or really anybody else. I decided that you, there was something special about you, and it wasn't right to have you grow up in such an uncouth environment, so I wanted to provide something different for you. I don't know if I succeeded, but I did my best, and brought you into the light of the one that saved me. And look at you now!" And he leans forward and grabs your holy symbol from the front and goes, "Why, you're the brightest star she has."
Laura: I'm gonna be terrible. Can I insight check him? I just want to see if it looks like he's hiding anything.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Laura: (high-pitched) I'm sorry, Wilhand.
Ashley: It's okay.
Sam: He's an old man. He doesn't lie.
Laura: 14?
Matt: 14? He's hard to read in the sense that he's lived long enough and seen enough things in his time that he's open, but he keeps his history guarded, by nature. He seems genuine, but at the same time, you're not getting the whole picture, because he's not revealing the whole picture. He also spends a lot of time alone, too, so by nature he's a little hermited. So that's as much as you can make out.
Laura: Wilhand, how old were you when you left the Trickfoot family?
Matt: "Oh, I would've been maybe in my early 40s."
Laura: Oh. (whispers) How old are you?
Ashley: Early 40s.
Laura: Okay. Okay. So he was around for a while. Okay. Did you know Theobold?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: And so do you know what happened to him?
Matt: "In what way?"
Laura: Well, Ogden said he was affected by the curse, that he was killed by it.
Matt: "I wasn't around for that."
Marisha: Insight check.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Marisha: 24. No. Hang on, wait wait wait. I keep forgetting my insight went up.
Sam: Well. It seems to have worked.
Marisha: 26.
Liam: Oh, he turned around. (laughter)
Sam: Whispers. We have nothing to sell.
Laura: Yes we do! We have these shirts that are still in the store.
Sam: Oh! Those shirts there?
Travis: Been out for a week.
Ashley: You can even fold up the sleeves to make them super fashionable.
Laura: They're super cool!
Liam: And soft like the hoodie.
Travis: Show 'em the dice on the back
Laura: (squeaky) There's a Critical Role logo on the back. (laughter)
Travis: That's the house voice. When we go home, it's all that.
Sam: Really? That's how she talks at home? Oh, boy.
Travis: Yeah. That's what we call the Bailey switch. Got home and it was like, fuck.
Matt: "I'm sorry. I just, I don't deal with them much these days. They wander, they-- I'm just an old gnome trying to live his twilight years in peace and the joy of the Everlight."
Ashley: So, I don't mean to press you on this, Wilhand, but did you know how he died? I mean, even if you weren't there, did you hear about it?
Matt: "I know that he had passed and I heard it was around mysterious circumstances, but like many Trickfoots before me and many after, they tend to die under mysterious circumstances. It's kind of the life they lead."
Marisha: Wilhand, if you don't mind me asking.
Matt: "There we are, yes?"
Marisha: I know you mentioned to Pike before about a blood curse. Do you actually believe in the curse or do you believe that it's because of the life the Trickfoots lead? I know you've worked hard to get away from them.
Matt: "I don't know. I haven't delved too deep into the history of the family. That's more Ogden's fare. I just wanted to leave it all behind me. For the most part, I don't even tell people I'm a Trickfoot. They just know me as old Wilhand. Don't want to live under the stigma. Sorry, I wish I could be of more help."
Ashley: I'm struggling a bit.
Matt: "What bothers you, child?"
Ashley: I feel like you've told me so much about the family, and when they came to town I feel-- I almost feel bad about the way that I treated them. And I feel like they're just, if anything, they're just odd. I'm odd and you're odd and that's just the way Trickfoots are.
Matt: "That's the way family is. Those closest to you are usually the most odd."
Laura: It's very true.
Matt: "There've been very upstanding people in our family in the past, and there've been some downright scoundrels. We're as varied as any other folk in Exandria. It just so happens that some of the scoundrels had a higher profile in the past and set us on a path of expectation. Besides, for gnomes outside of Kraghammer, it's hard to make a living outside of farming or courier services and other menial tasks. Tinkering seems to be already a very cluttered business. So how else are they going to make their means, I suppose, than pilfering here and there? I don't blame them for that. I just don't want to live it and didn't wish for you to live it either."
Ashley: Well, I thank you for that. I couldn't imagine my life any different.
Matt: "I just hope it was enough-- you and the mountain man."
Ashley: Well, he's my protector for sure.
Matt: "Good. I was hoping he would be. He was my protector at one time, as well."
Laura: It might be a small comfort to know that Pike's doing a wonderful job of changing the Trickfoot name.
Matt: "Really?"
Laura: She's a hero of the land. Trickfoot is known as hero, now.
Matt: "Hero? What did you do?"
Ashley: Well. I mean, I didn't do it, we all did, but we killed lots of dragons, and, you know, we've done some pretty cool things.
Laura: She's saved a lot of people.
Marisha: Plus she single-handedly helped lead the rebuilding of a Sarenrae temple in Vasselheim.
Matt: "Way over in Vasselheim?"
Ashley: I've traveled very far.
Matt: "You've made the Lady of the Everlight very proud of you, then." (laughs)
Sam: She also owns a bakery. Co-owns a bakery. With the rest of us. And she is one of the finest bakers we have.
Laura: It's true. It's true.
Matt: "Where did you learn to bake?"
Ashley: It just-- I think-- (laughs) I don't know. I think over, you know, this past year-- (laughter)
Ashley: We would drink a lot, and we would just be in the kitchen sometimes without anything to do, us girls and Taryon, just throwing some shit in a bowl and seeing what we could make.
Sam: The best bakers make it up as they go.
Matt: "You're all very lucky."
Laura: It's not a very precise sort of thing, it's funny, mix things together and then it just turns out.
Sam: We don't even have measuring cups, we just kinda pour it all in and shake it up and see what comes out.
Matt: "That sounds amazing."
Ashley: Here, here, I have-- it's only half 'cause I ate half of it in our journey through the tree. (laughter)
Sam: It literally took five minutes to get here.
Ashley: But it's half of a blondie that was made yesterday.
Matt: "Did you make this?"
Ashley: Well, no, I mean, he was making them, but it's our recipe.
Sam: I made it off of a recipe that she had cultivated, and it's quite-- you'll taste--
Ashley: I go and get some tea, make the rest of the tea for everybody.
Matt: "Oh, the tea!"
Ashley: I got it, I got it. Sit, sit, enjoy. Here, here.
Laura: Oh, thank you.
Matt: "It's a bit stale. Mm."
Laura: Imagine if it was fresh.
Matt: "You're a very good cleric."
Ashley: You know, I know, thank you for your honesty, they're great when they're fresh.
Matt: "I'll finish this later."
Ashley: I'll bring you a profiterolo, 'cause that you will love.
Matt: "I've gotta cut down, you know, the diabetes." (laughter)
Matt: "But thank you, I greatly appreciate the offer. A bakery? Wow!"
Travis: The old gnome diabetes!
Ashley: I could maybe try and heal you of that. Well, just one more thing. So Ogden, in his visions that he's been having, and he told this to Vex, that he saw visions of me dying, basically, by a shadowy--
Laura: Shadowy being with eyes like burning coal.
Matt: "Well, you'd best be avoiding anything with eyes like coals."
Laura: Right.
Matt: "Dreams are dreams. Visions are different. Now, was it a dream he had, or was it a vision?"
Laura: It's a recurring dream, very constant, and it has him very worried, if he's telling the truth.
Matt: "Do you know if Ogden has found faith?"
Ashley: I didn't ask him.
Matt: "Well. I can't say. Some given the calling, they don't know why that is given. I'd like to think that even the most dastardly of characters can be redeemed. My memory of their family is a dark one, but who am I to judge, as I have not engaged with their path for hundreds of years now? Maybe you should ask him."
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Why do you think Ogden is dastardly? What did he do?
Matt: "I don't know him that well, I left before we got to become friends."
Marisha: Just going off what you said.
Matt: "Just meaning the Trickfoots in general."
Ashley: So would it be-- (laughs) Would it be different if he had these dreams or visions if he was a follower of Sarenrae or has found faith of some sort?
Matt: "Well, those are the only visions I've received, and they've kept you safe this long, yes? It's the only life I know. I can't speak for him, but that would put me at ease. But I also don't understand all this--" He glances over at Taryon's dragonhide armor and the giant metallic man behind him with glowing runes on his body that's writing this all down, and goes, "You know. Them. Arcane stuff."
Ashley: It's, you know, to each his own. (laughter)
Matt: "Tea?"
Laura: Sure.
Matt: All right. You guys stay for a bit and have some tea with him and catch up, and let him know more of the adventures that you've had since last you checked up on him in Westruun. Anything else you guys want to work out here in Westruun with Wilhand?
Sam: I'll just ask him, is there any message you wish to send to Ogden or the rest of the Trickfoots?
Matt: "I would tell them that if they have a penchant for sweets, they should curb that a bit. Apparently there's a family history of diabetes." (laughter)
Sam: All right.
Matt: "Just a word of advice I'm throwing out there for their own well-being."
Sam: Okay. Family history, got it.
Matt: "Yeah."
Sam: All right.
Matt: "And don't be penises."
Sam: Very good.
Marisha: Wise words.
Matt: "See? Told you." (laughs)
Laura: Wilhand? Should you remember anything about this curse that we've asked you about, please send word? We want to protect Pike as much as we can.
Matt: "I understand. I'll look into some books. If I hear anything, I'll send word."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: "Of course."
Ashley: I'm sure it's nothing, but in case you remember anything.
Matt: "I will be happy to do so."
Ashley: Okay. I'll just take the rest of it. I'll probably have it on the way home.
Matt: "Are you sure? I don't mind, it was delicious."
Ashley: No, no.
Laura: We'll send some your way that are fresh, I swear they're very good.
Ashley: They're very good, I promise.
Matt: "All right."
Sam: In Gnome, I say, it has been lovely making your acquaint-anus. (laughter)
Matt: He responds with, "And you're getting better, but perhaps some practice, in time."
Sam: I'll keep working on it.
Matt: "Until then, avoid anyone of any sort of gnomish nobility for a while. That's my recommendation," he says to you in Gnome.
Ashley: We're working on it. (laughter)
Marisha: Pike, is there anything you need from here before we leave?
Ashley: I don't think so. Real quick.
Matt: "Yes?"
Ashley: I get up and I stand behind him and comb his hair out.
Matt: "It's been a while since somebody's done that for me. Thank you."
Ashley: It looks so great, just all natural, out, ready for the world, but I wanted to make you just look a little bit more coiffed.
Matt: "Thank you. It's a bit unbridled, I would like perhaps to... the word escapes me." And he takes another sip of his tea, thinks for a second, goes, "I wish to be less crazy-looking."
Ashley: Well, can I just say, I think you look perfect.
Matt: And he reaches up and pinches the edge of your cheek and goes, "Well, can I just say that I never thought blue would be your color, but it looks fantastic."
Ashley: It hasn't washed out yet, but it's fun for a little bit, just to try something.
Matt: "Just to try something. Ah, I remember those days. Anyway. Don't be a stranger."
Ashley: Okay. It was wonderful to see you.
Matt: "Wonderful to see you as well. And please, do send me some fresher treats."
Laura: I will.
Matt: "Thank you."
Laura: Thank you for your hospitality.
Matt: "Of course. Thank you for coming. And a pleasure to meet you, uh--"
Sam: Taryon Darrington.
Matt: "Taryon Darrington. Pleasure to meet you, yes."
Sam: Not a firm handshake at all.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: All right, you guys make your way back to Whitestone?
Ashley: What's that?
Matt: You guys make your way back to Whitestone?
Laura: I guess so, yeah.
Ashley: Shoot.
Matt: You guys return.
Ashley: Finish the rest of the blondie through the fshoom.
Matt: Just (chomps) as you step through.
Taliesin: Stale blondie.
Marisha: Stale blondie.
Matt: As you guys return, stepping back into the main thoroughfare of Whitestone, you gather, over this time, the rest of your friends have done a relatively decent-- they're like three quarters of the way through their tour of Whitestone. It's very basic, they're not going through every single detail, but they're going in various sections, and Ogden has been asleep pretty much the entire time. JB, Johann, and Astra have been eager, for the most part, asking questions, and some of the time, when you're not looking, kind of flicking the back of the hat. But you've come around now, you're heading back up north after coming from the graveyard, and both the Pelor church and the Raven Queen shrine that have been built there, and you've made your way back northward into the city proper.
Liam: We said we were gonna do Firecracker Alley. See the Musketeers. Can we do that? I really want to do that.
Taliesin: I'm not allowed to say that word out loud.
Liam: Well, I'll hush up around your sister, but it's just us right now.
Travis: Yeah, either that or it's like a pub crawl through Whitestone, one or the other.
Taliesin: I think they may be drunk enough. Let's go see the--
Matt: Okay. Is there any specific individual that you've set as the captain of the Riflemen of Whitestone?
Taliesin: Your boy. What's his name?
Liam: Kynan.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: (gasps) What?
Matt: All right, so. As you guys approach, making your way towards the northern barracks of the city, you hear a cluster of small, controlled explosions, at which point the gnomes all kind of shudder for a second. In that moment, Ogden goes, (incoherent yelling) "We're under attack!"
Travis: It's all right, it's all right, it's all part of the tour. No, it's all right. Oh man. It's okay. This is Firecracker Alley.
Matt: "Okay."
Travis: All right.
Matt: "All right."
Travis: These my people.
Matt: JB wipes the drool from his mouth. As you guys approach, you see there's a line of ten men and women in armor with rifles; they're currently in the process of reloading them, and there you see at the edge is a leather-clad Kynan, who is in the process of instructing loudly the reloading process, the use of black powder, and the preparation for the rifles for a secondary shot. As they all prepare, he goes, "All right. And aim!" Arm up in the air. They all (clatter) up in front. "Fire!" (gunshot) They all go off again, these big plumes of smoke shoot out from the front. You watch as across the way there are a dozen or so hay targets with what looks like cloth and some figures drawn on them that have a number of holes blown through them in multiple places. The shots don't have extremely good aim.
Liam: How many rifles are we looking at, here?
Matt: You're looking at ten different people with rifles.
Liam: Queen's Grace, that's a lot of guns, Percy.
Matt: As you guys approach, gently, as they're preparing for the next shot, you see Kynan bring up his arm and look over and see the rest of you, and immediately changes his posture. He was already in a formal leader position, but as soon as you approach, it's almost like, oh, the boss is here to watch. And he kind of (inhales). "Hold. We have company."
Taliesin: At ease, at ease.
Matt: Turns around and jogs up to the edge of the perimeter of this training ground. And he goes, "Hello. By what pleasure do we have you--?"
Taliesin: We are giving a very rare tour of the grounds and we thought that, these being Trickfoots, as in the family of Trickfoots--
Matt: "Oh. Oh!"
Taliesin: -- we would show them one of the things that makes this castle so special, and one of the things that makes this castle so special is you and your company.
Matt: "Well, it is an honor to have the Trickfoots among us. I am Captain Kynan Leore. I am the, as to recently assigned, captain of the Riflemen of Whitestone." And you see him go from-- his whole, structured presentation begins to quickly fade as the nerves kick in. You can see his voice get a little quivery and his posture begin to fall a little bit. "These are my Riflemen... and women! It's called Riflemen, but it's men and women. It's a formality."
Liam: Kynan--
Matt: "It can be changed, it can be changed."
Liam: Hey.
Laura: Riflepeople.
Liam: Hey, it's been months. You're looking on point.
Matt: "Well, we're trying. They're very, very good people. Aren't they? Yes?" And they all don't know how to answer and look at each other and look at him and--
Taliesin: At ease. This man in command of you all is one of the few people who could actually do a little damage to us in our time. He has great respect.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: He puts his eyes down, slightly sheepishly and guiltily as you say that, but--
Liam: That's old history. How are you getting on?
Matt: "Very well. Very well. I mean, very few get a second chance. I just don't want to mess this up."
Liam: Are you being of use?
Matt: Looks to Percival.
Taliesin: Very much so. I could not think of anyone better for this particular occupation. I am nothing but prideful.
Liam: Well, that's enough.
Matt: "Then yes, I have been of use."
Liam: (whispers) How's Simon?
Matt: "Oh!" He looks over at the rest of the folk and goes, "At ease! Go get some food." The men break and make their way walking out--
Laura: And women. Because there's men and women.
Liam: Sometimes I sound like my sister. I'm sorry. I just like equality for all.
Matt: But he leans in and says, "Simon is doing well." And he pulls up the front of his armor a little bit and you can see the snake belt itself is still on him.
Liam: (whispers) Can I say hello?
Matt: "I mean--" Glances over at the men not watching-- and women.
Taliesin: I'm showing off some trick shots to the Trickfoots while we're--
Matt: Okay, so as you're doing a whole Buffalo Bill-- (laughter)
Matt: I should say, Wild Bill. Buffalo Bill is a whole different thing. Buffalo Bill's a very different thing. (laughter)
Matt: I need to specify.
Taliesin: That's a very different show.
Matt: Yeah, no. It's a whole different pit in Whitestone to go to. He goes ahead and does a little whistle, and suddenly the belt turns into a snake and winds its way up the forearm and (hisses).
Liam: Oh, fuck! Buddy! Can I hold him for a minute?
Matt: "Yeah! Well, he's still yours."
Liam: Ah.
Matt: The snake leaps to your arm and coils around.
Liam: Hey! Hey! You are bigger. What is he feeding you? What are you feeding him?
Laura: "Belt!"
Matt: "Well, nothing. It's a--"
Liam: Well, I fed him. I mean, you don't have to, I guess.
Matt: "I can! I can feed him. I just didn't think-- It's a belt! I don't know-- I'll feed him."
Liam: When was the last time this belt was a snake, before now?
Matt: "When you give it to me. I haven't had to use it! And then should I let it out? I don't know. I don't know how these things work, okay?"
Marisha: Not everyone can be a dope adventurer, all right?
Liam: I'm conflicted here. I did give this to you--
Matt: "Right. You gave me a belt. And I've used it, and it's been great."
Liam: Can I insight check Simon to see how he's feeling?
Matt: Sure! With your extensive knowledge of magical snake belts, let's see how well this goes.
Liam: Hey, this is all bullshit, man.
Matt: I know. I love it!
Liam: That's insight?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: No, I'm gonna use wisdom. Excuse me, I'm going to use Luck. Oh, that's much better.
Travis: Luck.
Matt: Blow that Luck, baby!
Liam: That's 18.
Matt: 18. Yeah. He seems fine. As a magical snake, it can transform back and forth. It doesn't appear to require food or water when it's in its belt form. It wouldn't necessarily be conscious of the time in between. So as far as Simon's concerned, it's been a very short period of time.
Liam: Kynan.
Matt: "Yes, Vax?"
Liam: You are happy here-- happier here?
Matt: "Very."
Liam: I'm very glad for that. You seem happy. And everybody deserves a second chance. And I guess what I'm asking is: can I have my snake back?
Matt: "Of course. Yes! Here, I mean he was-- I was just borrowing it for a while."
Liam: Okay. I feel silly. I mean, I gave it to you a year ago or so, but, I don't know, I missed him. I think I missed him.
Matt: "Okay. Yeah."
Taliesin: I'm so glad I can't hear any of this.
Matt: As he looks over at Percy doing all these trick shots in the air and throwing things up and, like, showing the spinning. And the gnomes are like, "Whoa! Whoa! Whoa!"
Travis: As you can see, Firecracker Alley was constructed after the revolt of the Haybales of 1874... 39.
Liam: I let Simon crawl down and form a belt.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And I give Kynan just a gentle little clap on the cheek and say, I'm glad you're fitting in.
Matt: "Me too. And thank you. Sorry about not feeding your snake. I didn't--" (laughter)
Liam: I think you're well on your way to being that hero you dreamed of when you were younger.
Matt: "Well, thank you, I was-- " (gun noise) And his rifle goes off like in the ground next to him.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: A big plume of dirt next to him, and he goes, "Uh--"
Liam: Happens to the best of us. You got all your toes?
Matt: "Men!" And he goes running off toward the rest of his Riflemen. Yeah, you shook him a little bit.
Liam: All right.
Travis: So how do you feel your tour has gone so far? Are you feeling educated, enthused?
Matt: "All of that! All of it, honestly." Johann at this point is still enthralled and goes, "Where does one procure such a weapon?"
Taliesin: One does not, sadly.
Matt: "Okay."
Taliesin: They're very rare outside of this castle, and traditionally when they're found outside of this castle, they're collected and the owner is often killed.
Matt: "Good to know! Good to know, Astra." And Astra goes, "What?! I think it's sexy." And Johann's like, "If you have one lying around you don't need, just let me-- "
Taliesin: I will let you know.
Matt: "Okay."
Travis: Hey Percy, I feel like we should end with, like, a big bang. Like, you know, like, the goods of Whitestone.
Sam: The old apple-in-the-hand?
Liam: (whispers) Do you think Grog and I could shoot a gun?
Taliesin: Yes, I think that's a great idea.
Liam: Yeah? Grog, we're gonna shoot guns!
Travis: Really?
Liam: Yeah!
Liam: He just said, he gave permission!
Taliesin: I will say yes to this. Not one of my guns, but thankfully we have a couple of the ones that are a little wonky.
Matt: The standard rifles. You do have those, yeah.
Liam: But I, like, I don't know. I throw things. Can you show me how it works?
Taliesin: Kind of, yes.
Liam: All right.
Taliesin: It'll be fun.
Liam: (shouts) Gun, please!
Matt: Eventually you guys are outfitted with two rifles. They're not loaded yet. You can show them how to load it.
Taliesin: I'm showing them through the basics of loading the powder. I do this very quickly, so I know it's very difficult to see.
Liam: You're fast.
Taliesin: Very fast, yes. I load it for them.
Matt: All right. You load it for each of them?
Taliesin: One at a time.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Because this could go poorly.
Travis: We're not loading it ourselves?
Taliesin: You're welcome to try.
Travis: I am a self-made man. I would like to try.
Liam: I will let Percy load my gun.
Matt: Okay, so Percy loads your gun. Grog, make an intelligence check.
Taliesin: I give him an ample amount of powder.
Travis: That's gonna be negative something-- (laughter)
Travis: 12!
Matt: Okay. All right. You give him an ample amount of powder, and he uses it. He uses it the right way. It's a lot of it. But I mean, overall, he got the gist of it, and he's-- (laughs)
Taliesin: This is going to be funny.
Matt: Yeah. Both rifles locked in. The iron balls properly packed into the rifle. You both take aim. I would like you both to roll an attack roll using your dexterity modifier. You're not proficient, so it's just a d20 plus your dexterity modifier. Grog, you have disadvantage on this one.
Travis: Not going to need it.
Liam: Plus dex modifier?
Travis: Seven.
Matt: What did you roll?
Travis: Five plus two.
Matt: Okay, so it wasn't a misfire, at the very least.
Liam: 17.
Matt: Okay. You pull it up, Vax, aim and (gunshot). You watch as the top of one of the hay targets explodes off. You managed to make a hit. It's a little off, but you managed to at least make contact.
Taliesin: Very solid.
Laura: Did his feet come off the ground?
Matt: No, but it does come up and you have to catch yourself.
Taliesin: There's a bit of kick to these. You feel it in the shoulder.
Laura: So there.
Matt: Grog does not move at all when it fires. (explosion noise) When you do fire, nothing reacts. None of the hay reacts, and there's a pause, and about 300 feet back, you watch as a small tree goes (cracking, heavy impact).
Travis: Was that the Sun Tree?
Taliesin: Maybe.
Travis: I'm so sorry.
Taliesin: It's all right.
Travis: I could go stick it up and cover it with tape and stuff.
Taliesin: I think that's a great idea.
Travis: Okay. I take off running. (laughter)
Liam: Vax, who was really giddy a minute ago, takes the rifle and hands it to you. These are dangerous.
Taliesin: Extremely.
Liam: There shouldn't be too many of these.
Taliesin: There should not, which is why if we find them outside this castle, it's taken care of, one way or another.
Liam: Fuck.
Taliesin: I'm going to do a quick load shot just to air it out a bit.
Matt: Okay. You do, and it's a really rapid reload. We're talking Schwarzenegger T-2. Spin the shotgun one-handed. (gunshot)
Travis: I'm a hundred yards away. Shouldn't he have to roll to see if he shoots me?
Matt: Are you shooting at Grog?
Taliesin: No. (laughter)
Taliesin: The rifle doesn't have a super long range, either. It's more of a stopping power weapon.
Matt: Go ahead and roll, with proficiency and your dex modiifer.
Liam: You don't shoot with your gun, you shoot with your heart.
Taliesin: Yeah, this is 25.
Matt: The same target, Vax, the impact of the head you hit, you watch as the entire upper part of its torso and head (explosion noise) explode into a spray of slightly seared and slightly burning hay.
Taliesin: I will never, ever outlive the shame I feel for inventing these. I put it back down. Walk away.
Travis: From 300 yards away, I yell, (muffled) it is not the Sun Tree! (laughter)
Matt: As he runs back, you can see as Johann's like, "Is there any chance that we could shoot one?"
Taliesin: You know what? I'm going to say yes.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: You see Astra's (squeals).
Taliesin: One at a time.
Matt: They both look at each other and they both jump off the carpet.
Taliesin: You'll have to be very careful. It's very dangerous. Not just for what you're shooting at--
Matt: They're not even listening. They're both picking up the two rifles.
Taliesin: They're both empty.
Matt: They pick them up and are looking at it and holding it upward and aiming it sideways. They don't really know how to do it.
Taliesin: I'm going to go a little Luciferian here.
Liam: I'm back in security guard mode.
Matt: Do you help them load it?
Taliesin: I'm going to load one at a time. I'm going to mis-load; I'm going to let the powder roll so it creates a flashpan. It's going to be a big, ugly, loud mess. It's not going to fire a shot. It's just going to be a big, ugly mess.
Marisha: You're making a blank?
Taliesin: I'm making a blank. I'm making a blank with a powder pop. It's going to be a little singe-y.
Matt: All right, so for the purposes of this... okay. No terrible misfire. The first shot is Johann because he pushes Astra back and is like, "Let the men do this first." Takes the rifle from you. Picks it up and aims it at a weird angle. "And I just pull right here on the thing? Right over here?" (explosion) Before he finishes, it goes off. It goes flying from his hand, and he stands there for a second with his hands open, and as he turns back towards you, you can see there's a little bit of singe on his eyebrows. The burst of the smoke and the flash seared the front of his face ever so slightly. He turns to you and goes, "That was amazing. Did I hit it?"
Taliesin: You hit something. Well done.
Matt: "I hit it! You're up, lady." Astra's like, "Oh!" and she runs up. Takes the gun. Same thing?
Taliesin: You know, just because I'm curious, I'm going to give her a normal shot.
Matt: Okay, so you load it properly. She takes it and aims at one of the other targets. (gunshot) She manages to hold onto it; this one doesn't blast out of her hand. You don't see any point of impact.
Taliesin: Good form.
Matt: She's like, "Ow!" and she releases her hand because of the heat of the barrel.
Taliesin: That, as well.
Matt: She puts it on the ground and goes, "That was fun. I'm good."
Taliesin: I figured.
Travis: (panting) I heard shots. What's the problem?
Matt: Grog, you look down and notice that there's a little bit of bleeding from your knee, and there's a small bullet hole that you didn't notice as you were running back.
Taliesin: The Sun Tree was angry. It may have taken revenge.
Travis: (whines, groans)
Matt: It only went in an inch. It wasn't that hard of an impact.
Travis: Mine. (laughter)
Matt: Eventually, as you guys are heading back now, after the rest of your tour, you meet up with the rest of the party. As you guys finish the tour--
Liam: A minor thing. As we're walking back, I sidle up next to Percy and I don't say anything. I just do that friend thing where you just go-- and I keep walking.
Matt: Vax bumps you.
Travis: Do we want to show them the sphere?
Taliesin: No, I think that we've had enough for the evening.
Travis: Really? That's the craziest thing in this town.
Taliesin: No, I have to fill out so much paperwork for that one. We'll do it next time.
Travis: Oh. You know, I do know how to write a few letters now.
Taliesin: If you would like to try and fill out the paperwork...
Travis: Well, let's not get carried away.
Taliesin: All right, then. I certainly am not up to it, so I completely understand if you're not.
Travis: Fine.
Matt: All right. You guys catch up with the rest of the party, and you all make your way to the castle at about the same time.
Taliesin: Just checking. None of the gnomes had even the slightest tinge of reaction when he said that? Or no.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: Other than when I was shooting the gun, I've been watching them like a hawk, as well.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: Okay. Vax?
Liam: 29.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Even a twitch?
Matt: No reaction. No twitch. They have no idea what you were talking about, and they have not stolen anything. You've been keeping a close eye.
Sam: Except your heart.
Travis: Ain't that the truth.
Matt: As you guys all reconvene for a mid-afternoon lunch at the castle, everyone's made their way in. The meal's been placed. Less pastry-heavy than the breakfast that Johann originally ordered, but there are meats and breads, and it's actually pretty hearty for a midday lunch, and they keep bringing more in. You get the sense that the Trickfoots don't eat like royals often, and they're definitely making the best they can of the situation. You see JB eating her meal and helping Ogden as you guys settle in. What do you want to do?
Laura: What the fuck should we do?
Taliesin: Perhaps it's time to have a difficult conversation.
Ashley: I think so. I'd like to talk to Ogden again.
Matt: Okay. He's currently at the table, and he's tracing his finger on the side, while occasionally, JB goes, "Uncle?" and taps him. "Oh. Right." She goes and takes a piece of bread and soaks it in the soup for a second and puts it in his mouth. He chews on it for a bit, and as you walk over, he pushes JB's hand out of the way and goes, "Oh, young Pike. Hello."
Ashley: Hello. Did you have a good time today?
Matt: "I did. I haven't had a rest like that in a long time."
Ashley: Well, that's good.
Matt: "Your city gets very loud."
Ashley: It gets pretty loud here. It's true. I take it you went to Firecracker Alley?
Matt: "That's the one."
Ashley: Yeah, it's real loud.
Matt: JB peeks over Ogden's shoulder, listening in. "It was quite nice, actually. We got to watch them fire these--" "Anyway!" Ogden pushes in, not even paying attention to her. "It's so good to see you."
Ashley: Will you take a walk with me?
Matt: "But of course." He takes his stick and stands up. JB's like, "Oh. Where would you like to go?"
Ashley: Well... I just would love to spend some time with you alone, Uncle Ogden.
Matt: JB, you watch her face go--
Ashley: I'll spend some time with you, as well, JB. I just want to make sure I get time with everybody.
Matt: "Of course. Enjoy. I'll just--" And she goes back to her meal and begins cutting it up with fervor or frustration.
Laura: Can I take JB and ask her, did you happen to see my home on the tour?
Matt: "I don't know where you live."
Laura: Would you like to see? I'd love to show you.
Matt: She sidelong glances at Pike helping Ogden up as they begin to make their way out. "You know what? Yes. I would love that."
Laura: All right. I take her.
Matt: So you guys begin making your way. While they exit, because Ogden's a little slower, you and Ogden eventually make your way out to the front part of the castle, walking along the side grounds. He's with his cane, walking. "What did you wish to discuss, young Pike?"
Ashley: I'm blanking right now. Is there a temple of Sarenrae here?
Matt: You have definitely had one constructed. It's a smaller scale. The larger temples here are for Pelor and such and you've been away. Most of your focus has been in Vasselheim and Emon, so you haven't done the full temple construct here, but there's a small shrine that you've built so at least you can go there.
Ashley: I would love to walk you to something that I was a part of building and creating here in the city, if you'd like.
Matt: "Of course. Lead the way. I am your guest. I am here at your behest."
Ashley: I walk him to the shrine of Sarenrae.
Matt: Okay. There was a big building that collapsed during the Briarwood period. The lot was cleaned out, and it's a small standing shrine to Sarenrae at the time being, to eventually be the placeholder for the full temple's construction that you'll build around it. But for the time being, essentially a few small benches, set in a circular stone fashion, and there's a fountain-like carving. A simple carving of Sarenrae for people to pray to. You eventually walk him to that centerpiece. It's mostly empty this time of day. Nobody's currently in the process of upkeep; there isn't a need for it. Some fallen leaves, and it's a little dirty on some of the benches, but you brush it off and you both sit on the bench, looking up at the big winged statue of her. He sits down.
Ashley: Do you know where we are?
Matt: "No idea."
Ashley: This is a shrine of Sarenrae, who I follow, and I wanted to bring you here because I wanted to share it with you.
Matt: "Thank you. It's very peaceful."
Ashley: (sighs) How are you feeling?
Matt: After looking around for a minute, he leans into you and goes, "Pike, we need to talk. I've been tying together the missing pieces of our history for most of my life. This information has helped me once before, and as I'm sure has been discussed at length with your friends, there is a curse upon this bloodline. My research has brought me some knowledge, and I've been able to cast this curse out of one Trickfoot before, but I failed once before that. And I miss her to this day. Do you want to know the history of our curse?"
Ashley: I would.
Matt: "Over four centuries ago, when our kin still occupied the city of Witterbach, up in the Cliffkeep Mountains, long before our bloodline took the name Trickfoot, there was a wily rock gnome called OG Pipemender. Now, OG grew jealous of his brother, Lons, and his business's success, and his marriage, apparently. So, seeking a means of balancing their standing, bringing Lons down a peg or two, OG plotted to undermine and shame his brother, and destroy his life. Now, he was successful in this plot, at least from what I've gleaned. Lons was ruined, but not before it was revealed to Lons that OG himself was the culprit. Now, cornered and fearing for his life, OG lashed out and slew his brother. He fled Witterbach and wandered the mountains for weeks, scavenging to survive. On a full moon, he was visited by a vision of what is believed to be the Lawbearer, Erathis herself. At least, an aspect of her, at the very least. Now, this grave injustice he had committed did not go unnoticed by the Lawbearer, and it required punishment. And a curse was set within the very blood of OG himself. One that lay dormant from generation to generation, unless those carrying the seed fell to extreme selfishness and wanton destruction of others. Now, we Trickfoots may not have the best reputation, but what we do, we do it to survive. And we hurt no other in the process. Those that wander too far into the dark call up this curse and the shades within them slowly hollow them out, leaving a ravenous, selfish beast of a gnome. These visions that I've dreamt, I've had them before. They were not wrong. I saw the shades within my beloved, Ishma, but knew too little at the time to stop them. I caught the shades within others since. Within Johann here, even, years and years ago. And used what I learned to exorcise them out. Now, these visions I have now show you, young Pike. A darkness within you far greater than the others, and I don't know what has drawn them to you. You walk with such light, and I am worried what could be hidden beneath all the layers of silver and gold and blue and Sarenrae's blessing that could still draw these shades to you. Where you've been, what you've done, I know not. I know not the justice of the goddess, can presume not to know, I don't bother myself with such unknowable things. But I am here to try and help, if I can. If you'll have me."
Ashley: Wow. That's a lot.
Matt: "I've had an entire lifetime to think and learn and research and regret."
Ashley: How long have you been having visions, in terms of this happening with me?
Matt: "This is only over the past couple of years, but I knew not where to find you until you sent your letter."
Ashley: And what are your thoughts on JB?
Matt: "She is very dedicated. She's very sweet. She's a bit distracted, at times. She cares much for the stories of you and your friends. The poor thing's been at my side for the majority of her youth. I feel like a burden. She looks after me and not much else, so she lives vicariously through the stories she manages to assemble of you."
Ashley: And she knows about all this, as well?
Matt: "They all know. We've had time to speak. I was the one that insisted we come see you, and I do apologize for the rest of them. They are unique."
Ashley: Well, I think I was at first shocked, and I feel like I need to apologize for my trepidation and wariness at first.
Matt: "It's understood. Like I said, we have a reputation. One that you've, as far as what I've heard, been able to kick to the curb."
Laura: (sneezes)
Ashley: Bless you.
Laura: Thank you.
Ashley: Just little fairies, sneezing fairies, around here.
Matt: "It's adorable. I don't see them."
Ashley: You usually don't. You just hear them.
Matt: "I don't see much, anyway."
Ashley: It's okay. You said you've had some successes in releasing this thing?
Matt: "I've cast it out once before. I've been trying to define a ritual that can do so."
Ashley: How do you define this ritual? Is this under any sort of faith that you have?
Matt: "I find little in faith. However, the exorcism is based in divine magics and some bits of information I've gleaned from the Age of Arcanum, long ago, back when possession was a common thing and gods still walked the earth. What I've found--" And he leans forward on his stick. "-- is to perform this. Pardon me, it's the breakfast. All the oatmeal. It's good for the fiber."
Ashley: It sure is.
Matt: "What I would require would be the highest point on the highest mountain in the vicinity. As high up as we can go. Like somewhere in those mountains there." He points a broad stroke to the north, northeast, to the Alabaster Sierras that surround the Parchwood. "And when the moon is full, as that was when the original curse was cast upon us, there, we hallow the ground to prepare. Perhaps you or another individual of a clerical background could do so, and it does take some time to hallow it. But with the ground hallowed, and the moon is full, I can perform the exorcism. Now, should the shades be strong enough to survive the exorcism, as they have once before, it will be up to you and your friends to slay them while they're bound on that land. And if you cast them to the shadows where they came, the blood curse on you would be no more."
Ashley: But they'll come back again?
Matt: "They are passed on through the bloodline."
Ashley: Is there any way to get rid of them forever?
Matt: "From an individual, yes. Overall, I know not. That involves silly, crazy god stuff, and, well, they haven't been around often. There are a few things we need to prepare for the exorcism that I don't have the access of. If you wish to go through with this, let me know. If you find this all mumbo jumbo and you don't believe me, I don't blame you, either, and we can be on our way. Choice is yours."
Ashley: So you want to perform the exorcism on me?
Matt: "You're the one the visions brought me to."
Ashley: Well, this is something that I'll have to think about. We'll have to talk about it with everybody else, especially if it involves them, as well.
Matt: "Of course. Take your time. They're about-- JB? JB, how close are we to the full moon?" He's shouting out into nothing.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check--
Matt: You're not there.
Ashley: Do I know?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Ashley: Nature check?
Matt: Nature check.
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: Get it.
Ashley: Let me find a d20. Oh, ten.
Matt: You're not sure. You're not very involved or invested in the cycles of the moon.
Ashley: You know, I could talk to Keyleth about that. She would know.
Matt: "Very well."
Ashley: And thank you for telling me all of this.
Matt: "Thank you for being so kind to family that you owe nothing to."
Ashley: I'm very grateful that you're here, and even though our last name has a reputation, I'm proud to be a Trickfoot.
Matt: "That warms my heart, and to hear you say that, maybe one day I will be, as well, before my time is up."
Ashley: I think we can make that happen.
Matt: "I think so, too." He reaches out and pinches the air about a foot off of your face. "There it is."
Ashley: Well, let's go back. I have some thinking to do.
Matt: "All right. Your gray blob is very nice."
Ashley: Oh. Yes, she is.
Matt: "Thank you for showing me. If you don't mind?"
Ashley: Oh, of course.
Matt: (grunts) You guys begin to slowly make your way back to Castle Whitestone. That's where we're going to take our break. We'll come back here in a few minutes.
Travis: (laughing) Kill him, Pike! Kill the bearer of bad news.
Matt: And Flame Strike! All right, guys. We'll be back here in just a minute. We do have another Wyrmwood giveaway in the chat room. This is for this awesome--
Ashley: Are we still going?
Crew: It's still going.
Ashley: Oh!
Matt: We're still going. This is lacewood. Lacewood deck box.
Travis: Is it made of lace?
Matt: It's made of wood that is lacy.
Laura: It is really pretty. I haven't seen that one.
Marisha: I'm kind of jelly. Why didn't we get lacewood?
Matt: I don't know. Well, now you get to get a wood that everyone on here is jealous of. If you go ahead and enter, the code word in the Twitch chat is 'family', so when you're prompted, go ahead and put 'family' and see if you can win. See you guys here in a few minutes. [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role. First and foremost-- nice try, guys. First and foremost, we have our winner for the break. It is, and pardon me for butchering your chat handle, emiliaaldean. E-M-I-L-I-A-A-L-D-E-A-N. Emelialdean. Congratulations! You won your fantastic Wyrmwood card case. It will come to you, signed by the cast, for you to put things inside. Put things inside! Put many things inside. Now! Back into the game, guys. So, Pike. Having walked him back to the castle, we'll jump in for a moment as Vex, you've been leading JB.
Laura: I have!
Matt: She walks alongside you at a comfortable three-foot distance, but she's walking with you.
Laura: You know you can walk next to me?
Matt: "I am walking next to you."
Laura: Oh, I thought she was walking behind me. Is she walking next to me?
Matt: She's behind and to the side.
Laura: No, seriously. Come over here. I don't want to turn my head when I'm talking to you, dear.
Matt: "Right." She quickens her pace. You know, gnomish gait.
Laura: I walk slower. So this is my home. We just built it. Isn't it wonderful?
Matt: "It's beautiful."
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "What's it like having a home?"
Laura: Oh. I went a long time without one, as well. It feels wonderful to finally have someplace to settle down.
Matt: "That's very nice. We're always moving from place to place."
Laura: Yeah. Why is that?
Matt: "We can't afford to put stakes down anywhere, and it doesn't take long for people to figure out who we are."
Laura: What are you?
Matt: "Trickfoots?"
Laura: Well, yes. I know. I know that. But my experience with Trickfoots has always been pleasant.
Matt: "Let's just say that some of our family aren't the most subtle." She looks down and to the side and averts her gaze. "They're good people. They're very good people. Johann has done a lot for us, but he's more prideful than the rest of us. As soon as anyone starts any shit, he's the first to get in their face about it. He's a fiery one. It's why Astra took to him."
Laura: She's fiery as well, it seems.
Matt: "She's something."
Laura: If you could settle down anywhere, where would it be?
Matt: She looks around at the whole city. "Probably right here."
Laura: Whitestone is quite wonderful.
Matt: "It's very nice. People here are far less dubious than the folks in Kymal, at the very least."
Laura: Pike's buttered us up quite well.
Matt: "I miss her a lot. We grew up together. I don't know if you knew that."
Laura: I heard. How old was she when she left?
Matt: "I don't know the specifics of it, but me and her were both in our first decade."
Laura: What was that like, having Pike leave and you staying behind?
Matt: "We were friends. She was my only friend, at the time. I've always been a reader. They tell me the first of my kind, so I didn't take to making new friends very well. That, and Uncle needs someone to look after him, and I didn't really want to drop the ball on that."
Laura: Well, you're a good person.
Matt: "I'm a person."
Laura: Would you like to see the library?
Matt: "You have a library?"
Laura: It's growing.
Matt: "Yes, please!"
Laura: I don't know how big the library is right now.
Matt: (laughs) In Castle Whitestone?
Laura: I mean, it's my particular--
Matt: Oh, your personal library? It's not huge.
Laura: I'm growing it!
Matt: I know, but it took a while to construct it, and then some books have made their way in. It's maybe a third full, but as you show her, she's like, "What kind of books do you have?"
Laura: Oh, well, a lot of books about really terrible gods. Some good gods. Oh! I have something about the Feywild; I remember picking that up. Would you like to learn about the Feywild?
Matt: "Yeah. I've only heard a few things."
Laura: I go dig through my books and find it.
Matt: She takes her straightened hair to the side, and she nervously steps back with it and smiles with her little gap tooth. "Are you sure?"
Laura: Of course. Have you ever learned anything about the curse on your family? Have you seen that in books?
Matt: She starts getting a little dark and says, "Not in the books, no. Nobody really writes books about the Trickfoots. I know what Ogden's talked about, and why we're here. I think he wants to try and help."
Laura: Right. Have you ever seen anyone be affected by it, personally?
Matt: "Not in my lifetime. The last one Ogden went to was before our time, me and Pike. It doesn't happen often-- the vision, at least."
Laura: Well, that's good.
Matt: "I don't know if it's a coming of age thing or not."
Laura: But you've never had any visions.
Matt: "No. I wish I did. That would be interesting. Would be different."
Laura: You are quite different. That's something to be proud of.
Matt: She takes the book. (sighs)
Laura: You know, one of my very best friends, Taryon Darrington, is an incredible writer, and I bet if you told him about the curse, he'd be willing to write it down.
Matt: "Really?"
Laura: Oh yes. You would go into complete detail about it, and he would make it sound very interesting. Maybe we could have somebody draw pictures for it!
Matt: (stutters) "Okay."
Laura: Trickfoots could be legends.
Matt: "Well, you already have one."
Laura: Well, yes. But there are multiple chapters.
Matt: "Okay. Well, we'd have to talk to Uncle Ogden about that; he knows it better than anybody."
Laura: Of course, yes. We'll sit down with him, but I bet you know quite a few details, as well, having taken care of him for so long.
Matt: "Maybe. I don't know."
Laura: We should find Tary. Take that with you.
Matt: "You're sure?"
Laura: Yes, yes. We can talk about it on the way back.
Matt: "Okay." She follows after you as you guys head back to the castle. Eventually you guys stumble up to the castle, and there's Taryon with Doty. What are you guys in the process of doing right now?
Sam: He's combing my hair.
Matt: "Tary."
Laura: Tary?
Sam: 33, 34, 35. Oh, LE Girl. How are you?
Laura: Hi, darling. So, our dear friend JB, here. I told her what a wonderful writer you are.
Sam: Well, yes. Unpublished as of yet, as we all know.
Laura: It's a growing book.
Sam: Budding.
Laura: Yes. And I told her it might be fun if we wrote down a little about the Trickfoots and their curse.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Something so other people can learn about them.
Sam: Like a short story or something?
Laura: Mm-hm.
Sam: I mean, sure, they could write something like that. I would maybe even read it someday.
Laura: No, I want her to tell you about it, and you can write it down. That way we have all the details.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: You know, you're such a wonderful writer, dear.
Sam: I am a wonderful writer, but, you know, my story has intrigue and danger and romance--
Laura: There's all those things in the curse, darling. Maybe just write a new book for the time being, just a small other book?
Sam: Seems like a bit of a downer, just a book about a curse, I mean. You know how it's gonna end. Someone's gonna get cursed.
Laura: Doty.
Sam: What? Oh. Oh! Yes. Yes! Of course. I would be happy to take down her story. Yes, absolutely, if she'll share it with me.
Laura: I mean, if she's willing.
Matt: "I mean, yeah. We should get Ogden, though. He knows more than I do about it."
Laura: Of course, of course, you can just tell us a little bit about it while we go get him.
Sam: We could call it an outline and then Ogden can fill in the details later.
Laura: Of course. Flourish.
Matt: "Okay." And she goes in to tell you what she knows of the curse, in fair detail, talking about how, long ago, there was people in the family that apparently killed a brother and pissed off a god, and ever since, the family was cursed, so they left what was once the gnomish city of Wittebach. And the curse seems to manifest when a Trickfoot falls too deep into the spell of selfishness or dark thoughts and habits, and manifests in these shades that eventually hollow them out to the point where they are nothing but a being of avarice and greed.
Laura: Of greed, hm?
Matt: "Well, it's part of the reason that we have such a bad reputation. Those that befell the curse kind of tore a path through the countryside."
Laura: Now, you say 'hollowed out by shades'. Do you still look like a normal gnome, or?
Matt: "I haven't seen anyone. I don't know. This is stuff that I heard from Uncle Ogden."
Laura: Wow. I wonder what that looks like.
Matt: "Hopefully we never find out."
Laura: Well, no, obviously. But just for detail, so we can illustrate it.
Sam: The curse only manifests itself in those who bring it upon themselves with greed, or?
Matt: "Those that draw too close to it, that's what I know about it."
Laura: Well, how can Pike be at risk, then?
Sam: That seems odd.
Laura: She's one of the most generous people I've ever known.
Sam: Unless she's doing things that we don't know about.
Laura: No. (laughs) No. It's Pike.
Matt: "I know. That's why I'm worried."
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Well, your narrative was crude and the language not at all descriptive, but I think we have the building blocks to work with here for something that we could turn into, you know, like an essay. An essay of some sort.
Laura: A good short book with a lot of drawings--
Sam: Not a book, not a book at all, nope.
Laura: -- leather cover with embossing on it or something quite lovely.
Sam: I don't think it would be thick enough for that.
Laura: Gold filigree, probably, something just very beautiful.
Sam: A pamphlet, maybe. A big pamphlet.
Matt: She's nodding. "All right, yeah."
Sam: We'll work on it.
Laura: Yeah. Let's head back.
Matt: "Yeah, I should go." You join up with Pike and Ogden. You guys reconvene, now. It's getting later in the day, dusk is taking. What do you wish to do?
Laura: Don't worry. I got so many details about the curse, I know all about it.
Ashley: Oh, great. I got some details, too.
Laura: Oh.
Ashley: Well, I think-- I would love to get everybody together and just talk some stuff out.
Laura: Good call. Should this just be Vox Machina?
Ashley: Yeah, just like us.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Percy. The string's leaving a mark in my chin and cheeks. I feel like now is a good time to put the hat back in its place of holding. Will you guide me to the hallowed area from whence it came?
Taliesin: How would you know that it's leaving a mark if you had not disturbed the string? It's very important.
Travis: It itches, and I feel deadening of the skin in this U-shape.
Taliesin: Are you saying that it's too difficult for you to wear, that it's not working?
Travis: Nope. It's staying on.
Taliesin: All right.
Travis: I just wanted to know if you wanted it back.
Taliesin: Let me know when you are finished with it, and when it is time to retire it, I will make sure that it goes back to its resting place.
Travis: Cool. Will do. (laughter)
Matt: All right. Meal is prepared for the guesting Trickfoots, specified to keep separate from wherever you decide to have your meal, but you manage to gather the rest of Vox Machina at your behest to have a discussion, I imagine probably in one of your chambers, separately from the rest of the castle, where you can talk in private. So as you all slowly gather within, we'll say Pike's room for the simplicity of this, close the door behind you, and you have all been brought together.
Marisha: You have a really big room, Pike.
Ashley: Yeah, it is very large.
Marisha: Yeah, not that I'm comparing, I'm just, it's very nice.
Ashley: I feel like I don't need this much room.
Taliesin: I think my sister likes you.
Ashley: Well, we do get along very well.
Sam: You've called us together for a reason?
Ashley: So I talked to-- and I know you got information, too-- I talked to Ogden, and he told me some stuff that's a little disturbing, but I guess, you know, way back in our family there were these brothers, and one of them sort of was overcome with jealousy, and he killed the other one, and basically, long story short, our family has had a curse because of that action, and Ogden wants to perform an exorcism on me to get rid of this thing. But I don't feel any different, I don't feel like I have anything, and he said, you know, we would all have to be a part of it and go on a mountaintop while there's a full moon, and I don't know.
Laura: This seems weird.
Travis: That's heavy.
Marisha: When you list it out like that, really weird.
Taliesin: Bit odd. Seems a bit odd.
Sam: Most times, family comes into town, you show them a couple sights--
Marisha: You drink a lot of wine.
Sam: -- yeah, they leave. This seems like a strange family visit.
Liam: There's a curse on you?
Laura: Yeah, JB said it was brought upon by greed.
Sam: And avarice.
Laura: Whoa.
Travis: What?
Liam: Listen, buddy, you just learned the letter 'u' to say 'u-shaped', I think you should call that a win.
Travis: I did.
Sam: JB said that you would have to bring this curse on yourself. Have you been up to-- be straight with us, we're all on the same team, here.
Laura: You're not doing any drugs like Scanlan was?
Ashley: No!
Sam: Are you sure you don't have greed in your heart? Lust in your heart?
Ashley: No!
Travis: Pike, you look me in the eye.
Ashley: No.
Travis: She's telling the truth. (laughter)
Travis: Not a lie in that little soul of hers.
Marisha: It's hard to take you seriously, ever, but even more so now with that ridiculous hat.
Laura: Yeah, maybe you should take it off, it's kind of annoying--
Travis: Heavy is the head that wears the crown. (laughter)
Liam: Don't let these people tear you down, Grog.
Taliesin: At what point will (strained) the lack of circulation begin to make you talk like this?
Travis: I'm gonna get you for this.
Liam: And also, I mean, if we take you at your word, and of course we do, so the curse, you-- you're very in tune with divine things and with curses and things of fiendish nature. You don't sense anything in yourself. It doesn't really add up. Is it possible-- I mean, they're family, and I know you love them to a degree-- but is it possible they're jerking you around?
Ashley: Anything's possible. I just-- I don't feel like they're lying. Unless.
Taliesin: I don't feel like they're telling the whole truth.
Ashley: Yeah. I don't feel like they're telling the whole truth, but I think something's there, and I can't seem to get to the bottom of it.
Laura: Have you prayed to Sarenrae?
Ashley: No. I haven't, yet.
Marisha: I feel like we're not one to speak on curses and bad things not existing.
Travis: Yeah, what about a second opinion? Like one time it was really burning when I was peeing, and the guy's like, oh, eat this and it'll be fine, and I was like, mm, I'm gonna get a second opinion.
Marisha: That was cranberry juice, Grog, and that was a solid opinion.
Travis: Yeah, it actually turned out to be true.
Ashley: That's a very good analogy.
Sam: What if we do this  what if we go up to the mountain, full moon, go through the motions, and Keyleth, you're super-powerful, you must have some sort of way of telling if this Ogden is telling the truth, right?
Marisha: Um. I could look at his face and his weird tics and deduce very hard.
Taliesin: Talk to his tics. Does he have tics?
Laura: When is the next full moon?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Liam: Am I remembering that incorrectly?
Ashley: Yes.
Laura: So maybe just try to cure yourself of this curse. Is that possible?
Marisha: 25.
Matt: 25. Four days.
Taliesin: We'd have to start right now.
Sam: The other option is-- and I've been holding onto it 'cause it's valuable-- I do happen to have a Potion of Mind Reading, so we could go up there with him and I could just read his mind.
Liam: You could also do that now.
Travis: But what if he thinks he's telling the truth?
Sam: That is the smartest thing you've ever said.
Travis: This fucking hat is magic! (laughter)
Ashley: What if-- how much of that potion do you have?
Sam: One. I have one of it.
Ashley: I mean, gnomes are small, what if we give them all a shot?
Laura: We take the potion, and then we read their minds.
Ashley: I understand. I think I thought--
Marisha: You thought it was truth serum, yeah. Yeah, I was kinda with you there. Okay, hang on. I mean, we're, as Taryon said, awesome.
Sam: I said that about you.
Marisha: I was being generous.
Sam: Thank you.
Marisha: If we just go through with this, is there any harm in that?
Taliesin: We should start, at the very least. My worry is, if I understand this curse correctly, the only person I think that could possibly be at risk from it would be JB.
Sam: Why?
Taliesin: Think about it. What avarice have any of us ever experienced from Pike?
Ashley: I don't even know what that word means.
Taliesin: I...
Ashley: Like, if you were to just define avarice.
Sam: You know, it's sinful in a sort of vague way.
Ashley: I mean, I don't even--
Laura: Trinket doesn't even know, and he knows everything.
Travis: Scholars maintain...
Taliesin: What I'm saying is perhaps--
Sam: Google? Maybe we could Google it?
Taliesin: Please do, actually. Google avarice.
Sam: I think it's having hate in your heart? I think?
Taliesin: Hate and greed.
Travis: I thought it was pride.
Marisha: Hate, greed, pride, any of the seven deadly sins.
Sam: What is avarice?
Matt: It's Tary.
Taliesin: It's a covet-ness, it's someone is--
Marisha: Man, I feel like we're really getting off the point.
Taliesin: The point I'm trying to make is, and I'm having a notion--
Matt: My apologies for using a word with a--
Laura: Five-dollar word.
Marisha: Why did you use an SAT word, Matt? Why?
Matt: I read a lot of books growing up, I'm sorry!
Sam: Doesn't say.
Liam: It's pronounced av-riggle.
Taliesin: The point I'm trying to make in all of this is that perhaps they're trying to save one of their own, and perhaps they need to move the curse to another Trickfoot.
Sam: Oh, it's just greed. It's just greed.
Travis: Like I said, greed.
Laura: So, wait, I have a question. What if all of them are actually cursed, and they're trying to bring you in?
Travis: Ooh. Ooh! That's a good thought. We kill all of them. No.
Sam: Yes. Yes! Of course. They'll be easily killed, they're half our size.
Laura: What did Ogden say this exorcism entailed?
Ashley: He said that we go to the highest mountain, we have to wait 'til a full moon, you have to have it be hallowed ground, and just sort of set up a ritual, and he said maybe we could get help from whomever, and I was thinking of Vax, and I don't know! This is so beyond anything that I know!
Laura: And then what would happen? We just send the curse out of you and all is well?
Ashley: I guess? This sounds so ridiculous as I'm saying it out loud.
Travis: I mean, do you want to go see another cleric and see if you even need to exercise or not?
Marisha: Very fit.
Laura: Very strong.
Ashley: I feel like I like the mind-reading serum. We could just see. We have four days 'til a full moon.
Taliesin: We should start consecrating the ground, at the very least.
Liam: Also, do we really imagine whatever trouble they might be bringing to Pike's doorstep is something we can't handle? I mean, we've dealt with pretty terrible things. I have a hard time imagining it could be worse-- I'm not saying it's not dangerous, it should be--
Travis: Avarice.
Liam: Oh, I got a nosebleed. We could just do-- I mean, Keyleth could do her trick of turning us into ladybugs or flies or whatever and we could all hang out and follow along. I mean, mind-reading first.
Ashley: I think you're allowed to be there.
Laura: Yeah, we can be there.
Liam: We can just be there, they don't care? Oh. I was shooting guns today.
Marisha: Ogden at dinner the other night said that each generation is affected by a blood curse, and he believes it's you in this generation? Because you and JB are in the same age, right? So you're the same generation. So maybe Percy's theory isn't quite wrong.
Sam: Percy's very smart.
Marisha: I don't know.
Taliesin: I tend to veer towards the worst-case scenario. Somebody has to.
Laura: Will JB be there at the exorcism?
Taliesin: That is a question.
Laura: We need to make sure she is, just in case.
Marisha: Or isn't, just in case. Right?
Laura: No. If there is a curse, and she is affected, it would be good to get it out of her as well.
Marisha: But what if it goes out of Pike and into her?
Travis: What if it goes out of her and into Pike?
Marisha: Man, so many variables.
Sam: We should all be there together, because stronger in numbers, and if Pike's lying to us we kill her, and if JB's lying to us we kill her.
Ashley: Well, hold on. Well, okay, yeah. If it comes down to that, everybody, we have to know that that has to be--
Laura: (laughs) We're not going to kill you.
Sam: No, if you're infected with evil, we might have to--
Travis: Yeah, what does it do? Do you turn into a crazy beast?
Ashley: I have no idea.
Travis: Like, do you get tentacles?
Ashley: That's-- I feel like that would be an upgrade.
Travis: That's not really that bad.
Ashley: No. I doubt that's what it is.
Travis: Maybe we're approaching this the wrong way.
Ashley: I'm intrigued by this mind-reading serum.
Sam: I've never used it, so it should probably work great.
Laura: How much was that?
Sam: About a thousand.
Liam: That's not bad.
Travis: Do it.
Marisha: I mean, maybe Ogden just isn't telling you things because he's so old, it's locked away and he doesn't remember. You know?
Laura: Maybe we just have to ask?
Taliesin: I would check both of them.
Travis: Do it.
Ashley: All of them. And Astra.
Marisha: How long does it last?
Sam: I can only, I think, investigate one person-- or gnome-- at a time, but then I can move the spell to other people. Let me-- Doty, give me my notes on the spell that I took. Hold on.
Liam: What time is it right now?
Matt: Pushing close to dusk.
Laura: 9 46.
Taliesin: We should perhaps do this while we're setting up the ritual.
Ashley: Yes.
Taliesin: Since it'll just be up there and it'll be natural to talk about this subject.
Ashley: And to not go when it's a full moon, so we don't actually have to do it, but we can set it up.
Taliesin: Exactly. It's going to take several days, and I'm sure we're going to need their help.
Sam: I can shift my attention to other creatures' thoughts, or go deeper into the same creature's mind. So I can do some surface scans, and then if I get a hit, I can go deeper.
Taliesin: Prod your fingers deep into the recesses, the nooks and crannies of their--
Sam: Of course, I still defer to you as my teammates. I don't have to be the one who takes this serum. I did pay for it, but if one of you wanted to do the probing, you could buy it off me, I suppose.
Ashley: Well, I feel like they wouldn't be as on-guard with you.
Laura: Yeah, plus we already said you're gonna write a book about it.
Sam: That's true. It fits.
Marisha: It's an interview.
Laura: That's really good.
Liam: We could also just take them out for a drink and get their guard down.
Marisha: You don't look like you're reading someone's mind when you're doing it, right?
Taliesin: You don't have to do this.
Laura: You can definitely do it to Ogden first, then, 'cause he won't be able to tell.
Sam: He can't see.
Laura: He can't see, so if you look weird, he won't know. Perfect cover.
Taliesin: In case you have to look weird. Do you have to look weird while you do this?
Liam: I mean, you are dressed like a Faberge egg.
Matt: You are welcome to look weird while you do it.
Sam: I feel like that's a compliment.
Liam: Let's go with that.
Ashley: Is there anything-- do one of you guys wanna-- can one of you guys check me to see if there's something in there that I don't know? Vax?
Travis: You look good.
Marisha: You don't look in her ear--
Travis: Why not?
Liam: I don't think so. I mean, you're the holiest person in this city.
Laura: Can you check yourself? Just pray to Sarenrae, see if she'll give you a little hint.
Marisha: Don't you have that Divine Intervention-y thing? That Dear Sarenwae-- Sarenrae.
Ashley: Deaw Sarenwae. (laughter)
Taliesin: Are you listening, Sarenrae? It's me, Pike. (laughter)
Ashley: Tonight I'll see if maybe I can get some answers. But should we-- do we do this tonight, this mind-reading serum?
Taliesin: I say tomorrow on the mountain.
Sam: I was gonna say-- it's four days, right?
Taliesin: Yeah, we've got to start right now.
Sam: Well, I think we do it while we're up there.
Marisha: Is it four days and on that night?
Matt: Four nights from tonight.
Marisha: Four nights from tonight.
Taliesin: So we have to start this immediately.
Matt: Pretty soon. Make a history check, Percival.
Taliesin: No one bothered to listen to any of my exciting stories about my home. All right, that's a 19.
Matt: Okay. As far as-- from what Pike told you-- as far as high up in the mountains, and a good place that you can imagine for a moonlit ceremony, there is a place. It's a rock shelf to the northeast of Whitestone on the Salted Bluffs. It's called the Dawn Table.
Taliesin: The Dawn Table.
Matt: It's a rock shelf used for prayer when the spring rolls around. A lot of fishermen go there and leave offerings. It's meant to bring-- I wouldn't say a good harvest, but a good season for catching fish and trying to bring food back to Whitestone, so that's pretty high up. It's gonna be probably about two and a half days' travel on foot.
Taliesin: But we can carpet or teleport.
Matt: If you have a way of getting there.
Marisha: Are there trees nearby? Are there trees nearby?
Taliesin: I'll see if I can recall if there's a tree nearby.
Matt: That part of the mountain is pretty-- they do have trees, but the trees are pretty thin. They're like pine tree, that wide at the most, and you need a pretty thick tree to Transport Via Plants.
Marisha: I can get us close.
Taliesin: We can certainly get closer.
Matt: You can cut off about half a day's travel, about a day's worth of travel, I guess.
Marisha: We can also travel via being clouds, like we've done in the past.
Travis: We really don't wanna walk? It's so lovely out. Danger is at an all-time low.
Marisha: Or we can just hike and enjoy the scenery. It is a nice hike. The canyons. Yeah. It's rained a lot this winter.
Laura: Is it okay to leave everyone here while we go?
Taliesin: It's only a few days.
Sam: We've got the Musketeers guarding the place.
Liam: Kynan's on it.
Marisha: So, okay. If it's two and a half days' journey, and we're planning on doing this, then we would have to take Ogden and the gnomes and all things needed for this ritual, right?
Laura: Yeah, I think so.
Marisha: It means we would at least be framing it like we're committing. I mean, that gives you a long hike to be able to talk and mind-read the gnomes while we walk.
Sam: It lasts for one minute.
Marisha: It gives you a solid good minute of hiking to read the gnomes.
Taliesin: Maybe during the ritual set-up because, I don't know, would it work while you're walking?
Sam: I mean, maybe, but I feel like we wait for the big moment, and then see what's going on in his head.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: It's more dramatic that way, anyway, for the book. And for our lives.
Ashley: And, just so you guys know, I've been discussing with what Vex knows about it as well. I think, from what he said, it's like a bunch of shapes come out, and we would all have to fight them.
Laura: Shades.
Ashley: Shades, shades, shades.
Sam: Way to bury the lede, Pike.
Ashley: I forgot about that. My b.
Travis: It's like, I'm cool with shapes, but.
Taliesin: Not a rhombus, anything but that.
Ashley: We don't know.
Marisha: Wait, shades coming from you?
Laura: Maybe the curse? JB had mentioned that the shades infest someone and hollow them out. I don't know what that translates to.
Marisha: You don't look shady. (strained laughter)
Marisha: Vax. Can you do a thing to look inside of Pike?
Travis: Yeah, x-ray her!
Laura: Try it, just try it.
Liam: The best I can do-- I mean, I can cast Divine Sense and Lay On Hands and-- I mean, I can-- poison and disease are things I can help with, but not--
Travis: Well, you don't even know. Give it a try.
Laura: Divine Sense? Divine Sense. That sounds like something real--
Liam: Let's find out if you're a fiend or undead.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: And I do it.
Matt: All right. You sit there and you close your eyes and you focus in front of you on Pike's gnome form. Interestingly enough... ... you get nothing.
Travis: Oh, shut up, man, don't fucking do that shit. (laughter)
Liam: You're welcome.
Ashley: Okay.
Sam: She's not wearing a wire. She's okay.
Liam: Is there some embarrassing thing hidden, tucked away, that you don't like to talk about? Like, are you afraid of pickles or you don't want to be--
Ashley: No, I mean, I talk about everything with you guys.
Sam: There's no secrets that you have?
Travis: You don't chew on your own toenails or anything?
Sam: No singular secret that you've kept from the entire group the entire time we've known you?
Taliesin: I feel like chewing on your own toenails is the worst villain origin possible.
Ashley: Of course I chew on my own toenails. I mean.
Sam: There's not some deep secret that you're keeping from us?
Ashley: No, I mean, I think about one time with Scanlan--
Marisha: Wait, I feel like a story was starting!
Laura: She was about to say something.
Ashley: No, you guys know this. When I got in a lot of trouble for taking a shit on that bed. Or killing the guy with the mace. Or sometimes I'll go to a brothel. But I don't do anything that bad!
Laura: That's not bad.
Ashley: I don't know. I don't know if there's anything in there.
Taliesin: I'm highly dubious of this entire endeavor.
Laura: I think you need to talk to Sarenrae.
Ashley: Okay. Well, when should we leave?
Marisha: Well, two and a half days, I can teleport us closer, and then we can either hike or cloud the rest of the way.
Laura: Would you be able to cloud the gnomes too, though?
Matt: Probably not in one casting but you could do double-cast, like two trips and get all of you up pretty quick.
Sam: But then we'll be sitting there for two days.
Marisha: With the gnomes or the tree stride? Or Teleport Via Plants?
Matt: Well, Teleport Via Plants, whoever can fit through there in that short time, you can probably get you guys and the gnomes through, but referring to your Wind Walk, which, how many targets can that affect at once? Up to ten willing creatures.
Marisha: And there's how many gnomes?
Matt: There's four.
Marisha: Four.
Matt: So you'd leave one behind.
Marisha: Then we'd leave one behind. Okay.
Matt: Which, you'd have to talk to them about that.
Ashley: Are there any other clerics that we know?
Liam: Not in town on your level.
Matt: There's Keeper Yennen, but he's like--
Laura: Yeah, where did Kash go to in the last year?
Matt: Kash has been in Vasselheim.
Liam: I mean, and Vasselheim is chock full of clerics, so maybe we could find help there.
Taliesin: Gilmore's out of town.
Ashley: Okay. Maybe we go ask them and say--
Laura: Yennen?
Ashley: The family. I mean, it sounds crazy, but maybe we just go up there, go through the motions.
Travis: Yeah, it's your show.
Laura: Just do it.
Taliesin: Let's do it. I'm going to get some tents and some food put together, so we're at least comfortable.
Sam: Are we walking, or can we get some horses at least?
Taliesin: It's not really horse-accessible.
Laura: We'll be fine, Tary.
Sam: I'm worried about the big guy.
Taliesin: The big guy will be fine.
Sam: I guess he can just walk.
Taliesin: He can cloud-stride as well.
Laura: Well, no, Doty can't mist-form, right?
Liam: Can Trinket and Doty ride in your--
Laura: No, Doty, I've tried to put him in the--
Taliesin: One of us, in theory, should actually perhaps take the carpet so we can put Doty on the carpet.
Liam: I'm sitting on the carpet right now.
Laura: How heavy is Doty?
Sam: Let me look at Matt's statistics.
Matt: Doty technically counts as a creature, though it is, much like a golem or a construct of some kind, it would be considered a creature. It is a construct. So in theory, you would have to tell Doty, "Doty, turn into wind." And that probably would work.
Sam: I could do that.
Marisha: It would take a slot out of our ten.
Sam: How fast does this cloud thing move?
Matt: It moves pretty quick. 300 feet. Flying speed of 300, which is ten times as fast as you walk. And without-- going straight up the mountain, you could make the full journey, talking with Percy about this, from the base of the mountain to the Dawn Table in about two hours.
Taliesin: We wouldn't even need the tree-stride, to be honest, we could just do it.
Marisha: Wait, from here to the base of the mountain?
Taliesin: I mean, we could do from the base of the mountain to the top in two hours, three hours, but we could make the entire journey quite quickly.
Laura: So she could just double-cast.
Matt: The entire journey you could make in about six and a half hours.
Laura: Solid. So some people go up, you come back, turn the rest of the people in.
Marisha: With my tree-stride.
Laura: No.
Matt: Without tree-stride.
Marisha: With the gas.
Liam: Let's go glamping.
Marisha: Let's go glamping. But as long as I can sleep afterwards.
Taliesin: We'll bring tents, we're going to bring some nice tents.
Matt: It lasts for eight hours, so you'll be using most of the duration to get there, you could probably fly back if you want to, or tree-stride back if you had a tree you could find up there to do it. So yeah, you could do that.
Marisha: I do that.
Matt: Okay. So what do you do? You go and gather up the other Trickfoots? You approach the rest of them, Ogden, JB.
Marisha: We're not leaving tonight, right?
Matt: Whenever you guys want to?
Marisha: Tonight? This is the same night we got back.
Laura: Oh, right, it is.
Taliesin: In the morning.
Laura: Okay, we'll leave in the morning, yeah.
Sam: At dawn, we leave.
Ashley: So I'll go to them at dinner. Okay, so we've had some discussions and I think it'll take us a little bit of time to get up there and do whatever setting-up you need to do on the top of the mountain, so we were thinking, if you guys are okay with this, of leaving tomorrow morning.
Matt: You can see Johann and Astra kind of turn over to Ogden. Ogden goes, "Yes, that would be perfect. When is the next full moon?"
Ashley: It's in four days.
Matt: "Four days, all right. That gives us time to prepare. I need a few things for this ritual."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: "I don't know how to retrieve them necessarily. I require a jug of water that has been blessed by a priest of the Moonweaver." The Moonweaver is one of the gods, largely elven worship. You guys have crossed a number of temples that worship the Moonweaver in Syngorn and some other-- you do find them occasionally in civilization, but they're more the kind of shrines that you find out in the center of the forest.
Laura: I can totally get that.
Matt: Goddess of the moonlight and autumn. He says, "Also, as part of a reagent for the exorcism, a diamond worth no less than 1,000 gold pieces that will be consumed by the actual ritual."
Taliesin: That's doable, I believe.
Matt: "I also need a solid pound of dried lavender, and a half a pound of powdered sulfur."
Taliesin: I'm pretty sure we have access to that.
Matt: "And, of course, you, Pike. And that should be sufficient to complete the ritual."
Laura: She's not going to be injured in this ritual?
Matt: "No, no. Either the shade is cast out and destroyed, or it's cast out and then you destroy it. Either way, you should be fine."
Laura: Just the one shade, then?
Matt: "Depends."
Travis: You've done this before.
Matt: "Twice. Three times."
Travis: And it's always gone right.
Matt: "It's gone right twice."
Travis: What happened the time it didn't?
Matt: "That was the first time. I didn't know what I was in for, and I couldn't save them."
Travis: Oh, shit.
Laura: Right. What do the people look like after they've been taken over?
Matt: And you see he gets really dark and focused in himself for a second. You see the glimmer across the glasses on his face, and he goes, "They begin to grow hatred for all those they once loved. They begin to strike out at the world around them, take whatever they like, and those that stand in their way are merely to be cut down. Eventually, at least from what I've seen, they continue to take until somebody cuts them down."
Laura: Do they just look like--
Matt: "They just look like themselves. But their whole personality changes."
Travis: Cool. I'm encouraged.
Laura: Maybe they just turned into an asshole.
Ashley: That just sounds like someone who's an asshole.
Taliesin: Nothing a little lavender and sulfur can't cure, in my experience.
Ashley: I don't feel any of these things.
Matt: "What I've seen are just the visions I've had. If you wish not to go through with this, that is up to you. We can leave and be on our way. I've just come to help if we can. If we do this ritual and nothing comes of it, then you're right as rain."
Liam: Do you have any inkling of what would happen if you do nothing? Pike does nothing?
Matt: "Perhaps not now, but someday in the future, when met with a terrible choice, if you choose a darker path, that may be the window needed for the shades to take hold and begin to install in their dark interests."
Travis: Are there any elements needed for this? Water, fire?
Matt: "Well, I need some blessed water."
Laura: Which I'm totally going to go get.
Travis: Right, you did say that.
Liam: I have the lavender.
Matt: The sulfur represents the earth, the diamond represents the refraction of the moonlight, and the water is the catalyst.
Marisha: And the lavender and sulfur?
Matt: The lavender is to be burned. The sulfur represents the earth in this place, but the lavender is burned as a sort of incense that helps provide a space of the hallowed ground to present a cage for this entity so it cannot flee and come back.
Travis: We gotta find a priest.
Taliesin: I'm going to go get a pound for good measure.
Laura: They have all that shit in Syngorn. I can just go. Right? To one of the temples of the Moonweaver or something.
Matt: You could probably get most of that in Syngorn with one trip, yeah.
Laura: Solid.
Marisha: What if what you're seeing, Ogden, and I mean no disrespect in any way, is a possible outcome or future that might not ever happen?
Matt: "Then Pike will be safe, I'll look the fool, and we'll go our separate ways."
Taliesin: What's a diamond?
Laura: What's a diamond for our dear Pike? It's a good price, I say.
Ashley: I say what you say that is what I say. I say, you know what? I'm bored and I think we should do it, even if it's hogwash. No offense.
Matt: "None taken."
Marisha: And as Percy and Tary, as the science bros have said several times, at least a negative outcome is still an outcome, or something like that.
Taliesin: Something similar to it.
Sam: Yes. Yes.
Marisha: Yeah. We'll learn things for science.
Sam: For science!
Ashley: For science.
Taliesin: Exorcism for science. Why not. (laughter)
Matt: That's a good bumper sticker.
Laura: I should probably go to Syngorn before it gets too late.
Taliesin: We'll get the lavender and sulfur together.
Liam: I have lavender with my armor.
Marisha: You need a pound of it.
Liam: I have a pound of lavender with my armor. (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm sure I can dig up a pound of sulfur. I figured, let's just get double what we need, just to be safe.
Laura: Just to be safe. Do you have two pounds of lavender?
Taliesin: We need half a pound.
Ashley: Do you just tuck it in to make it smell nice?
Matt: You can cause existing lavender to bloom stronger, otherwise the lavender you create in the space will vanish once the spell is done. But yeah.
Liam: It's not in my-- I keep it in a box with my armor so the armor won't smell like shit anymore, people. It's not-- is there a problem with a man having lavender in his possession?
Taliesin: You keep your armor in a box filled with lavender?
Liam: Yes, I do.
Laura: Yeah, so it smells fresh and clean.
Taliesin: Does it smell fresh and clean?
Liam: It does now, man.
Taliesin: All right.
Liam: I've had 12 months of downtime to figure my shit out. My armor is tight now.
Taliesin: Your armor now smells like a grandmother's bathroom.
Liam: Take your guilt trips and bring them back to dad. I don't need them.
Laura: What are you talking about? I'm on my way to go give those guilt trips.
Sam: I have little potpourri bags in almost everything I own.
Taliesin: He does, it's true.
Travis: Really?
Sam: Yes.
Laura: He started leaving them around the house.
Taliesin: He calls them sachets.
Sam: Let's do it.
Matt: All right, so you guys go to bed.
Laura: I go to Syngorn.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Can I attune to my blood axe instead of the thrower before I go to sleep?
Matt: That you can.
Travis: Thank you.
Taliesin: I'm going to let the castle know I'm taking a brief, brief run up the hill and grabbing supplies for this, so letting everyone know. Grabbing a few tents.
Matt: They have supplies for you at the ready. You gather them easily from the Pale Guard. They have some tents that haven't been used for a while, you take those with you. Supplies are given. You head to Syngorn. Make an investigation check.
Laura: I should probably have brought someone with me just in case I suck at this. That's cocked. That's cocked if I've ever seen cocked.
Liam: That's good. That's a good one.
Laura: Investigation. 20.
Matt: Yeah. Within a short time, as the evening draws in, it's not a full moon, but it's still a very big moonlit night and you find in Syngorn one of the larger temples to the Moonweaver, there's a night guide there named Nusem, and it's the temple of the Pale Light. And so, as you approach him and give your request, he's like, "A jug of our blessed water, that is an unusual request. We take no money, but offerings in trade of equal value as you honestly see fit."
Travis: Give him a high-five. (laughter)
Laura: Right. Well, I don't have very much on my person.
Matt: "Whatever you feel would be a viable trade within the eyes of the Moonweaver herself."
Laura: What do I know about the Moonweaver?
Matt: Roll a religion check.
Laura: Oh god. Imma roll my moonstone dice for this.
Matt: Do it.
Laura: What am I rolling?
Matt: Religion.
Laura: A religion, jeez. 11.
Matt: 11. You know that she is the goddess of the moon, the night, and of autumn. She is known as-- she doesn't fall on the good or bad spectrum, she's generally a bit of a trickster, but however tends to be used or at least called to by young love to bless trysts to not be discovered. That's kind of the gist of what you can pick up on that roll, yeah.
Laura: All right. I have a small flask of Courage. I feel like she would appreciate this.
Matt: Takes a moment, looks at it. "I think the goddess will be pleased." And he puts it in his robes and he takes the blessed water and hands it to you. It's a small, pretty heavy-- especially when it's filled-- clay pot that is sealed at the top with multiple rounds of rope and some sort of a dark black tar-like substance that seems to seal the top and he passes it over to you and you take it.
Laura: I didn't think this part through. Thank you very much.
Liam: Strength of seven.
Laura: That's right. What is my strength? It is seven. I'm as weak as Grog is stupid. (laughter)
Laura: No, I'm just a little bit stronger. Not quite as bad.
Matt: All right, so you gather that, you find your way back without issue. We'll say without issue.
Laura: You know what, I'm just gonna pass it over to Trinket and make him hold it.
Matt: Okay, so you attach it to Trinket's armor on the top. Easy enough. So you guys eventually make your way back to the town. You guys find an evening of rest, you complete, restore your spells, you, sulfur, go ahead and make a tinkering check. This is intelligence modifier and proficiency bonus.
Taliesin: That's okay. 19?
Matt: Yeah, okay. For you, 'cause most of the sulfur that you have currently has already been put in with the salpeter and other means of creating the gunpowder, so you have to reverse-engineer a lot of it. It's not going to be pure, what you have, or at least not all of it. I mean, you have some pure sulfur still, but to get the full half-pound of it, it's gonna be a little dirty. But you manage to get it to happen. And Vax is providing the lavender. Okay. All righty. And the diamond, who's giving the diamond? Or do you have one?
Laura: I've got a diamond.
Matt: How much is it worth?
Laura: I've got multiple diamonds.
Matt: Well, choose a diamond.
Laura: I'll choose one that's worth-- in my bag of gems-- no, that's not right.
Liam: "In my-- nah. Right here in my-- nope."
Laura: All right, fine, I've got two diamonds, both worth 1,500. I don't have a thousand-gold diamond.
Matt: All right. That'll suffice.
Laura: Yeah, but it's a waste. It's okay.
Ashley: It's a waste of 500.
Matt: All righty. So.
Laura: It's Pike. It's worth it.
Matt: As the morning comes, you all awaken, you gather your materials, you assess as a pool what you have at your disposal and presenting these various elements that you've gathered before Uncle Ogden, he inspects each one very carefully, sniffing the sulfur, feeling and tasting the lavender, takes the water and brushes his fingers through it, takes the diamond and inspects it, sets it all down on the table, and goes, "Yes. This will suffice. Whenever you're ready, let's make our way to wherever you find is necessary to do this ritual."
Taliesin: I think you'll be quite pleased.
Matt: "Very well."
Laura: Keep an eye on those goods, brother.
Matt: "Trickfoots. Trickfoots? Trickfoots!" They're all right around him, and he's like, "Hello? Anyone?" Johann reaches out and touches his shoulder. "Ah! Yes, there you are. Come, we have an exorcism." And so they follow you as you grab your materials. How are you doing this? You're doing multiple trips?
Marisha: I was tree-striding us all to the base of the mountain, right?
Sam: Nope, you were gonna gas us all the way there.
Marisha: That's what I'm doing? Okay. Double-gas.
Taliesin: It's a gas.
Matt: Okay. Early morning, with the Wind Walk, you can get ten creatures, which is you seven, plus-- you put Trinket in your necklace-- Doty, which is eight, and you can take two of the gnomes if you'd like, or would you prefer to leave with the four of them and them come back for them?
Taliesin: I would say, let's get all of the gnomes up there first so they can begin setting everything up.
Laura: Yeah. I'll stay behind.
Liam: I'll go with.
Sam: I'll stay behind as well.
Marisha: No, I'm gonna take Tary.
Sam: I bid you adieu. (laughter)
Laura: Percy can stay, right?
Taliesin: I'll stay as well.
Sam: Ugh, gross.
Marisha: I'm making a trip back. I'm gonna take Tary, Pike, the gnomes, Vax, me, how many's left? That's it, right?
Taliesin: Take Doty so he can set up the tents.
Laura: I think you can take everyone except for me and Percy, right?
Taliesin: Yeah, that should work.
Travis: Yeah, please, I wanna go with Pike.
Marisha: And Grog will go.
Matt: All right, so you guys go ahead, and utilizing the--
Marisha: Why don't you guys start off on the rug?
Laura: Oh, you know what, you can tree-stride us through, and then you guys head up and then we'll just meet you up there on the broom.
Marisha: That is a good idea. That's what I'll do. I'll tree-stride some through.
Laura: Just me and Percy.
Matt: All right, easy enough to do. You've seen these woods, or the perimeter of the woods, at least, so you know vaguely a tree in the direction that Percy points you towards. So with that, you touch the edge of the Sun Tree, the exterior of it opens into a doorway, and through that-- (laughs) The trust-fall that is Percival and Vex rushing through the Sun Tree before it closes behind. You trust that they are at the destination required and will meet you there.
Marisha: I'll meet you there!
Matt: It closes.
Taliesin: Lock the door!
Matt: And with that, with the supplies gathered, the rest of you all have the spell commence, and you are able to concentrate for a minute to turn your physical form into that of a white, cloud-like mist. You watch as the gnomes do so, and this is the first time you're doing this as well, Taryon, and it's a unique experience. You're about as giddy internally that you cannot express it through word because you are a cloud of mist. But you watch as the smaller gnome mists also kind of appear and some of them start swirling around excitedly, and one of them just seems to drift.
Laura: (laughs) Oh no. Oh no.
Matt: One of the other ones comes by and cuts it off and shows the direction. (laughter)
Matt: Eventually you guys start making your way--
Laura: He's sleeping.
Travis: (snoring)
Matt: Following towards the path which Percival pointed you guys. So. This is about a six-plus-hour journey as you're coasting over the entirety of the Parchwood Forest. And it is beautiful, it's actually not too cloudy today. You've come past Winter's Crest, it's been a few weeks since.
Marisha: (sings) Butterfly in the sky.
Marisha: (sing) I can fly twice as high.
Ashley: (sing) I can fly twice as high.
Matt: (sing) I can fly twice as high.
Matt: Yeah, so you get a few dotted clouds in the sky, but for the most part there is blue visible and there is sunshine coming down, Pelor's blessing upon the land of the Alabaster Sierras. After quite some time, and having to maybe go back a few times to keep everyone together as you have four people who have never done this before who are just awed by this, you lead them towards the northeast very, very top of the Salted Bluffs of the Alabaster Sierras, and you begin to see what Percival described to you, which is a shelf-like bluff at the very top, where you see a few clusters of rock and one large rock archway that comes up right to the cliff before it drops down into the sea to the north. And this is where these offerings were left. Eventually you guys make your way there, and given the speed, you still get there before Vax and Percy do.
Marisha: Really?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Vex and Percy.
Matt: Sorry. Vex and Percy. Five years of this, and let this be a lesson for when you name your characters for your campaign. As you guys approach, you all condense back into your mist form, except for the four other clouds that are all circling and circling.
Sam: They don't know how to break it, do they? Damn it.
Matt: Eventually one of them kind of congeals and turns back and it's JB.
Marisha: I would've told them.
Matt: Well, you do now. And they all eventually come back. And you see before you, it's this clifftop flat entry with a series of rocks that jut out at certain places and rubble and some general erosion has occurred, and there at the very edge of the cliff-- and it is this cliff that shoots out over, you can look over the side and see the sea to the northeast, just above the Shearing Cliffs, you see the sunlight hitting thousands upon thousands of small, distant sparkles, as the waves catch elements of the sunlight down below. And as you come up to the edge and look down, it is a very, very long fall. Thousands and thousands and thousands of feet to rocks and ocean.
Liam: Right on the edge, looking down.
Matt: But there's a large stone archway there.
Travis: Are you wearing your armor?
Liam: I am, yeah. We left, we packed up. Some thoughts I just have inside my head.
Laura: Are me and Percy there yet?
Matt: Not yet, you guys are just making your way there. You do notice, the rock archway looks both ancient and very well-constructed, and it's impressive that even though the erosion and the nature of the strong, cliffside winds that come up there, it's kept as well as it has. You also see a number of long-rotted baskets and sacks and dried, decomposing fruits and fish bones. You can see where basically the remnants of different offerings were left up here as part of the Pelor blessing to the fishermen that walk through the Salted Bluffs. Eventually, Vex and Percival make their way up here as well, and you guys are now, full journey, about midafternoon, with three days until the full moon.
Sam: Three days to kill.
Laura: Hey. That cliff's really high.
Marisha: Well, time to pitch a tent and make it fabulous.
Laura: Let's not do the ritual site right next to that cliff.
Ashley: That's a great idea. Is there a way to move it sort of--
Laura: -- inward?
Matt: You can move back a bit, yeah. The bluff itself is maybe about 70 feet from one side to the other. It's flat. So you can move it further back towards this edge of the cliff, as opposed to being the one that's seaside.
Laura: Yeah. Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So you guys have a few days here to relax, get to know each other, ask questions and hear stories about young Pike, embarrasingly. Get to tell them of the tales of what you guys have done, and inform them from a firsthand basis of what Vox Machina has accomplished for the past few years. They all seem enraptured, JB more than anybody, and she seems to almost finish some of the tales. You get the sense that she's been very, very well-versed in what you guys have done and is genuinely invested in the stories as they happen. Anything else you guys want to accomplish in the three days in particular?
Liam: I think the twins will probably look around and make sure that nobody has been here recently other than us, or see if there's anything hinky.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Yeah, we do that. Definitely. 23.
Liam: Eight.
Matt: Okay. You do note this in the first couple days: while it's been long blown-over and destroyed and scattered, you do see elements that seem like a large nest that have been wind-scattered up here and left for a long time. And as you look through the chunks and pieces, you see bits of dried leather, flesh, and with that in mind, over the next two days, you begin to see, way off in the north, what appear to be a number of flying entities that group in clusters that kind of exist over the cliffside, down along the actual mountain edge, and occasionally have apparently made distant nests and are still maneuvering in the distance.
Laura: Do I see the type of feather it is? Can I tell what kind of creature it was?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: 32.
Matt: Using the combination of your broom and your ranger-like vision, you've encountered these creatures once before, at the Salted Bluff, but avoided them. There are small clusters of harpies that make their home here on the cliffsides by the ocean.
Laura: Yeah, they took all our horses.
Matt: Yep. They picked them apart last time you first made your way to Whitestone. So you're very careful to make sure that whatever camp you set up is camouflaged as best as possible. Since that is one of your specialties as a ranger, it's not too bad. Go ahead and make a stealth check, please. This will be your stealth check for the camp.
Laura: I can't cast Pass Without a Trace?
Matt: Not on your camp.
Laura: No, probably not.
Liam: Come on, rogue.
Matt: I'll say, for the purposes of that, no.
Laura: Do I-- (laughs) I'm scared to ask it. Okay. What am I rolling? What am I adding?
Matt: Add your stealth.
Laura: 22.
Matt: Okay. So.
Laura: But would I have used my-- what is that shit? Hide in Plain Sight? Could I have used that?
Matt: Not on a camp. For yourself, maybe. And it helps you-- it allows you-- your ability to camouflage elements of your space allows you to help and use your stealth for this whole endeavor. But two days go by, harpies don't seem to pay mind. There's a couple of close calls where a couple fly overhead, but you all see them coming and get low and tell the gnomes to go inside, and get behind the rocks, and they seem to pass without actually noticing your presence.
Laura: That's good, that's good.
Matt: Eventually, you make your way to the fourth day, and the sun begins to set. At which point, the gnomes begin to gather up with the rest of you, and Ogden hobbles his way in your direction, going-- waiting for her to cross camera. Okay. (laughs) "The time is nigh. We must prepare the ritual." And, for the purposes of this, can we bring in the battlemap that is on this side?
Sam: Battlemap? Just call it a map, Matt, don't call it a battlemap!
Matt: This side, please.
Ashley: Battlemap over there? That means there's another one over there?
Travis: There are several options, I think.
Laura: What? Here it comes. Here comes the battlemap. Here it comes.
Sam: Oh my god, what is this? There's color changes happening.
Laura: It's like the birthday cake coming out.
Matt: This way's great. (impressed noises)
Taliesin: Okay, that's a lot.
Liam: That is extra.
Sam: It's weird, the blue light makes it almost-- I can't even see what it is.
Marisha: It's hard to see with the blue light.
Matt: Is it really? That's a problem.
Sam: It's okay, we'll figure it out.
Marisha: It could be this monitor. I don't know.
Matt: All right, so. Here are the gnomes, clustered.
Sam: Matt, in preparation for this ritual, I would like to cast-- can Doty use an item that I cast magic into?
Matt: Doty cannot, I believe.
Sam: Okay. Well, then I'll cast Revivify into one of my coins and give it to Vex and say, use this on me if I fall. Oh, and also, I'll give her my five Needle Arrows that I made.
Laura: What are these?
Sam: They're just regular arrows that have a +1 to hit.
Laura: Badass.
Sam: So just a little extra accuracy.
Laura: Tary, you just keep surprising me.
Sam: You're worth it.
Ashley: With Ogden saying they're ready, can I just be alone in the tent for a second?
Matt: Sure. And actually, this is a point as well, because part of this was supposed to be hallowed ground, which requires the Hallow spell, which is a 24-hour casting period. Or, let me see the actual casting time on that. You would know this, and he would have spoken to you in advance to do this, so we'll say, yeah, Hallow, its casting time is 24 hours. The herbs and oils and incense required to do this one alone costs 1,000 gold, which the spell consumes, so that's 1,000 gold you have to mark off to do this.
Laura: That's party funds. We got you.
Matt: But you infuse this area with holy energy during this time period you guys are waiting. And doing so, this whole ground becomes hallowed. Now you get to choose a second effect of this, if you'd like, which is affected creatures can't be frightened while in the area; darkness fills the area, if that's what you want; daylight fills the area, don't know if that's going to affect the ritual or not, seeing as how it's a moonlight-based element; affected creatures have resistance to one type of damage of your choice, except for bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing; you can have energy vulnerability; silence. What would you prefer?
Ashley: I think to not be frightened.
Matt: Okay. Affected creatures cannot be frightened. So any of you, and any creatures that end up in the space, cannot be frightened. The 60-foot radius, which is pretty much most of this area, becomes Hallowed. So. As the night draws to a darkened close-- or as the day draws to a darkened close, you guys can choose your positions to prepare for this.
Laura: Oh, jeez.
Marisha: It takes Pike 24 hours to cast this?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: So we have to protect her for 24 hours, yeah?
Matt: Yeah, we'll say this happened-- this isn't the ritual, this is a different spell to prepare for the ritual. So while you were doing this was during the time in which you managed to go ahead and avoid being seen and use your stealthiness. This was in advance of it. The Hallow spell has been completed, the area has been locked in. The spell is cast. Now the final ritual is mounting. So. At this point, you're asked for some help by Ogden to move some of these rocks out of the way. You guys slowly shift this pile of rocks over here. He begins to then, with the help of JB, take the sulfur and begin to scatter it around in a circle in this opening right here. So the other two are gonna stay back.
Taliesin: I think I'm gonna want some high ground up on that hill.
Matt: Up on there? All right, so Percival gets up onto the high ground there. All righty.
Laura: I'll get on the high part on the other side.
Matt: Over here? All righty.
Travis: I would like to stay near Pike if I can.
Matt: All righty. So you want to stay near this central rock there?
Travis: Yeah, as long as I'm out of the way of the ritual. Just near Pike.
Laura: Trinket stays near Grog.
Matt: Okay, Trinket's gonna hang next to Grog. Perfect.
Liam: I'm gonna play lookout and go out towards the edge past the arch, but sink in against the wall a bit and hide.
Matt: There a bit, right there?
Liam: Into the cracks of it, yeah.
Matt: Okay. So you're hiding on this side. Poking through. Keyleth?
Marisha: I'll go by that spire closest to you.
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: Yeah, little close to the stalagtite.
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: Yeah, thank you.
Matt: Okay. There's Keyleth. Taryon?
Sam: I'm just gonna stay where the gnomes are all within 30 feet of me. So close to the action.
Matt: Okay, so pretty much where you are? Okay.
Sam: Within visual 30 feet.
Matt: Got you. So Pike, the circle puts you at about there, in the centerpiece. You watch as the sulfur is drawn around you in a wide circle. All right. JB now begins taking the water and splashing it throughout the center of the circle. She opens the jug with the help of Grog and walks around with Grog and is just taking big handfuls and splashing all the blessed water to fill in the circle between-- oh god-- where the sulfur was, in the interior of it, all around. So it soaks all the dirt, you can see it actually goes darker in color as it absorbs the liquid, and it seems you can now very, very clearly see the circle. And at this point, as the night has really hit the moonlight, the full moon is plainly visible, and that bright, bright white moonlight is making stark shadows and a very visible perspective of everything on this field. So, Pike, you're asked to stand in the center there, as right over here next to Taryon, facing you, Ogden hobbles over, looks at you. He holds the diamond in his hand. "Pike. Are you ready?"
Ashley: Two seconds. Just quietly, just sort of muttering to myself, or not to myself, to Sarenrae, I don't know what this is, I just hope that you're here and watching, and please be by my side and guide this ritual if it is your will. Okay. I'm ready.
Matt: Okay. Ogden is holding the diamond out. "Close your eyes. Concentrate on the goodness within you." He holds the diamond out in front of him and just starts chanting slowly under his breath.
Sam: Okay. I'm gonna drink the Potion of Mind Reading.
Matt: Okay, you drink the Potion of Mind Reading.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Okay. He's loudly--
Laura: What if he's stealing her soul?
Matt: He's holding this diamond forward and he's loudly speaking in a language I don't think any of you understand. (mutters gibberish)
Sam: I'm going to scan his surface thoughts, what is most on his mind in that moment.
Matt: Currently, at that moment, it sounds like a bunch of gibberish. (mutters gibberish)
Laura: What is he speaking?
Sam: As an action, if it's my turn again, I will attempt to probe deeper into the same creature's mind.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: He makes a wisdom saving throw.
Matt: Against a DC of?
Sam: 13. It's not very good.
Matt: Okay. As you focus your attention, pushing in to probe deeper, all you get is the gibberish.
Sam: More gibberish.
Matt: Natural 17, sorry.
Sam: Ugh! Waste of 1,000 bucks.
Laura: You can't try the other gnomes?
Sam: I believe that breaks the spell.
Matt: Is that what it says?
Sam: It says if I probe deeper, he makes a wisdom saving throw. If he succeeds, the spell ends. And! He's aware I was probing.
Matt: As he's chanting. (mutters gibberish, pauses, continues to mutter gibberish) Goes right back into concentrating again.
Sam: The plan failed! The plan failed!
Matt: What languages do you know?
Sam: I know Sylvan, Common, Gnome, Draconic, Undercommon.
Matt: Languages?
Taliesin: Common, Celestial, Elven.
Marisha: Common, Elven, Celestial-- sorry, Sylvan, Druidic, Primordial.
Liam: Common, Elven, and Abyssal.
Laura: Elvish, Common, Undercommon, Abyssal, and Draconic.
Ashley: Gnomish, Common, Undercommon, Dwarvish.
Travis: Come on. (laughter)
Matt: Barely Common.
Travis: I just have spoken Giant, that's it.
Matt: Okay. None of you know the language he's speaking. It just sounds like gibberish to you. Oh, and Dwarvish, because you have the belt. As he begins chanting, the diamond begins to glow faintly, a greenish color. Just very, very, on the inside, just ever-so-gently. He begins to chant louder and louder. (louder gibberish) As he does, the diamond flashes brighter and brighter green, and eventually the green coloration fades and the diamond vanishes from his hand.
Sam: Another thousand!
Matt: And he falls to his knees. (heavy breathing) "Look!" And as he points forward, towards Pike, you guys glance over and look at Pike, and you watch as from the ground around her, this black cloud-like mass begins to pour out of her legs and knees in a swirl around her person. You, Pike, look around you as it begins to fill the space around you and it begins to coalesce into this large cloud of darkness. It rumbles and gathers like a miniature thunderstorm, and you watch as the clouds begin to churn, forming dozens of screaming faces, all wailing in a discordant moan.
Sam: That don't look good. That's tall.
Matt: Roll initative. (yelling)
Laura: Oh my god, I totally thought he was gonna steal your soul and stick you in that diamond, I was like, this was a bad idea.
Matt: All righty. Who's at the top? We've got 25 to 20.
Liam: 21.
Taliesin: 22.
Travis: 20.
Ashley: This music.
Matt: All righty. 20 to 15.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18.
Marisha: 15.
Matt: 15, Keyleth.
Sam: My plan was foolproof.
Matt: 15 to ten?
Laura: You really should've tried that when he was speaking English.
Matt: Ten to five?
Laura: Common.
Marisha: Oh, sorry, eight. Sorry.
Ashley: Pike fashion.
Matt: Tary, what'd you get?
Sam: Three.
Travis: (laughs) That happens a lot for you.
Liam: If it makes you feel better, I rolled a one and used Luck.
Sam: And then got?
Liam: 21.
Sam: Oh, jesus.
Matt: Percival, you're up first.
Taliesin: Just 'cause this thing's weird, first thing I'm gonna do is I'm going to hit it with a Sharpshooter with-- where's my runs? With a Deadeye. So I'm getting advantage on it and hitting with Sharpshooter. And let's see what happens.
Sam: What if it's good?
Taliesin: With Animus.
Sam: You don't even know if it's a good guy.
Travis: Is it surrounding Pike or is it just next to Pike?
Matt: It's pseudo-surrounding her and right behind her, like it's kind of forming behind her and adjacent to her body.
Travis: What did you do?
Taliesin: That's, yeah, 30 to hit.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: That's-- my brain is made of swiss cheese. Here we go. 1d10 plus 1d6, so that's-- yeah, that's nice. So that's, oh yeah, that's really good. 26 points of damage, plus six points of psychic damage, and just because I'm irritated by this thing, I'm gonna drop some Cabal's Ruin into it. Let's just drop-- where's my pen? Here's my pen.
Sam: Where's my pen?
Sam: They took my pen!
Matt: They took my pen!
Taliesin: Let's drop five points of Cabal's Ruin into that. That's 5d6, if I recall?
Matt: 5d6 of Kids in the Hall damage, got it. (laughs)
Taliesin: So that's, ugh, three, four, five. Ten points of lightning damage.
Matt: Got you. So as you fire-- this is with Bad News, or with your--
Taliesin: This is Animus.
Matt: This is Animus, okay. So as you fire and turn it over, you look down and watch as the bullet just seems to pass through it, and then almost catch the edge of the rock here and splinter off, and doesn't seem to affect it directly at all.
Taliesin: The lightning and the psychic didn't do anything?
Matt: Nope. You watch as the energy kind of crackles and dissipates amongst the rock.
Sam: Wait, no damage, it took?
Liam: Best you can tell.
Travis: Doesn't seem to have affected it.
Sam: Oh shit.
Taliesin: I'm going to-- I don't know what to do.
Marisha: You just shot at it, you didn't do anything?
Taliesin: I just shot at it. I'm going to attempt to Hex it with a bonus action. Does it catch?
Matt: Okay. You go ahead and attempt to Hex it. As you focus on it, nothing seems to hit.
Marisha: Including a Hex?
Matt: The Hex has no effect, and you don't sense any connection with this creature, you don't see any of the smoke or shadow surrounding it. The Hex has no effect.
Sam: Maybe it's not there.
Taliesin: Maybe it's an illusion. I'm going to-- since I don't have much left, I burnt a little bit, I'm just I'm going to reload, hunker down, and watch what happens. I'm also going to watch the gnomes, all of them. Are any of them doing weird shit? That's where I'm gonna use the rest of my turn, to just look at the gnomes and see what they're doing.
Matt: Okay. Right now, the two other gnomes are just waiting off to the side, watching aghast, and you watch as Ogden is slowly, with his staff, backing up, hand out, looking freaked out, backing into Taryon. Look over and noticing his presence, and then focusing back on the horrible thing that's surrounding Pike right now, and he looks genuinely frightened. Is that your turn?
Taliesin: That's my turn.
Matt: Okay. Percival's done. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Before I decide, what is the thing doing to Pike? What am I looking at?
Matt: It hasn't had its turn yet. You're watching this 12-foot-tall swirling, almost slow-moving tornado of black cloud and smoke that is starting to form all these horrible faces, forming this cacophony of sounds and screaming and moaning.
Liam: Okay. I'm gonna click the Boots of Haste. I'm going to flip out the wings. And then I'm going to fly-- not through, because I don't wanna go by the thing, but around towards Keyleth and around towards Pike and grab Pike and fly her up next to Percival.
Matt: Fly her up next to Percival? Okay. So you try and pick her up. Make a strength check, 'cause she is a very heavily armored tiny little--
Ashley: Tank?
Matt: Tank of a gnome.
Laura: Strength check.
Liam: I don't make those. 17.
Matt: 17. You do, and it slows your movement to half when you're carrying her, but you manage to pick her up. As you do so, you watch as the form sends this pseudopod of a screaming face and arm swinging out towards you. That is a 17.
Liam: No.
Matt: You just pull her out of reach as it swings out in your direction. For the rest of your movement, you pull her just up to the edge of the rock, there, and you can set her down if you want. Oh god! Is that your turn?
Liam: Yeah, that's the end.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: Gonna find out what this thing is, get up close and personal. I would like to Rage. Just charge right at the thing that was towering over my buddy Pike.
Matt: Right there. You come up right to the side of it, and you can look up and see it now. It's forming this wall of screaming faces at you, and a lot of them are watching as-- all of them are facing Pike as she disappears, and all of a sudden, all at once, a hundred faces go (shhhp) to you, and (gurgling growl). What are you doing?
Travis: All eyes on me. I swing at it. The first one regular.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 28.
Matt: 28 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: We'll see what happens now. 24 points of damage.
Matt: 24 points of damage. As you rush up angrily, you swing your axe, with additional?
Travis: Necrotic, four.
Matt: All right, 28. All right, cool. You swing, and as your axe cleaves through the side of it, you watch as parts of it break open, sending chunks of it flying, and the creature (shrieks) seems to scream in pain from the impact.
Travis: Nice. It screamed in pain from the impact.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: So the second one, can I make it-- we don't know how high this thing is. Can I do a Great Weapon Master for the second one?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: Okay. Minus five. That's gonna miss. That's 18.
Matt: 18. You hit, go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Oh, really? 18 hit? Okay. Shit. 36. 36 points of damage.
Laura: Did you add your necrotic?
Travis: Nope. Sorry, I haven't used the blood axe in a while. 39 points of damage. Three points of necrotic.
Matt: That Great Weapon Master, man.
Travis: I know. That's why I wanted the blood axe back. Missed it.
Matt: You swing with the second strike. This time, you watch as some of the faces implode at the impact, and you see a flash of dark matter just get strung out about three or four feet from it as you strike through, and it (shrieks) gives a horrible scream in pain as it does so.
Travis: Okay, that's it. No bonus action.
Matt: You're not going Frenzied?
Travis: No.
Matt: Okay, that ends Grog's turn. It is now the creature's turn. It's going to move, moving upwards and trying to catch up to Pike. But, because of the nature of the Hallowed ground, it gets that far and then stops and is held in place.
Travis: Do I get an opportunity?
Matt: You do. Go ahead and roll an attack.
Travis: Can I make it Reckless?
Matt: Mm-hm. Actually, I think Reckless has to be on the first attack of your round.
Travis: Okay, that's fair enough. Shit, I picked it up. I think it was a seven. So 23.
Matt: Yeah, you hit.
Travis: Okay. That's a 12 again. 26.
Matt: 26. All right. With it being downed by that movement, it moves in and makes its way towards Ogden. Ogden, who is backed up against you at this point, Taryon, you watch as the spectacles-- you push him forward? (yelps) As it swings forward, and you see two of the mouths reach out to attempt to-- that's a three. (laughs) Both snap, and the old gnome would've been bit, except you pushed him forward, and he kind of like catches himself, and both of them miss him by but an inch, and he turns around, glancing at it, still has his hand forward like, "No!" as he's clutching his staff at his side to keep his standing. That finishes the creature's turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I-- what is JB doing?
Matt: JB is over here by Trinket, and is currently seeing this whole thing occur, and is about to go ahead-- it's not her turn yet, but she's going to probably-- looks like she's heading that direction to dart behind the rock.
Laura: Okay. Trinket's gonna go run at-- I'm gonna Hunter's Mark it if I can.
Matt: As you concentrate, Hunter's Mark finds no purchase on the creature.
Laura: Fucker. All right, Trinket runs up. I have a feeling this is-- and he is going to-- I don't know, do I get one attack and Trinket gets one attack? Is that how it can work? Or he only gets a bonus attack if I take an attack.
Matt: You either give Trinket the full round of attacks, and then you get one attack as a bonus action, or you get two attacks and then Trinket gets a bonus action attack.
Laura: Okay. And I already tried to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: You did, as a bonus action.
Laura: So I'm gonna have Trinket attack him down there.
Matt: Okay, so two attacks from Trinket. Go for it.
Travis: C'mon, Trink.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay, one is a 25, and the other one is a 19.
Matt: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Oh, that's not as very good. Nine for his bite.
Matt: Nice.
Laura: And then his claw-- oh, come on, Trinket. 12 for-- no, 11 for his claws.
Matt: 20 points of damage from Trinket, not bad. Trinket rushes out and bites into the smoky faces and pulls back, and you watch as some of the shadow gets yanked with the teeth and then disperses and then vanishes in the air. And then turns around, big raking claw, and part of its midsection shifts with the impact and has to reform.
Travis: (whispers) What is this thing?
Matt: You gonna stay where you are?
Laura: I'm gonna stay where I am, and I wanna keep eyes on-- ooh, I wonder if you have to be in the circle to do damage. Fuck.
Marisha: Was Percy not in the circle before?
Laura: No.
Marisha: That's interesting.
Sam: But Groggy-poo was.
Marisha: And Trinket was.
Laura: I'm gonna stay out. I'm gonna keep eyes on JB to see what she's doing.
Matt: Okay. That finishes your turn?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Am I in the circle of what I know-- Pike?
Matt: You are-- you have to move five feet further in to be within the sulfur and water line.
Marisha: Okay, hearing Vex figure this out, I'm gonna step forward just a little bit into the sulfur line, and then I'm gonna cast Moonbeam right overtop of him at fourth level.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And see what happens. Moonbeam. So a shapechanger makes its saving throw with disadvantage, and if it fails, it instantly reverts to its original form. If it's a shapechanger. But I don't really know, I'm just guessing.
Matt: Okay. Five-foot radius. Yeah, so you can-- it basically encompasses the whole size of the creature. So you watch as, in the middle of the sky, the full moon that's partially almost at its zenith, you watch as almost a secondary moon appears next to it for a moment, and a single column of bright moonlight hits the ground.
Marisha: Kinda harnessing the moon, you know?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, moon goddess shit? Yeah.
Matt: And it's illuminating the creature from the inside, and where the smoke is, you can now see there are portions of it that are burning on the inside, like there's small holes being dug through it as the beam continues to focus on it. Are you gonna-- you can still move the rest of your movement, or you can stay where you are.
Marisha: I'll kind of shift towards the front of the column, so I have the column behind my back.
Matt: Right there?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. You leap over some of the leftover sacks and offerings there and put your back against the column. All right, perfect. That brings us to the gnomes' turns. These guys, you watch as Johann and Astra just move behind the side of the rock. They're too entranced to look away, but you guys seem to have this handled, so they're watching from the side. You watch as Ogden begins to-- oh god!-- he hobbles back behind you, Taryon, and goes like, "Excuse me!" and pushes alongside you to move behind the rock here.
Sam: I get an attack of opportunity. (laughter)
Matt: The creature does, though. And (whoosh) just misses over the top of his head. The gnome's size is too small, and it keeps missing him by about a foot. And he backs up, going, (heavy breathing), holding onto his staff. That ends his turn, and you watch as JB rushes over behind this rock here and starts shouting up, "Ogden, are you okay?" That's going to end her turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. Am I able to get back into the circle? How far am I?
Matt: You can, yes.
Ashley: All right.
Matt: I'll ask you to make an acrobatics check, 'cause you're having to leap down from these large five-foot stone drops.
Ashley: Okay, okay, okay. Come on, Gil. Don't fuck me, Gil. You fucked me, Gil. Four.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: So you leap down this one. As you leap down to there, as you hit the ground, it's just too much height with all the heavy armor and all the chaos going on, that when your foot hits, the rock sprains your ankle, for a second it kind of folds to the side, and you fall down to one knee. I'll say with that, your movement's going to get you right there. You're not in the circle currently.
Ashley: All right. Then I will cast Spirit Guardians into the circle.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: And I will have them attack.
Matt: Okay. Spirit Guardians here.
Travis: I don't think we've seen that before.
Laura: I know, right? I think she's done Spirit Guardians one other time.
Travis: Okay. Sorry.
Ashley: It's okay.
Matt: So you're designating them as the creature, their speed is halved. When the creature enters the area or starts its turn there, it has to make a wisdom save or take the damage, right? That's how it works. Okay. So. That ends your turn, Pike, as you cast the spell. There you watch as a series of small, ghostly divine-focused creatures appear on the horizon of the circle, all looming towards this dark entity. That ends your turn, Pike?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: All righty. Taryon.
Sam: Oh god. All right. I whip out my String of Beads and I pull off a bead and I will throw it down at the creature's feet, just behind it if possible, so it and only it is in the cube of ten feet.
Matt: Okay. Let me see here.
Liam: (whispers) Where does he get all these wonderful toys?
Sam: Money! Lots and lots of money.
Matt: Okay. The bead hits the ground and detonates, and you watch as there's a flash of arcane energy in the sphere. As it encompasses, it doesn't seem to affect the creature.
Sam: So there's just a big spherical ball there with nothing inside of it? Or does the creature look like it's inside of it?
Matt: It looks like it's partway in and partway out and unaffected by the bead.
Sam: Holy shit.
Travis: You're just losing money left and right.
Laura: Oh man.
Sam: This is an expensive trip. (laughter)
Sam: Well then, I will do the heroic thing. As my bonus action, click my Boots of Speed, and run. Just sort of run behind that rock with the gnomes and try to position Doty in between me and the beast.
Matt: Do you move Doty forward?
Sam: Just between us. Not forward, just in a guarding position.
Matt: Okay, there you go. So Doty just. "Tary." All right, so that's all Doty does, is just get ready?
Sam: He can't do a separate attack, can he? No.
Matt: Yeah, he can.
Sam: Oh, he can?
Matt: He acts entirely different than you, yeah.
Sam: Oh jeez. I'm not used to having these things. Then yes, I'll just have him take a swing at the thing, a bash.
Matt: Okay, he can make a bash and a headbutt.
Sam: He can make two attacks? This guy's awesome!
Laura: Wait, he gets a full action and his companion animal gets to attack?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Motherfucker.
Sam: We're friends.
Matt: Also, how helpful has Taryon been in comparison to Vex in the past?
Sam: Very, I would say.
Laura: Well, Tary or Doty?
Matt: Both.
Sam: All right, Doty's going to make two attacks, then.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: Bash and a headbutt. What do I do? I roll something. I roll a natural 20 on bash.
Travis: Doty got a natural 20.
Sam: That is nine points of damage.
Matt: Awesome.
Sam: And then going in for the headbutt, one.
Matt: Doty swings forward, fist goes through, you watch as the creature (gurgling yelp), and then, as it's recoiling, leans forward and gives it a big old hefty rune-covered Doty headbutt to the creature, and it seems impacted by it. Doty? Not in the circle.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Doty's not in the circle.
Matt: Doty's just outside of the circle.
Sam: But still caused damage?
Matt: Apparently.
Sam: What is this magic?
Marisha: What was the bead thing?
Matt: That ends Taryon's turn. Percy.
Taliesin: I'm watching all this and highly confused. I'm going to turn on my boots, and I'm going to run down towards the creature, and I'm going to attack it with my silver-laced sword and see what happens.
Matt: Okay, you rush forward at this side, you come up to it with your silver rapier.
Taliesin: And I'm taking a swing.
Travis: Come on, buddy. See how the other side lives.
Taliesin: No, it's okay, 'cause this is pretty good. 17.
Matt: 17. That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: Is it piercing?
Laura: Slashing damage?
Sam: You have to be close to it, like you have to hit it with your fists.
Taliesin: Eight points of damage.
Matt: Okay. You watch as you go in to stab it with the rapier, as you do it, (shrieks), it retracts and you can see parts of it kind of carve open from the impact.
Taliesin: I'm going to take another stab.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: It's a 24.
Matt: 24, that hits.
Taliesin: I'm also going to, out of curiosity, run d6 worth of Cabal's Ruin through it, just to see what happens. So that's-- wow, that really-- that's 14 points of piercing damage and two points of electrical damage.
Matt: Okay, cool. As you stab through with the sword, electrical energy coursing through, you stab through, watch as it carves a big hole in the side of its smoky physicality, and it kind of shrieks in pain and recoils, now some of the faces turning towards you, noticing the impact.
Taliesin: The shock definitely did a thing?
Matt: The impact did, yeah, you watch the weapon hit and you watch the shock burst off and the creature reacted to it.
Taliesin: Okay! Just for fun, I'm taking a third hit. I'm gonna take a third shot at him. And burn, yup. No, a third slice and I'm gonna add, just for fun, let's do one, two, three, let's do four more points of Cabal and see what happens.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So.
Matt: Third strike, you swing through heavily and you watch--- How much damage is that?
Taliesin: That's 15 points of piercing damage.
Matt: 15 points of piercing damage.
Taliesin: Seven, eight, nine.
Matt: With?
Taliesin: And 13 points of electrical.
Matt: Nice. Okay. You swing with one wide arc, and as you do, it leaves this large spray of electrical energy that is left behind in pulses after the blade has already passed through. It's almost like a lagging slow-mo burst of electrical energy behind the blade as it swings, and as it does you watch as the smoke dissipates and retracts from the impact, screaming, and small faces you see turn to black mist from where the blade passed through.
Taliesin: Yeah, and I'll take three more hits really quick. I'm going to burn an Action Surge. Just do three more real quick. Just going for it. I'll roll them all at once.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So. That's-- Yeah, that all hits. It's a 11, a 13 and a 17. They all-- they all hit.
Matt: Yeah. So roll damage three times.
Taliesin: That's 11 points.
Matt: 11.
Taliesin: 13 points.
Matt: 13.
Taliesin: And ten points.
Matt: Ten points! In a series of Zorro-type slashes, you just carve through. And you watch as it's starting to break apart and dissipate. The screams went from aggressive to now (groaning). This, like, deep sucking inhale. It looks like it's starting to look pretty rough.
Taliesin: This is very therapeutic.
Matt: That ends your turn. All right, Vax. You're up.
Liam: Okay. I'm gonna shoot up and do a small little loop-de-loop and then slam down right next to Percival. Right up against it, so that I'm in a flanking position opposite Doty.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: And then dagger-dagger-dagger with a little bit of Smite.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: With a little bit of Smite.
Liam: First one is a 33.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Second one is a natural 20. Third one is a 30.
Matt: All right, all three hit. Second one's a crit.
Liam: Yup.
Matt: So, Sneak Attack for the first hit?
Liam: Right.
Ashley: Get 'im.
Liam: Okay, one-- and this is Smite on this. That one's a seven-- Can I put the Smite on any attack I want?
Matt: Yeah, you can put it on the crit.
Liam: I'll save it for the crit, then. Yeah, seven, 11, 17, 19--
Matt: Yeah, the ridiculousness of paladins. Oh, a crit? I'm gonna pump a Smite into it. Oops!
Liam: 24, 27, 33, plus the psychic damage. 33 plus-- 41. 48 for the first hit.
Matt: 48! For the first hit! Shit, man!
Travis: That's not even the crit!
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Rogues.
Liam: Second attack. Four plus one is five. Plus the psychic damage-- Is he a fiend? Is he getting anything extra from this?
Matt: No.
Liam: Okay. Five plus eight is 13, 14, 15, 14, so 28. 29 for the second hit. Then the Smite.
Laura: Do you double it because it's a crit?
Liam: I did.
Matt: Okay, 29? Then, third hit.
Liam: Oh, wait! I didn't-- Hold on. Hold on. four.
Laura: Is eight.
Liam: Four plus-- There's no bonus. So it was four plus-- then I got an eight and a two, right? It was an eight and a two?
Matt: 18 times two, 46. Plus one.
Liam: Plus 12, 14-- Yeah, that gets me there. 28. Doubles to 28.
Laura: Plus one. 29.
Matt: 29. That's right, you got it.
Liam: And then one little--- Then one little, itty-bitty--
Matt: Little, boop! poke in the side.
Liam: For four points.
Matt: Four points, all righty. As you rush down and stab it in the back, as the blade hits and flashes, with just the blast, the creature (groans), and you carve down, and it feels like you're cutting through a cloud, through air-- but you watch it separate around as the blade carves down. You come up with the second swipe, this time hitting directly. There's a flash of divine energy as the burst goes off. You watch the creature take the impact and separate slowly after where it hit, the clouds being pushed back by like a slow-motion blast of the divine energy you pulse through. Third strike, and you swing past and you see it catch the edge of the side (growls). Reacts to it slowly, but it seems to be having an effect.
Liam: Feathers. Feathers.
Matt: Feathers rest to the ground. Okay, Grog. You're up.
Travis: Frenzied Rage. Reckless. Great Weapon Master. All up on him.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Travis: All right.
Sam: Everything.
Liam: What's the plan? Rush it!
Taliesin: Get her!
Matt: That is your whole plan, huh? Get her! Scientific.
Travis: No, 30 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Three plus seven.
Taliesin: This'll end well.
Travis: (sighs) 11.
Liam: Do the thing, Grog.
Travis: 28 on the first one? No. 38 on the first one, because of Great Weapon Master.
Matt: 38 on the first one.
Travis: 27.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Minus five. Okay. Ten, 24, 34, 38. Four points necrotic. 38.
Matt: Okay. Ooh.
Travis: Third one--
Matt: Third hit.
Travis: 30 minus five. 25. 10, 24, 26, 36.
Sam: Is that four hits north of 25?
Matt: It's three hits. And that's over 100 damage in one round.
Marisha: Wow!
Sam: That would have just straight-up killed me.
Ashley: That's like-- yeah-- oh no.
Matt: As you swing up and make three giant axe blows, you watch as each cleave is carving a line through this creature. And as you hit with each axe blow, you watch as its faces begin to disappear in smoke. It's almost like with each blow it's beginning to lose physicality in the world and it's beginning to shrink in size. It's still wailing and screaming in your face, but the impacts are making an effect.
Travis: Nice.
Matt: That ends your turn, Grog. The creature is now going to go ahead and swing in a wide circle in its desperation. It's going to go ahead and cause this--
Marisha: Top of its turn?
Matt: Top of its turn, yeah.
Marisha: It takes 4d10 of damage.
Matt: Well it has to make a save. All right. So what it does is the moonbeam hits down on it, and you watch as it seems to not really react to it. Like it burns a little bit and you see some kind of sparkling white energy, but it's not reacting directly from it at the moment. It seems to be like generally trying to avoid it but it's not seemingly taking any damage from it. Now, it's going to go ahead and do a big sweeping strike to try and hit everything around it. You watch as these pseudopods begin to spin like a buzzsaw in the vicinity. What's your AC, Grog?
Travis: Advantage against me, too.
Matt: Yeah, that's right!
Travis: 17 is my AC.
Matt: Misses you. Against Trinket.
Travis: With advantage it misses me?
Sam: With advantage!
Matt: Yeah. What's Trinket's AC?
Laura: Oh-- 21.
Matt: 21. Misses. Against Vax-- That's a natural one. And against Percy, that is a-- What's your AC?
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: That misses.
Travis: What?!
Laura: What?!
Matt: Oh, and against Doty as well. Doty-- What's Doty's AC?
Sam: 12.
Matt: Misses.
All: What?
Matt: It spins around and it manages to just have no effect on any of you. You move out of the way, dodge, it misses you, it just passes right through Doty with no effect.
Travis: Bad show, mate.
Matt: That brings us now to Vex's turn.
Laura: Has he hit anybody yet?
All: No.
Sam: He's literally the worst.
Matt: He's literally the worst creature that's ever existed.
Marisha: Is it safe to like over my earpiece say like--
Matt: Wait 'til your turn.
Marisha: Oh. Sorry.
Matt: It's okay. What're you doing, Vex?
Laura: I mean, if I'm looking at that creature, does it look like an illusion? Does it look like something we've seen before? Does it look like it's really there?
Matt: You can make an investigation check to see, you might have to go closer.
Laura: I'll come down closer.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I'll have Trinket attack for my bonus. But I want to just--
Matt: Trinket has to attack as part of your attack action. Wait, let me double-check that.
Laura: Trinket gets my bonus.
Matt: I know, I changed that. That's how it used to be. So yes, you can do that. You can do that.
Laura: Okay. So I can have him attack and then watch?
Matt: You can have him attack and then watch him.
Laura: I want to watch while he's attacking and see. And like make an investigation check.
Matt: Okay. Okay. Have Trinket go ahead and attack.
Liam: Voyeur.
Laura: Yeah. I want to watch! Ooh! That's a good one. 27.
Matt: That hits! Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Okay. 12.
Matt: 12! Is it a bite or a claw?
Laura: That was a bite.
Matt: Trinket reaches out and bites and snatches through and you watch as the black smoke dissipates in the area and screams again in his face as he pulls back. You're using your action to investigate?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Roll an investigation check.
Laura: 24!
Sam: What just happened?
Matt: Pardon me, buddy.
Sam: Trinket just became a ghost.
Marisha: What's going on?
Taliesin: Don't! No! No! No!
Ashley: Don't you look, Travis!
Sam: Do it, Travis!
Taliesin: Travis Willingham, you're going to get in big trouble!
Ashley: Step back! Step back!
Sam: (laughs) Draw dick-butts all over it
Matt: All right!
Sam: Trinket's a ghost!
Matt: That ends-- that's the end of your turn, right?
Laura: That's the end of my turn. I moved-- that was my full movement to get up there?
Matt: No, you can move.
Laura: I want to move over back towards the edge of that rock towards me. I mean, this way--
Matt: This way?
Laura: Sorry.
Matt: This way?
Laura: Yes. Closer to the gnomes.
Matt: Closer to the gnomes. Okay. Well, since I left my-- imagine you're flying for this one. I left my pillars at Force Grey. So. I'm going to have those back.
Laura: Oh! Am I flying?
Matt: I figured you were since you usually are. Unless you don't want to.
Laura: No no no. I'm not flying right now.
Matt: Okay. Then you're back by the gnomes. All right, cool. That ends Vex's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Laura: And I can I say anything over my head-- My earring? Without the gnomes hearing me, I want to go, it's not real. It's not real. They're fucking us.
Sam: (gasps) The gnomes are?
Matt: Okay. Keyleth. Your turn.
Ashley: Motherfuckers.
Sam: Kill them!
Marisha: What?
Laura: Play it out. Just play it out.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: Play it out?
Sam: Play it out.
Marisha: Okay, I want to step forward a little bit.
Matt: Okay. You step forward a little bit.
Marisha: Can I make out details of the space? Of the faces that are in it?
Matt: There are multiple faces. They're all different creature faces. They all look to be humanoid. They're all shouting and screaming and shifting and roiling inside.
Marisha: Can I do a perception check to see if I recognize either Pike's face in there or Ogden's face or any of the gnomes' face? Do I recognize any faces?
Matt: Sure. This would be your action to do that, but yeah.
Marisha: My whole action?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Great, 17.
Matt: Okay. Glancing at it, all the faces seem relatively blank and it's mostly the same face over and over and over again. So there's no real variation to them.
Marisha: Okay. And that's my whole action?
Matt: That's your whole action, yeah.
Marisha: Okay. That's my action.
Matt: Okay. So at this point, the gnomes over here are just staying where they are. You watch as Ogden takes another hobbled step back past Taryon and goes, "Protect me!" and puts his hand up to you and kind of hides partially behind you, Taryon. JB stays there. She seems relatively safe and watches as Vex approaches and is like (heavy breathing) and moves along the side of the rock. Pike, your turn.
Travis: The gnomes aren't doing anything?
Matt: No.
Ashley: Well, that's a turn of events. Okay. Am I close to-- Who's the closest gnome? Can I get to them?
Matt: The closest gnome to you would probably be Astra. She's over here.
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to--
Travis: (whispers) What if they did all of this to get us away from Whitestone?
Ashley: Go up to her.
Matt: So you walk up to Astra. Most of your movement there as you back up.
Ashley: And I'm going to put my mace up to her throat and say--
Sam: (whispers) They're robbing the bakery right now!
Ashley: (laughs) Yeah! How many pastries did you steal?
Marisha: How many fucking pastries did they take?
Ashley: I'm going to say, what the fuck is going on? I know this is not real.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Sam: To whom?
Marisha: Come on, Pike!
Laura: To mustachio and his wife.
Laura: Oh, I thought that was a natural 20.
Ashley: Where's intimidation? 11.
Matt: 11? As soon as you put the mace she goes, "Pike! What are you doing?! Pike! The creature's still alive!" And she points over in that direction, she's not paying much mind to your threat.
Ashley: Damn it. Okay. (laughs) Oh, shit.
Matt: You still have your bonus action.
Ashley: Yeah, I know. Can I-- How accurate can I be with a Guiding Bolt? Is that dependent on--
Matt: You can be pretty accurate with a Guiding Bolt, but Guiding Bolt is an action.
Ashley: Oh shit, yeah. Fuck. I'm gonna drop the mace on her foot.
Matt: Okay, so this is less of an attack and more of dropping it on her foot. As it hits, we'll say, 'cause you dropped it on it, she goes (yelps) and she picks her foot off, pulling it out from underneath and it's-- She's wearing a light leather boot. It hurt her toe pretty bad. She's like (sounds of pain) and Johann's like, "Astra, are you okay?" "Pike, be careful!" He's kind of helping her. Does that end your turn?
Ashley: I guess so!
Matt: All right, Taryon, you're up.
Marisha: So wait, that's Johann? Or what's-his-name and his wife?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Where the fuck is JB?
Laura: They're over by me.
Matt: She's right there.
Sam: Are JB and Ogden together?
Matt: JB is over on-- like ten feet to your left. Ogden's just right next to you, almost holding onto your-- the back of your leg for protection. And he's like, "Protect me!"
Sam: Sure. Sure.
Laura: Hands up, motherfucker.
Marisha: Yeah, right? What's that? What is that?
Laura: I know! He's been holding his hand up like woo.
Sam: I'm just gonna break free from Ogden.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And I'm going to whip out another bead and throw it right at him. (laughter)
Travis: Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes!
Taliesin: That's a good call.
Sam: It's a dexterity save. 15
Matt: That is a no. That is a no-no-no.
Sam: Oh, yeah. Oh yeah.
Matt: That was a natural four to an addled old man. All right, so roll 5d4 force damage.
Sam: Okay. Four, one, four, three. Oh shit, I should probably be adding these. That's nine. That's 12.
Matt: As you throw the bead down, it bursts in a flash of energy and light, and you watch as Ogden's staff just gets fucking thrown 25 feet in the air from the blast. He's like (yells). He falls on his side and gets back up, and you see him now encased in this sphere of force. Immediately this smoke creature vanishes.
Sam: I'll say, Doty! Carry him to the edge of the cliff.
Marisha: Oh shit!
Matt: Can Doty-- I don't think Doty can move the sphere, can he?
Sam: The sphere weighs one pound, regardless of what is inside of it.
Matt: Okay!
Travis: Really? That's fucking amazing. Are you serious?
Liam: Gently!
Travis: How big can the sphere get?
Sam: It's ten by ten. I mean, encircled--
Matt: Yeah, it's a hamster ball.
Ashley: (groans) I'm so mad!
Travis: You can carry him to the cliff!
Laura: Maybe it was just to steal a thousand-gold diamond. Maybe it was just to steal the diamond.
Matt: He's just like-- at this point, he goes, "You killed it! That's amazing! Pike is saved!" The sphere gets picked up. "Wait! Huh?"
Laura: I pick JB up by her wrist.
Matt: Okay, she's just starting to dart off and you grab her by the wrist. Go ahead and make a grapple check. Make an athletics check.
Laura: Oh no. Athletics, huh? Eight.
Matt: Eight? You go to grab for her wrist, and as you grab she wrenches out of it and goes darting this way.
Liam: I'm blasting off after her.
Marisha: I'm going to go after Johann and Astra. And can I do an Entangle spell around her?
Matt: What's the DC, or the save on that?
Marisha: I haven't done an Entangle in a second-- give me a second.
Matt: I have it right here. It is a strength check against your spell DC.
Marisha: Beat a 20, bitch!
Matt: So! You watch as they both turn invisible. And then all of a sudden a bunch of vines go (crinkles) around a gnome-like form. (cheering)
Laura: I'm gonna Grasping Vine JB as she starts to run off.
Marisha: Do it! Do it! Do it! Ranger!
Matt: She gets some distance. What's the Grasping Vine--
Travis: Is Ogden the one in the sphere?
Laura: Spell save 15.
Matt: 15, dexterity. Natural 20.
Laura: Motherfucker!
Matt: You put the Grasping Vine out and she just-- (heavy breathing).
Taliesin: Okay, forget this.
Liam: Wait-wait! I already said I'm winged and Hasted, I'm already there! She can't go anywhere.
Matt: I know, all right. So as you aim, you watch as a raven swoops down.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Taliesin: I'm going to keep watching.
Sam: Oh, Matt is so fucking good.
Ashley: Fuck.
Liam: 19.
Matt: Natural one.
Laura: Yes!
Matt: You grab her and lift her off the ground and she's now screaming as you pick her up into the sky, the moonlight still kind of casting down. Doty is now carrying this sphere and walking towards the edge over here.
Liam: Yeah, I'll take her 100 feet up and give her a good view.
Matt: Okay, she's breathing super, super fast. And at this point you see, as he's walking over to the edge, Ogden's like, "You-- Look! You saved everyone! Good job!" (laughter)
Sam: He's committed to this bit!
Taliesin: Don't overcommit! Don't overcommit! No!
Sam: So you rush over towards him, as Doty's got him maybe ten feet from the edge and now you can see as he's like, "Oh! Pike?"
Ashley: Oh, Doty's not finished walking yet. Doty, keep going.
Matt: "Pike, Pike. We have-- You have been saved from the darkness of a family line of terrible curses."
Laura: Dicks! Motherfuckers!
Matt: He's walked to the very edge of the cliff. "Pike, Pike, Pike, Pike, what would Sarenrae think? What would Sarenrae think?"
Travis: He's so lively all of a sudden.
Matt: Yeah, more so than you've ever seen him. He's been crotchety and immobile this whole time, and now you watch him up against the glass and he's standing up straight, and he's like, "Pike, Pike, seriously, it's fine. It's fine. What would Sarenrae think?"
Taliesin: I'm gonna walk below the cliff and just stand on the cliff and start knocking on the ball on the other side and waving so he can get a nice view of the drop down.
Matt: "Oh. No-no-no! Seriously, it's fine. We're family."
Ashley: Ogden?
Matt: "Yes?"
Ashley: Where's the diamond?
Matt: "I-- it was used in the spell!"
Ashley: No, it wasn't.
Matt: "The spell that we used to summon the creature."
Ashley: It's-- Ogden. That was bullshit.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Ashley: God damn it!
Travis: Does his fear grant advantage?
Matt: I'd say you have advantage, given this circumstance.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: Given this circumstance, you definitely have advantage.
Ashley: 15.
Matt: He goes, (sighs), and holds the diamond out in front.
Ashley: Is he still in the ball?
Sam: Yeah, he's still in the ball.
Ashley: Push him out further.
Sam: Doty, just hold him over the edge.
Matt: Doty goes and-- "Tary." "No-no-no!" He's now looking down at the sphere of force below him and looking down to the waves crashing at the very, very small, distant shore. "You can have the diamond back! It's just--"
Sam: What's the play here? What's the game? What were you trying to get? Not that diamond. There's more to it than that.
Matt: "Look. We don't have a lot. You have plenty. We hear of all the great deeds you've done. All the dragons you've killed. All the vast amounts of money and gold you've procured the past couple years of your adventures. And we get sent a measly sum! A small hint of nothing but a paltry pinch."
Laura: She didn't have to send you anything, you dick!
Matt: "She didn't! And yet, we came to offer you nothing but a fantastical story of redemption and the healing of a family, and you got to know your cousin who you've not spoken to since you left."
Ashley: I trusted you. I put myself out there and I trusted you.
Matt: The sphere dissipates. It's been a minute. And he goes (screams) and just plummets off the side.
Taliesin: I was technically right below it.
Laura: That's true.
Taliesin: I'm gonna make a grab.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: I was kind of prepared for this.
Liam: I'm way up high and I say, I don't know what's going on, but it does not look good here. (laughter)
Taliesin: Dex saving throw? You know. I'm going to re-roll that.
Sam: What? You can just do that?
Taliesin: I'm going to use a Resolve. Yeah. It's the exact same roll.
Matt: What is it?
Taliesin: Dex saving roll-- it's 11.
Matt: (whiff) (screams)
Liam: Wait, in that second I can go 500 feet in six seconds, so can I blast down towards the cliff and dump her ten feet and keep going?
Travis: That's going to be the most gnarly drop-off ever.
Matt: Not safely?
Liam: Safely?
Ashley: She's gonna break some legs. it's okay.
Liam: Safely? Safely? I will go (whoosh) and let her take a little damage and hit the bottom. You know, I'm not gonna--
Matt: Where are you dropping her? You're over here right now, you picked her up and went over this way.
Liam: I can go like (plane sounds). I'll take a little turn up and let her-- she can take some damage.
Taliesin: She can take some damage.
Liam: Or we could let the dude die, but I'm already doing it.
Matt: She tumbles. Stops about five feet from the edge. She's still hyperventilating.
Liam: I've got 400 more feet to go.
Matt: You dive down. He's just like (screams). Just tumbling down as he falls faster towards the cliff rocks and you can just barely see the waves crashing from the moonlight that's hitting him as you're just in a full-on raven dive towards it.
Liam: Bullet train, baby.
Laura: Oh God!
Marisha: Can I take her and Grasping Vine and throw her into my entanglement and just keep all of them entangled?
Matt: Grasping Vine is a concentration spell, you'll lose the entanglement if you do it.
Laura: That's okay. I'm going to use the Rope of Entanglement that I have and use it on her.
Matt: And with that, without even really much of a resistance from her, she's tangled up in the rope, and falls on the ground on her side. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Saving throw? Okay.
Matt: Actually, for this in particular, because it's less of a reaction, this is a-- make a dexterity check. This is just a plus your dexterity bonus.
Liam: Okay. I have Luck. I've got one Luck left. 20.
Matt: You reach out once and grab a section of the cloth and it tears-- and he keeps plummeting. You watch as the stones below-- it's a jagged base of the Salted Bluffs. About ten feet before impact, as his screaming has stopped-- and you grab him and just (whff) right across the surface of the water, but inches! His toes-- the tips of his feet skid across the surface of the water as you (whoosh) and rocket him straight back up towards the top of the cliff. It's going to take you a little while to get up there now.
Liam: Sure.
Matt: Diving is one thing. He is unconscious in your grasp.
Liam: And the Haste is gone by the time I've gone through all that?
Matt: Yeah. So you're slowly flying your way back up. You guys are bent over and you can see the raven wings-- you can't quite see whether or not he got him, but all you see is Vax slowly making his way back towards the top of the cliff.
Taliesin: Should we tell them if he survived? Or do you want to surprise them? I say loudly enough for everybody to hear.
Ashley: Surprise them!
Laura: How about you tell us.
Taliesin: I'm pulling back up. Oh yeah, he's fine.
Ashley: I'm going to walk over to JB. She's tangled?
Matt: She's wrapped up in the rope and she's like (breathing heavily).
Ashley: I'm going to slowly start untangling her.
Matt: "Hi, Pike."
Ashley: Hi, JB. For starters--
Matt: "I'm sorry. I'm sorry."
Ashley: Okay, that's fine. I'm sorry I didn't spend more time with you. But this is unacceptable. This is not how you treat family. And if anything, I hope you learn from this. What do you want? What do you want from me? Tell me and I'll give it to you.
Matt: "I don't care about the money, that's what they wanted. Honestly, I just used this as an excuse to get to see you again. It would have been fine if no one had found out anything. We would have been heroes. We would have had no reason to not be friends again. We would have saved you, as far as you know, from a terrible curse, and maybe that would have-- maybe then I would have been a hero to you. But I'm nothing. I'm a caretaker to a swindler and move around too much to make any real friends, so that's just my lot in life, I guess."
Ashley: It doesn't have to be.
Matt: "That's all I know."
Ashley: But you're very smart. I think there's more for you in this life than you know.
Matt: You can see now, she's just tears now, at this point.
Ashley: I'm going to walk over to Johann and Astra.
Matt: Okay. Yeah, they've let the invisibility down at this point. They're both just entangled. "Oh! There's some sort of misunderstanding here. We were under the impression that there was a terrible curse."
Ashley: "Money?"
Matt: "No! No! We-- Look. Look! Okay. Look, we have been following--"
Marisha: I tighten the grasp on them.
Matt: (squeals) "We've been following that man because he is-- He's my dad. And we're really broke. And we blew through all the money you sent us very quickly. I mean, come on. How much do you guys got? Like ten thousand gold? That's more than we'll see in our lifetime. Drop in the bucket. Changed our life. You would have been fine! You would have been great! You wouldn't have known any better. Our lives would have improved drastically. We would have gone our own way. But maybe stayed for a week! Made you dinner. But here we are. Are we bad? Are we evil? I don't think so. But that's up to you, Miss Priest." At this point, Astra's like, "Shh. Honey, honey! Just calm down." And he's like, "No! No-no-no-no. No. Okay. She can think she's better than us, that's fine. You want to fight the Trickfoot name, that's great. You're still a Trick--"
Marisha: And I go, and down.
Matt: He hits the ground and all you hear is muffled, "But she's still one of us." (laughter)
Matt: And Astra goes, "You did kind of drop a mace on my toe."
Ashley: Oh, I know. That was on purpose.
Matt: "Yeah, I gathered as much."
Ashley: Oh! I'm so mad!
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: Don't rush it. Don't rush it.
Ashley: Where's Ogden?
Matt: You wait another few minutes. It's a long flight up at this point without the Haste. I mean, the winds do help a little bit, because the winds are hitting the cliff and heading upwards. So the updraft does help a bit, but it takes about five or six minutes or so for him to eventually get his way back up to the top. Probably longer than that, even. Then eventually you watch as Vax returns and drops an unconscious, unmoving Ogden onto the rocky cliffside floor.
Liam: Old bugger looks so sweet when he's sleeping.
Ashley: Does he still have the diamond with him?
Matt: Funny thing. When that orb disappeared, and he fell, so did him and the diamond.
Liam: Windmill.
Matt: So he is not with the diamond. The diamond is nowhere to be seen.
Laura: That'll make someone's day, eventually.
Marisha: It was more the principle of the matter.
Ashley: Well, I'm sad.
Laura: Pike? If you send them on their way, think about JB. That's all I ask.
Ashley: Okay. Ogden?
Matt: He's unconscious.
Ashley: You're not listening to me because you're unconscious. (laughter)
Travis: Don't one of you people have the touch?
Ashley: I'm going to go over and backhand his face.
Matt: Okay.
Matt: "I've, uh--" His glasses are gone. His eyes that were once beady are now wide and he's like, "Oh. Hi, Pike."
Ashley: Hi.
Matt: "Hello."
Ashley: Listen.
Matt: "Gotcha!"
Ashley: Yeah. Okay. So this wrecked me. So here's what we're going to do. I'm going to send you guys on your way. I'm going to take out my purse of money. I'm giving you all my money. Stop. Don't say anything. I want you, and I want Astra, and I want Johann to leave and I never want to see you again. JB is going to stay here with me.
Matt: He glances over at JB, who's, right now-- head is down, just looking at the ground. You can see a little bit of moonlight that's coming by, you can see the wet streaks on her cheeks. He goes "That's very, very fair. That's very kind, and very fair."
Ashley: We're going to teach her things. I will put her through school. And her and I together will change the Trickfoot name. But if I ever see any of you again, I will fucking kill you all.
Matt: "As you should! Right, understood loud and clear, young Pike Trickfoot." He takes the coins. "So. Sorry. And how do we get back?"
Laura: You'll find your way. I pat them all down and make sure they didn't steal anything from us on the way out.
Matt: Okay, make an investigation check.
Ashley: Good call.
Laura: Wish I remembered my number. 14.
Matt: 14. Okay. I mean, they're all pretty prostrate at this point. Feeling through Ogden and Astra and Johann, you find about 400 gold worth of silverware. Various other coins.
Ashley: Bastards!
Matt: You find some random odds and ends from the castle that have all been pocketed and hidden in boots. Hidden in hidden pockets.
Laura: What is it with people and our fucking silverware? You can take the money! You can't have the items! These all have very sentimental value, including those fucking dresses you destroyed. You little--
Taliesin: And as a bonus, there is a diamond at the bottom of the cliff, if you're feeling nimble.
Marisha: I release my spell.
Matt: Okay. Entanglement drops. Gets up. "Okay, well. I guess we have a long journey ahead of us, isn't that right, Dad?" And Uncle Ogden is now standing without the hunch and is like, "I believe so. I think we have quite the journey ahead of us."
Travis: We're not killing anything?
Laura: Sinaeth, Grog. Sinaeth.
Marisha: Where did Ogden's staff go when it got jettisoned out of him?
Matt: It's about, maybe, 25 feet this way. It clattered against the rocks here and fell to the ground.
Marisha: I'm going to go gather it real quick.
Matt: Okay, you go and grab it. It's the same gnarled wood still--
Marisha: I'm going to cast Detect Magic on it.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: No. I don't have that. I have Dispel Magic. Hey, Tary?
Sam: Oi! What do you want?
Marisha: Does this look like anything to you? Does this look magical? Can you tell?
Sam: I will Identify it.
Matt: Okay. It is a Staff of Major Image.
Sam: Ooh! That seems useful.
Marisha: Here you go, Tary!
Sam: Ooh! Thank you! This will help make up for the 3500 gold I spent on this fight! (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to walk up to Ogden. Give a little-- When you make it down the hill, you will find your cart outside the city limits in perfect working order, searched for anything else you might have tried to stash away from my city. I'd also like to remind you that the Riflemen have seen your faces up close, and the next time you come anywhere near our castle, you will be shot on sight.
Matt: "Read loud and clear, Percival."
Taliesin: I release a low charge of Diplomacy right into him. Just so we're clear.
Matt: (panting) "Crystal."
Taliesin: Excellent.
Matt: "Well-- despite circumstances, and given that there's no reason to be false, it strangely has been a pleasure to meet you all. And Pike, it's good to see you doing so well for yourself. Come! We're leaving!"
Laura: Oh, and Johann!
Matt: Johann's like, "Uh, yes?"
Laura: Stay away from those sweets.
Matt: "All right?"
Ashley: There actually is a curse on our family. It's called diabetes. (laughter)
Ashley: So watch out.
Travis: Holy shit!
Marisha: There it is!
Matt: And with that, the rest of the Trickfoot family begins to make their long, meandering way down the mountainside, leaving you guys there.
Travis: You dropped a grenade, man. (laughing)
Matt: As you make your way back to Castle Whitestone with JB, we'll pick up that next time, as it's getting really late, and you can't really beat a button like that on an episode. Jesus. All right, guys. We're going to end tonight's session there. Thank you so much for watching. (laughter)
Ashley: Oh man!
Laura: Assholes!
Liam: And they were so tore up to hand over JB! It was like Les Mis.
Laura: I know! They didn't even give a shit!
Liam: "What to do? What to say? Can you carry our treasure away?"
Ashley: I was-- After the last game I was like, I feel so bad I treated them so badly.
Sam: Matt is so good! You played us! Every time! We're so stupid! He was rolling every time-- "Oh, he missed again! Oh! Wow, this guy can't roll real good, can he?"
Travis: Yeah, you fucking son of a bitch! You son of a bitch!
Sam: We were so stupid!
Travis: "Oh, he missed you with advantage? Yeah! He misses you! What's his AC? 12? He misses you!"
Matt: Interesting note, all of the attacks that didn't affect him were all the attacks that Ogden couldn't see happen.
Laura: Right?
Travis: Were you even writing down damage?
Matt: I was! 'Cause I wanted to make it look realistic.
Sam: Oh my God, this guy.
Liam: You're a liar!
Taliesin: How much damage did we do to your little fucking marionette?
Matt: I don't know, a lot.
Travis: "I wrote down numbers!"
Matt: I'm sure Critrolestats has a number of damage that was dealt to the air.
Taliesin: You were just doing the John Stewart bullshit, like "Ah. Ah!"
Matt: I wrote them all down.
Marisha: I'm like, this motherfucker has more hit points than a fucking dragon. What the shit is going on?
Taliesin: Are we healing it? What the hell?
Travis: Yes. Good investigate.
Matt: There was a little part of me-- a little part of me that was wondering, because-- my little hope was that Taryon was going to investigate, I tell him. And then keep it to himself until everything happened and they went off on their own. And then as they were walking away be like, "By the way, that wasn't fucking real." (laughter)
Matt: I could totally see you doing that.
Taliesin: Wow! That I could totally see playing out. I completely believe that you would do that, you son-of-a-bitch.
Sam: I-- How am I getting a "son-of-a-bitch"? He's the son-of-a-bitch! (laughter)
Matt: Anyway, guys, have a wonderful night. Rest well, tomorrow's another day. Pick up, move on.
Ashley: We all have work early, so we're in the same boat.
Matt: Love you all very much. Thanks for coming along with us. And is it Thursday yet? Have a good night. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]